Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2853-MAI 
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 16, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 2853-MAI 
(Second Amendment) 
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 16, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program), dated May 15, 1996, 
(the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program), dated 
April 29, 1997, whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower for 
the purpose of providing support during the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the 
Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
paragraph (i) is amended by substituting “SDR 21,000,000” by 
“SDR 25,100,000”;
(b)
the date in paragraph (k) is amended to read “April 29, 1997”; and
(c)
a new paragraph (l) is added reading:
“(l) “Second Amending Agreement” means the Second Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Fiscal Restructuring and 
Deregulation 
Program) between the Borrower and the Association, dated, 
March 16, 1998.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on  the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-seven million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
77,300,000) (the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-three 
million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,200,000), which 
included an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000) representing an IDA 
Reflow 
allocation made by the Association, (the Initial Financing); (b) 
an additional amount 
in various currencies equivalent to two million 
four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,400,000) (the First 
Additional Financing); and (c) a second 
additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred 
thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000) (the Second Additional Financing).”
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is amended by substituting the phrase “paragraphs (b), (c) 
(d) and (e)” by “paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f)”.
(b)
The following paragraph (f) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 
reading as follows: 
“(f)
After a date twelve months (or such later date as the 
Association shall establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from 
the date of 
the Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made 
from the Credit Account in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing.  At any time after such 
date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing 
from the Credit 
Account or any part thereof.”
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.05 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso 
reading:
“and that any commitment charge on: (A) the First Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending 
Agreement; and (B) the Second Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement.”
Section 1.05. (a) The amount in Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting "21,000,000” 
by “25,100,000”; (b) The “Total” figure in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
Page  3
the Development Credit Agreement is amended by substituting “73,200,000” by 
“77,300,000”.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section.  If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Willie Chokani 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Barbara Kafka 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
