Page  1
August 26, 1998
The Honourable Cassim Chilumpha
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Re: 
Danish Grant for the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
Grant No. TF 020968
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Kingdom of 
Denmark (Denmark), pursuant to agreements, dated May 1, 1997 and June 19, 1998, 
respectively, between IDA and Denmark (the Administration Agreement) to make a grant 
in an amount not exceeding seventy million Danish Kronor (DKK 70,000,000) (the Grant), 
to the Republic of Malawi (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Barbara Kafka
Country Director for Malawi
Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Cassim Chilumpha
Authorized Representative
Date: August 26, 1998
Cleared with & bcc. A. Ahsan, M. Sugar, P. Moll, K. H. Lau,  E. Adu
cc. 
  F. Wright (o/r)
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Program
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to support the Recipient’s program designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Recipient’s economy (the Program).
Page  2
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Program with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) furnish all information covering the Program and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (c) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Program; and (d) 
take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Malawi 
for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of 
the Program a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Program.
3.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3, in support of 
the program.
3.2.
The proceeds of the Grant may be disbursed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.0.2 (b) and (c) of the Development Credit Agreement between the Recipient 
and the IDA for the Program, dated May 15, 1996, as amended. 
3.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3.2 above: no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (b) for payments to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
(Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program) dated May 15, 1996 between the 
Recipient and IDA; or (c) after December 31, 1998, or such later date as IDA shall 
establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).
3.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minster of Finance or such other person as he or she shall have 
authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as IDA shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an amount of 
the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in support of the Program.
3.5.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant. IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this Letter 
Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value 
shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.
Accounts and Audits
4.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Program.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
5.
Suspension and Cancellation
5.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
Page  3
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Malawi, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended.
5.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
