                                                                                                            95246
Results Profile: Russian Health                                                                           March 4, 2010




 GAINS IN HEALTH

 In Russia, Making Progress Against Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS




Overview
Russian men and women face far shorter life expectancies than people in developed countries
-- as much as 14 years shorter than their neighbors in Europe. Since 2003, Russian
authorities, local institutions, and international partners have worked together to address the
social problems and institutional constraints contributing to Russia's poor health profile, yielding
significant results, particularly in fighting tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.

  Full Brief—6 Pages
Meeting Health Challenges in the Russian Federation—PDF, April 2010


Challenge
Russian men and women today have a combined life
                                                                       More Results
expectancy of 66, about 14 years below the life expectancy
of those in the European Union. High mortality and morbidity

                                                                      72.7%
rates are caused primarily by non-communicable diseases
(e.g., heart disease, strokes, cancer) and injuries, mostly
from road traffic crashes. These are influenced by the aging
of the population, urbanization, changing lifestyles, and risky       increase in TB patients receiving
                                                                      standardized treatment
behaviors, including smoking, alcohol abuse, poor nutrition,
and sedentary lifestyles.

At the same time, since the early 1990s, factors including            MORE INFORMATION
poverty, under-funding of health services, and technical                Feature Story: Reforms Put
inadequacies have also contributed to Russia having one of              Russia on Path to Better Health
the highest rates of tuberculosis (TB) in the world. This has
                                                                        Website: Stopping Epidemics,
been aggravated by the spread of multi-drug resistant TB
                                                                        Saving Lives
and HIV/AIDS.
                                                                        Website: HIV/AIDS in the
                                                                        Russian Federation 
Approach                                                                Feature: Is Health Reform
Since 2003, the International Bank for Reconstruction and               Possible in the Russian
                                                                        Federation?
Development (IBRD) has financed two federal-level
investment projects in the health sector in Russia. A                 The Fight Against TB in Russia
TB/AIDS Control Project developed policies and guidelines in
line with international standards for prevention, diagnosis,
treatment and follow-up of patients with TB and HIV,
targeting both civilians and prisoners. A health reform project    
tested new approaches to restructuring the organization of
health service delivery, and a third project, in partnership
with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), is building capacity to prevent and treat
cardiovascular diseases and injuries.
Results
TB mortality in the total population decreased by 15.4 percent from 2006 to 2007, and among
prisoners - the most affected group - TB deaths dropped by 37.5 percent. There was also a
72.7 percent increase in TB patients receiving the standardized treatment regimen, including
directly observed treatment.

The rate of increase in HIV prevalence dropped by 7.7 percent between 2006 and 2008. HIV-
positive infants born to HIV-infected women decreased from 13.6 percent to 9.8 percent
between 2004 and 2008.

Health service improvements contributed to decreased infant mortality rates and increased life
expectancy of the population (above the average in the country) in the Chuvash Republic and
Voronezh Oblast—the pilot regions under the health reform project.




       The best way to tell this story is by the results. During the last
    five years of its implementation the project helped reduce TB
    prevalence rate by 20 percent and TB mortality rate by 33
    percent in the institutions of the Federal Correction Service. By
    the end of 2008 overall implementation of the TB/AIDS Control
    Project resulted in increasing coverage of TB patients by
    bacteriological tests up to 95 percent.  
           —Svetlana G. Safonova, Chief, Medical Administration of
              the Federal Correction Service (Prisons) of the Russian
                              Federation, Doctor of biological sciences


Toward the Future
Russia's Health Reform Implementation Project, initially funded as a 2003-2008 pilot project in
Chuvash Republic and Voronezh Oblast, along with support at the federal level, tested new
approaches to restructuring health service delivery in the region, for later replication in other
regions. This project will continue in Chuvash Republic under a new, $7 million subnational
loan provided by IFC and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
The second phase will focus on building service delivery capacity to address cardiovascular
disease and injuries, the leading causes of death and disability in the region.

Additionally, the Bank will continue to provide technical advice to the regional governments on
a fee-for-service basis, while sub-national lending will help restructure organization of health
service delivery. The use of these new mechanisms is highly relevant to other middle-income
countries.


Partners
The World Bank has worked with a number of international partners on health sector
improvement in Russia, including the World Health Organization, UNAIDS, Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Canadian International Development Agency, US
Agency for International Development, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
International Transport Forum, OECD, U.K Department of Health, Public Health Agency of
Canada, Finland National Institute for Health, Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use, and
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

 
