Document of                              flsirOMf
The World Bank                   FILE CuOr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2675-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 20, 1979
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =      Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 9.90           =     US$1
Rs 1.00           =     US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million   =      US$101,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Mile            =     1.6093 Kilometer (km)
1 Foot            =     0.3048 Meter (m)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Organizations:
GOP            -    Government of Pakistan
IDBP           -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
NWFP           -    North West Frontier Province
MOC            -    Ministry of Communications
NTRC           -    National Transport Research Center
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Programme
Technical
ADT            -    Average Daily Traffic
DWT            -    Deadweight Tons
POL            -    Petroleum Oil and Lubricants
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Communications; Provinces of Baluchistan
and North West Frontier; and the Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).
Amount:            US$50.0 million
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  About $1.7 million of the Credit would be relent to the
Provinces on the same terms as the IDA Credit, and $5
million would be relent to IDBP with interest at 8%
p.a. and with a flexible amortization schedule in approx-
imate accordance with the aggregate maturities of the
sub-loans. The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk, for which IDBP sub-borrowers will pay a fee of
2% p.a.
Project           -
Description:    The project is designed to prevent deterioration of vital
sections of Pakistan's road system and consists of the
following main components:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of up to about 280 km
of national and provincial roads;
(b) maintenance of national and provincial roads; and
(c) assistance to the domestic construction industry.
The benefits will accrue mostly in savings on vehicle
operating costs and will be widely distributed. The
project involves no special risks.
Th docunwnt hs a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutica. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                      US$ million
Local Foreign Total
Road Rehabilitation          41.1    19.0       60.1
Road Maintenance               0.3     2.0       2.3
Domestic Construction
Industry                     -       5.1       5.1
Project Preparation           2.7      0.4       3.1
44.1    26.5      70.6
Contingencies:
Quantity                    4.2      2.0       6.2
Price                      11.1      5.3      16.4
Total Project Costs
(including $10.8 million
in taxes)                 59.4    33.8      93.2
Financing Plan:                                    US$ million
IDA                                 50.0
UNDP                                 0.1
Government                          43.1
Total                           93.2
Estimated
Disbursements:            IDA FY    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
---------- $ million -----------
Annual              2.5    17.0   18.5    9.0    3.0
Cumulative          2.5    19.5   38.0   47.0   50.0
Rate of Return:   about 50%.
Appraisal Report: No. 2470-PAK, dated December 20, 1979.
Map:               IBRD 14188R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$50.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a third highway project.
Technical assistance amounting to US$144,000 is being provided by UNDP.
About US$1.7 million would be made available to the Provinces of Baluchistan
and North West Frontier on the same terms as the IDA credit and US$5.0 million
would be relent to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) at 8%
per annum interest with a flexible amortization schedule in approximate
accordance with the aggregate maturities of the sub-loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Fifth Plan Review" (No. 2394-PAK, dated April 12, 1979) was distributed
to the Executive Director<; on April 18, 1979.
3.        Economic performance during most of the 1970s has compared unfavor-
ably with the record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s.
GDP has grown at about 4.0% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6%
during the 1960s, and rapid population growth has meant that there has been
little increase in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at
about 2.5-3.0% per annum -- and GDP itself achieved a growth rate of 4% only
as a result of expansion in construction, government and service industries.
During the last two years, however, a more rapid upturn in GDP exports and
agricultural output has taken place, although some major crops have continued
to suffer setbacks.
4.        To a considerable degree the disappointing performance in the 1970s
has been due to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control.
The decade began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of
Bangladesh, and there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes
which undermined the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in
1974/75 and serious floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum
crisis and the subsequent world recession. Moreover, political instability
and uncertainty have continued to have serious economic implications. However,
the policy response to these problems has also in many respects been inade-
quate, contributing significantly to the economy's disappointing performance.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Third WAPDA Power Project (No. P-2663-PAK,
dated November 29, 1979).



-2-
Changing attitudes to the private sector, illustrated by a series of national-
izations that began in 1972, had a depressing effect on private investment,
while legislation served to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a
time of other cost increases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major
increases in public investment have more than offset declining private invest-
ment, but public investment has been concentrated in capital-intensive,
long-gestation projects which in many cases have yet to result in increased
production. This investment contributed to a massive deterioration in the
trade account, itself aggravated by Government policies designed to protect
the consumer from the implications of stagnating production. To finance
imports, and to cover serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government
resorted to heavy borrowing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC
countries during the mid-1970s. Workers' remittances have increased very
substantially over the last few years, but a very large trade deficit and
rising debt repayments have imposed a serious strain on the balance of pay-
ments while the problem of domestic resource mobilization has continued to
constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The issue price of wholemeal wheat
flour to the public was recently increased by 25%, an important step towards
reducing the high level of subsidies. The agricultural processing industries
(except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized, the area open
to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and tax incentives
(especially for export) have been improved and improvements have been recorded
in the labor situation. Agricultural support prices have been maintained, and
in some cases increased, and an effort is being made to improve input avail-
ability and other supporting services to the farmer. Finally, a review of
Government investment and related priorities was undertaken in the context of
the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan which, while still over-optimistic
in many of its projections, recognizes the need to redirect the pattern of
economic development away from large public industrial and other long gesta-
tion projects and towards the agricultural and social sectors.
6.        These measures have in part been responsible for the first major
upturn in the economy since the FY73/FY74 commodity boom. GDP rose by 6%
during FY78 and at a similar rate in FY79; and exports, in real terms, by
11% and 29% respectively. Nevertheless, despite some favorable developments,
prospects for future growth remain uncertain. For the immediate future, this
uncertainty relates to worrying trends in the overall financial management of
the economy. Several tax and tariff increases which were announced in the
FY80 budget have somewhat improved the budgetary outlook; but the external
payments position has continued to deteriorate, with increasing dependence
on short-term borrowing and reserves drawn down to undesirably low levels.
For the longer term, the most disturbing features are continued low levels of
productivity in agriculture, the lack of any significant recovery in private
investment and the rapid growth in population.
7.        Despite the fact that the economic situation provides little room
for maneuver, and despite tqe policy changes that have already taken place,



-3-
further measures appear essential if the basic issues limiting economic growth
in the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues include the
farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure
and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind conti-
nued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expendi-
tures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises and
the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues
and the problems of public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two-thirds of total exports. Repeated set-
backs in agriculture have undermined growth and thrown doubt on the input-
based strategies followed in recent years. The FY78 wheat crop was attacked
by rust and, for this and other reasons, declined by 10%. This setback
fortunately was temporary and a sharp recovery in wheat output was recorded in
FY79. Also of concern have been the persistent problems besetting cotton;
production in FY79 fell to 2.7 million bales compared to nearly 4 million in
the early 1970s. However, the current crop, not yet fully harvested, is
said to be encouraging and likely to reach 3.6 million bales. Rice production
in FY80, similarly in the process of being harvested, is also said to be good.
The sugar crop, on the other hand, has been poor recently, and it-is clear
that despite encouraging signs a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Thus, while considerable
potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs,
it appears also essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary
policies and programs which have a direct impact at the farm level. Major
improvements are possible in the water delivery system and in the general
level of agricultural practices; high priority therefore needs to be given to
water management programs and to projects designed to establish a systematic
and effective research and extension service. Without such initiatives,
agricultural growth in the longer term will suffer and the benefits from the
available inputs and resources will remain well below their technical potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to little over 2% during most of the 1970s, although since the present Gov-
ernment came to power there has been some recovery in both manufacturing
value added and exports. The major structural change in the industrial sector
since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10% to about
25% of industrial assets. Private investment declined markedly as a result
of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems, adverse export
market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The textile industry,
in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added in large-scale
industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a
lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing growth
generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector enter-
prises. A recovery in world markets and export incentives have together



- 4 -
contributed to a recent revival in yarn exports, but a more fundamental
improvement in industrial investment depends on a period of reasonably pro-
longed stability and a shift in the overall balance of production towards
higher value added products which are responsive to market opportunities and
preferences. Also important will be progress in, and results from, oil
exploration for which there appears to be considerable potential.
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 and to an estimated 10.3% in FY79,
while non-development expenditures more than trebled. Public sector savings
declined, and indeed were negative from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered
and remain marginally positive. The scope for non-inflationary domestic
borrowing has been limited and financing public expenditures has become
heavily dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing. Foreign assistance
financed no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76 although this
fell to 53% in FY79 because of a decline in aid disbursements. To improve
domestic resource mobilization, additional taxation and improvements in tax
administration are needed; non-development expenditures must be restrained)
possibly through selective reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of
public enterprises should be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases.
Given the limits to domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on
increasing revenues and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential
to limit the size and adjust the content of the public investment program.
Emphasis needs to be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and
other areas where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports
appear possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected
in recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long-gestation projects should be reduced.



12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East; these rose
from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77, to US$1,166 million
in FY78 and to an estimated US$1,400 million in FY79. This increase has, how-
ever, been more than offset by a massive deterioration in the trade balance
with the result that the current account deficit increased from about US$130
million in FY73 to more than US$1,000 million in FY75. The huge increase in
remittances reduced the cuarrent account deficit to US$600 million in FY78 but
the deficit again rose to over US$1 billion in FY79, largely due to a 30%
increase in the value of imports, itself in part the consequence of last
year's poor wheat crop. While suspension of debt payments to Iran, short-term
borrowing and a run down in international reserves kept the external sector
manageable in FY79, the options for FY80 are much more limited. Scheduled
debt service will rise substantially and net aid flows--according to Government
figures--will remain at only about US$350 million. Allowing for a somewhat
lower current account deficit than expected by the Government, a US$200 million
loan from Saudi Arabia to the Zakat Fund, and additional short-term financing,
the gap remaining to be financed appears to be in the region of US$200 million.
Foreign exchange reserves at present are very low and will remain tight unless
additional resources (e.g., from the IMF, debt relief or quick-disbursing
non-project aid) become available.
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY79 amounted
to about US$7.2 billion of which US$4.1 billion was due to bilateral members
of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.1 billion to OPEC, US$1.2 billion to multi-
lateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders.
Contractual debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from
US$313 million in FY73 to US$397 in FY78 although the burden of these payments
was eased to US$200 and US$261 million respectively as a result of debt relief
arrangements. The four-yiear debt relief agreement with Consortium countries
expired on June 30, 1978, and as no further agreement was reached debt service
payments rose sharply in ]FY79. Contractual payments in FY80 are expected to
amount to over US$600 million and considerably more in subsequent years. As
a proportion of exports, non-factor service payments and workers' remittances,
debt service rose from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in
FY79. Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to
borrow to meet future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to
a minimum. For this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently con-
fined to IDA credits. Pa]kistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY78
was about 15% of its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank
Group in total debt service is now about 9%.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be
accompanied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was
achieved during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy
adjustment, but it is clear that a wide range of further initiatives are
necessary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing
performance over much of the 1970s. Only if these new policies and programs



-6-
are pursued consistently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term
improvements in living standards for the population as a whole be established.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. Through FY78, 38% of total commitments were for
public services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for
industrial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has
amounted to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommu-
nications and water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture
was for Indus Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through
the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most
projects for which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now
going ahead satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are
that the rates charged by some of the public services have not kept pace
with inflation and, hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns.
Annex II contains a stunmary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
November 30, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
4p#rt of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
prigram to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.



-7-
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the prolIect cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases.
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Projects under appraisal include
a further credit to PICIC and a vocational education project. Preparatory
work is proceeding on a Karachi bulk water supply project, a grain storage
project, and a further irrigation and drainage project.
20.       IFC has made investments in eleven Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$63.6 million, of which US$54.2 million was by way of loans and US$9.5
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$29.4
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also
a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       A wide range of transport modes, ranging from camel caravan to jet
aircraft, is represented in Pakistan. The principal transport system encom-
passes about 40,000 kilometers of national and provincial roads, 8,800 kilo-
meters of railroads, four major airports, one major port and a gas pipeline
transmission system.  The transport services are operated by the Government-
owned Pakistan Railways (PR), National Shipping Corporation (NSC) and Pakistan
International Airlines (PIA), four provincially owned bus companies, two gas
transmission companies and numerous private road transporters for both goods
and passengers. Major products transported include wheat, rice, cement,
fertilizer and petroleum.
22.       The growth in traffic in the transport sector has been faster than
the growth in GDP, particularly for passenger traffic. Domestic freight
transport during the period 1971/72 to 1977/78 grew at a 5.6% annual rate,



- 8 -
compared with the GDP growth rate of 4%, while passenger traffic increased
at a 9.9% rate. The road subsector is the dominant mode of transport and
its share is increasing.
23.       Railroads.  The Pakistan railway system connects most of the major
cities throughout the country, as well as having connections with India, Iran
and Afghanistan. Although traffic has varied from year to year, the trend
appears to be that of declining revenue-tons while ton-kilometers are increas-
ing. The rising average haul distance is the result of road competition.
POL, wheat, cement and rice comprise over 50% of railway traffic. Passenger
traffic has steadily increased during the 1970's by about 3% p.a. and passenger
kilometers by about 8%.
24.       Pakistan Railways' (PR) operating performance deteriorated during
the 1960's and early 1970's, but has since stabilized. Major issues involve
the rationalization of passenger and freight service, uneconomical branch
lines, improvement of maintenance and financial viability. To improve opera-
tions, particularly in the transport of cargo, PR initiated a major program
in 1975 to rationalize services. An action plan with specific operational
targets was agreed with the Bank in connection with the Tenth Railway Project
(Loan 1372-PAK/Credit 684-PAK of March 8, 1977).
25.       Ports.  Karachi Port, wlhich is operated by the Karachi Port Trust
(KPT), is presently Pakistan's only international port. Port Qasim, a new
port some 20 miles from Karachi, is being constructed with assistance from
the Asian Development Bank and bilateral donors, to primarily serve a steel
mill which is under construction. For several years prior to 1978, there had
been little increase in KPT's traffic, reflecting the modest growth of the
Pakistan economy and a reduction in wheat imports during the 1970s. Because
of a rust attack on the domestic wheat crop during FY78, wheat imports reached
an all-time high of over two million tons and dry cargo handled approached
eight million tons in FY79. Despite the construction of three new and re-
construction of seven existing berths with the assistance of one Bank loan
and two IDA credits, KPT's operational performance during the 1970s showed
little improvement. The decline has been attributed to decasualization of
dock labor, physical congestion and slow cargo removal. During the last two
years, however, KPT has taken a number of measures to improve efficiency,
and the Government has recently approved a substantial tariff increase.
26.       Shipping.  Pakistan has an aging (average 15 years) fleet of about
250,000 DWT, which in FY78 carried about one million tons of general cargo
and 0.6 million tons of dry bulk cargo, amounting to about 30% of dry cargo
shipments. All liquid bulk shipments are carried in foreign fleets. To
improve operational efficiency, the two Government-owned shipping companies
are being merged, and the Government is entering into bilateral financing
agreements for the replacement of obsolete vessels.
27.       Civil Aviation.  Pakistan has four major airports--Karachi, Rawal-
pindi, Lahore and Peshawar. International as well as domestic service is
provided by the Government-controlled Pakistan International Airlines (PIA).
Since 1972, PIA's passenger kilometers have grown at an average annual



rate of 28% and ton-kilometers at 23%. PIA has greatly benefitted from
the substantial migration of Pakistan workers to the Middle East where its
services are heavily concentrated. Its operations are well managed and
profits have been increasing during the last four years. PIA is purchasing
a number of additional aircraft to provide for the expected continued rapid
growth in traffic.
28.       Pipelines.  Pakistan's existing pipeline network is principally for
the transmission and distribution of natural gas. In addition, construction
of an oil pipeline from Karachi to Multan is now in progress.  rhe Bank has
assisted the development of the gas pipeline system since 1954 through five
projects. During the 1970s, gas consumption increased at an annual rate of
7.3% and is projected to increase in the next five years at a rate of 10%.
Future expansion of the pipeline system will depend mainly on the commercial
possibilities for developing oil and associated gas in existing and newly
discovered oil fields.
29.       Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination.  Responsibility for
transportation is divided among four federal ministries. The Ministry of
Communications is responsible for roads and road transport, shipping and
ports; the Ministry of Railways for railroads; the Ministry of Defense
for civil aviation; and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
for pipelines. In the case of roads, responsibility is further subdivided
among the four provincial governments. To provide a basis for developing
rational transport policies and planning, a transport coordination study
was carried out in 1971 with financing from the Second Highway Project
(Loan 578-PAK). As recommended by the study, the Government established
a National Transport Research Center (NTRC) in 1975 which concentrates
on multi-modal transport research and coordinates the research work of the
ministries. The Government's general strategy during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (FY78-82), which is cconsistent with the recommendations of the study,
is (a) to emphasize improved utilization and modernization of existing
facilities in order to increase capacity; (b) to promote the integration
of different modes of transport; and (c) to give high priority to completion
of ongoing schemes. About 23% of the Fifth Plan investments is for the
transportation sector.
The Highway Sector_ _
30.       Pakistan has a principal road network of about 40,000 km of which
23,500 km have bituminous surfacing. Nearly 50% of the paved roads are in
Punjab, which is located in the heart of the Indus Basin and contains over 50%
of the country's population; Baluchistan, the largest but least populated
province, has about 20% of the paved roads. Most of the remaining roads in
the principal network are gravel surfaced and provide all weather access. In
addition to the main network, there are some 40,000-60,000 km of earth roads
which provide access to the rural areas during the dry season.
31.       The principal roads link most of Pakistan's cities and industrial
productive areas, but present transport demands are not economically met as
most roads are narrow and have inadequate pavement strengths, leading to



- 10 -
failures on major roads. On the main roads, traffic volumes are high, ranging
from 2,500 to 4,000 average daily traffic (ADT); on secondary roads, traffic
volumes of 400-800 ADT are common. About 70% of the traffic volume in rural
areas is heavy traffic (trucks 50% and buses 20%). Based on traffic count,
fuel consumption and vehicle registration data, average traffic growth appears
to be of the order of 7-8% per year.
32.       Road transportation competes mostly with the railroads.  As road
transport develops, the railways are increasingly concentrating on carrying
long distance bulk commodities. Trucking routes and rates are unregulated
and the road haulage industry is competitive. Most trucks are privately
owned, with many small firms and a large number of driver-operators.  The
8-ton capacity truck is the common vehicle used, although in the last few
years small 3/4-ton trucks have become popular. Bus rates and routes are
regulated, but there is freedom of entry except in urban areas.
33.       Administration, Organization and Training.  Until January 1978,
the Ministry of Communications (MOC) was responsible for general uniformity
of highways standards and allocation of federal government funds to the
provinces. All major roads were in the provincial domain, and the provin-
cial highway departments carried out all construction and maintenance. In
January 1978, a total of 3,500 km of major routes were designated as national
highways, for which MOC assumed responsibility for improvement and maintenance.
However, as MOC has no maintenance and construction organization, the pro-
vincial highway departments have continued to carry out work on national
highways as agents of MOC. To assist MOC in its supervisory and planning
role, a Directorate General of National Highways has been formed to monitor
and inspect work on the national highways. District councils are responsible
for the upkeep of minor unsurfaced "kacha" roads.
34.       Although the organizational structure for the sector is sound,
losses of experienced engineers are causing management problems, while poor
discipline and shortages of equipment and funds result in poor productivity.
For the most part training has been on the job, using apprenticeships methods.
A small number of administrators have participated in international seminars
and workshops. Some bilateral donors have provided technical assistance.
In addition to technical assistance for specific tasks within the proposed
project, a more formalized training program will accompany the introduction
of maintenance equipment (see paragraph 52).
35.       Planning and Finance.  One of the main conclusions of the 1971
transport coordination study was that emphasis should be placed on the
rehabilitation and improvement of existing roads. This is reflected in
the current Five-Year Plan. Construction of the new Indus Highway, which
would have absorbed over 30% of the highway allocations for the Five-Year
Plan period, will not be carried out during the Plan period and the Associa-
tion will be given the opportunity to review and comment on the Government's
future highway investment plans (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Until recently, provision of maintenance funds was one of the
most serious problems. In 1978, the maintenance allocation averaged about
Rs 5,000 or US$500 per km for paved roads, an amount allowing little more



- 11 -
than the payment of permanent staff, routine maintenance and emergency repairs.
For FY80 funds allocated for national highways have been increased by about
60% over the previous year, close to the desirable target figure of about
Rs 12,000 per km at current prices. Allocations for provincial needs have
also been increased by 20% over the previous year. The Government intends
to further increase maintenance allocations and to maintain them at an
adequate level, and will consult with IDA yearly on the budget allocations.
36.       Structural Overloading.  The rapid rise in road traffic in the last
two decades has exceeded both the traffic capacity and pavement strength of
many parts of Pakistan's rcad system. Widespread vehicle overloading, together
with inadequate maintenance, is already causing serious damage to major
highways and, if allowed to continue, may result in the loss of whole sections
of the highway system. The situation was aggravated recently when, following
last year's wheat crop failure, large quantities of imported wheat and other
key commodities had to be moved upcountry by the National Logistics Cell
(NLC). With the passing of the emergency, NLC truck loads will be limited to
11 tons during the dry season and 5-1/2 tons during the wet season. To assist
the Government in formulating long-term measures, it will carry out a study by
September 30, 1980 of alternative methods of dealing with vehicle overloading,
and commence by March 31, 21981 implementation of an action plan satisfactory
to the Association in accordance with an agreed timetable (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       The Domestic Construction Industry.  There are a large number of
contractors in Pakistan but the great majority are small and act mainly as
suppliers of labor. At the upper end of the scale there are a few, includ-
ing several quasi-government organizations, who have substantial amounts of
equipment and can handle contracts upto several million US dollars annually.
Between these limits there are several dozen firms that can handle contracts
of about US$1 million annually. However, contractors have generally more
experience in building construction than in highway work, and few have high-
way construction equipment apart from some locally made rollers. Contractors
surveyed in a study of the construction industry carried out under a Bank-
financed project have indicated that they would be prepared to invest in
equipment to enlarge their operations providing they had some assurance of
continuing work and reasonable credit terms. Few contractors are able to
provide immovable security to satisfy the lending requirements of financial
institutions. The Government wants to encourage the development of a private
road construction industry and, to increase the availability of credit to
contractors for purchase of equipment, project funds will be allocated to
the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan for onlending to contractors.
38.       First and Second Highway Projects.  The Bank Group has previously
financed two highway projects in Pakistan, as well as a technical assistance
credit. The first project: (Credit 54 for US$17 million in 1964) encompassed
(i) engineering and construction of a new 142 km highway between Karachi and
Hyderabad; (ii) design and construction of three major bridges; and (iii)
consultant services. According to the Project Performance Audit Report dated
March 12, 1976, implementation of the project was generally satisfactory.



- 12 -
Only a small cost overrun (7%) was incurred and construction was completed
mostly on schedule. With the larger than projected increase in traffic, the
Karachi-Hyderabad Highway now needs an overlay, work on which will commence
by June 30, 1980 and should be completed by June 30, 1984 (Section 3.07(c)) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). A loan of US$35 million was made in
1968 for the Second Highway Project, following an engineering credit of US$1.0
million in 1966 for the preparation of the project. The project consisted of
construction of two trunk highways, assistance in reorganizing the Highway
Department and the preparation of a transport coordination study. Engineering
was substantially delayed and when bids were called in 1970 the cost of the
project was three times the original estimate. After attempts to reconstitute
the project with less ambitious investments, the Government and the Bank
agreed in July 1971 to cancel the uncommitted balance of US$33.9 million. The
transport coordination study was satisfactory and appeared to have an impact
on Government policy.   In preparing the proposed project, the Government has
taken into account the problems experienced with the earlier projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Third Highway Project Cell
of the MOC. Six domestic firms participated in the preparation of the fea-
sibility and technical studies coordinated by a foreign firm. The project
was appraised in November 1978. Negotiations for the proposed credit took
place in Washington during August 1979. The Pakistan Delegation was headed
by Mr. Masud Mufti, Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs Division. A Staff
Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan: Third Highway Project" (Report No.
2470-PAK, dated December 20, 1979) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Additional data on the project are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
40.       The general objective of the project is to assist the development
of the road transportation sector so that it can effectively meet the
transport demands of the directly productive sectors of the economy. More
specifically the project objectives are to: (a) rehabilitate high-priority
roads; (b) improve road maintenance capabilities at both federal and pro-
vincial levels; (c) encourage the development of domestic consulting and
contracting industries; and (d) improve project planning and administration.
Project Description
41.       The project consists of three main components:  (a) rehabilitation
and improvement of up to about 280 km of national and provincial roads;
(b) maintenance of national and provincial roads; and (c) assistance to the
domestic construction industry. Included in these components are technical
assistance and training. In addition, funds are allocated for the preparation
of a future project in order to provide continuity for rehabilitation and
improvement works.



- 13 -
42.       Road Rehabilitation and Improvement:  In 1976 a Third Highway
Project Cell was established within the MOC to prepare the present project.
Six domestic consulting firms were contracted to undertake feasibility and
technical studies for the rehabilitation and improvement of 1600 km of
national and provincial roads which had been jointly identified by IDA and
Government officials. To support the development of the domestic consulting
industry and to strengthen project planning, a foreign consulting firm was
contracted to provide technical assistance to the Project Cell for the co-
ordination of the preparation studies. While rehabilitation was economically
feasible on almost all selected road sections, only about 280 km of the
highest priority sections are included in the present project because of
resource constraints.
43.       The road sections selected include those which are in most serious
danger of failure on or near the main trunk road from Karachi to Peshawar.
During the past monsoon season many portions of this road were completely
closed to traffic for periods of several days until emergency repairs could
be made. The road sections selected for rehabilitation and improvement are:
Road Section          Province   Classification    Length (km)
Peshawar-Charsadda        NWFP         Provincial          28
Khairabad-Nowshera        NWFP         National            29
Part of Lahore-Sahiwal   Punjab        National    up to 125
Part of Rohri Kandiaro   Sind          National    up to 100
Total                                                 282
The proposed rehabilitation work consists mainly of raising the existing
roads in low areas, widening where width is substandard, pavement strengthen-
ing and resurfacing. The roads will generally be widened to the standard
width of 7.3 m with asphaltic concrete surfacing.
44.       Supervision is expected to be carried out by the domestic consulting
firms which undertook the final designs, with assistance from the Coordinating
Consultant attached to the Third Highway Project Cell which has recently been
incorporated into the National Highway Board. The Coordinating Consultant
Team will consist of a tetam leader and two superintending resident engineers.
In addition, the assistarnce of a soils engineer and paving specialist is
needed to establish quality control for the rehabilitation works.
45.       Road Maintenance.  On the national highway system, the Federal Gov-
ernment has undertaken f:?nancial and administrative responsibility for road
maintenance and delegated the execution of the maintenance work to the pro-
vinces. As part of the Plroject, the Ministry of Communications plans to
establish a monitoring system to supervise and administer the national highway
system. The technical assistance team attached to the Third Highway Project
Cell would support these efforts. In addition, a periodic road maintenance
unit will be established at the federal level for training provincial highway



- 14 -
and contractor personnel. A study to consider alternative methods of dealing
with vehicle overloading will be undertaken and an action program to address
this problem will be formulated and carried out (paragraph 36).
46.       At the provincial level, project emphasis will be concentrated
on improving periodic road maintenance in order to arrest further deterio-
ration. One maintenance unit similar to the Federal unit will be provided
to NWFP, while in Baluchistan the equipment proposed will serve to improve
the efficiency of the present overlay program being carried out on main
routes and of regraveling on unsurfaced routes. Technical assistance will
be provided to help operate the soils and materials laboratories and improve
planning and design in both NWFP and Baluchistan, and for workshop operation
in Baluchistan.
47.       Domestic Road Construction Industry.  An independent and technically
qualified construction industry would greatly assist the Government in the
execution of its development plans. Assistance will be channeled through the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), which will receive US$5 mil-
lion of the IDA credit to enable contractors to acquire construction equip-
ment to undertake the rehabilitation and improvement of Project roads. The
same facility will be extended to domestic contractors to carry out periodic
maintenance works. In addition, IDBP is being assisted by a road construction
specialist provided by the UNDP. His function is to advise and assist IDBP
with its subprojects to the road construction industry. He will also assist
contractors, in particular in the utilization of equiment, and make recommend-
ations to IDBP, GOP and IDA for further improvements to the domestic con-
struction industry.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project, including taxes of US$10.8 million
equivalent, is estimated at US$93 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$34 million (36%). A summary of the cost estimates is shown in the Credit
and Project Summary. The proposed IDA credit of US$50.0 million will finance
about 60% of the total cost excluding taxes and duties. Included in this
amount is US$1.0 million retroactive financing for project preparation work.
In addition to IDA financing, the UNDP has agreed to finance technical assist-
ance to IDBP amounting to US$144,000 for the IDBP road contruction advisor.
A project document for this specialist was signed during March 1979. The
remaining project costs amounting to about US$43 million would be met by the
Government.
49.       The costs of road rehabilitation and improvement are based on bids
received in July 1979. The US$5.0 million allocation to IDBP for loans to the
domestic construction industry is based on an estimate of the likely number
of domestic contractors who will be awarded contracts and their likely equip-
ment needs. Estimates for equipment and technical assistance are based on
recent prices for similar items and on recent technical assistance proposals
respectively, both under similar circumstances. The total cost of providing
101 man-months of technical assistance to the National Highway Board is esti-
mated to be about US$880,000 or an average of about US$8,300 per man-month



- 15 -
in the field. In addition, technical assistance to the Provincial Highway
Departments in NWFP and Baluchistan and to IDBP totals about 78 man-months
costing about US$500,000. A quantity contingency of 5% has been added on
equipment and spares and 10% on all other items except project preparation
studies and assistance to the domestic construction industry. For price in-
creases on foreign exchange items, an annual increase of 6% has been allowed
on equipment and 7% on other items. On local costs, a 15% annual increase
has been allowed in 1979, 12% in 1980 and 10% in 1981 and 1982 1/.
Project Implementation
50.       The project will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Communications. Within the Ministry, the Directorate General of National
Highways will execute and coordinate the various project activities. IDBP
will be responsible for relending funds to domestic road contractors.
Technical assistance will be provided to assist in the execution of various
project components.
51.       Letters of Intent have been issued to the successful local firms or
joint enterprises beween 'Local and foreign firms for the various road sections.
The award of the civil works contracts will be completed before credit effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
works in NWFP are expected to be completed in two years. The other larger
road sections between Lahore and Sahiwal in Punjab and the Kandiaro Rohri
in Sind are expected to be completed in three years. Supervision by the
Coordinating Consultants, whose contract has been agreed with the Government
for signature in January 1980, will start immediately. Construction supervi-
sion by domestic consultants will commence ahead of the start of construction.
In both cases, allowances will be made for supervision and inspection during
the maintenance period after construction is completed.
52.       Road Maintenance.  A monitoring system for the National Highways
will be implemented before March 31, 1980, (Section 4.02(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement), with the help of the technical assistance team
to the Directorate General of National Highways. Specifications for the
maintenance equipment for MOC, NWFP and Baluchistan will be prepared by the
Directorate General of National Highways with the assistance of the Coordinat-
ing Consultant. The Government will by June 30, 1980, prepare a periodic road
maintenance program, satisfactory to IDA, and will commence implementation
of the program by December 31, 1980. About 160 men, including contractors'
personnel, will be trained in road maintenance operations and equipment main-
tenance over the project period within a training program satisfactory to the
Association to commence by December 31, 1980 (Section 4.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
1/   This is based on projected cost increases in the construction industry
which are higher than projected increases in the general price level.



- 16 -
Domestic Construction Industry
53.       IDA funds will be relent to IDBP at 8% p.a. interest with a flexi-
ble amortization schedule in approximate accordance with the aggregate
maturities of the sub-loans. The lending rate to sub-borrowers would be the
normal foreign exchange lending rate in Pakistan, at present 11% p.a., which
would give IDBP a spread of 3%. The Government will carry the foreign exchange
risk, for which sub-borrowers will pay a special fee of 2% p.a. Lending to the
domestic construction industry will be a new type of business for IDBP, and
the following special security arrangements will be adopted: (a) the equip-
ment to be financed would be hypothecated to IDBP; (b) IDBP would receive
outside collateral for 50% of the financed amount; (c) instalments due to IDBP
would be deducted by the Government from payments to contractors; (d) liens in
favor of IDBP would be established over contractors' deposits (e.g., retention
money); and (e) a no-objection certificate from IDBP would be required to take
financed machinery out of the country. In case the allocated funds to IDBP
were not fully committed after 18 months to contractors of the Third Highway
Project, funds could be lent to domestic contractors engaged in other road
works in Pakistan.
54.       Preparation for Future Project.  The Directorate General of National
Highways, through domestic consultants assisted by the Coordinating Consultant,
will prepare studies for a future project. Since final designs already exist
for nearly 600 km of road and a road investment survey is now being undertaken,
future project studies will not start for about 18 months. At that time, if
the roads for which designs have already been prepared are not in execution,
cost estimates will be updated. In addition, other road sections may be
included or substituted with the approval of the Association.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Procurement under the various project components is as follows:
(a) road rehabilitation and improvement contracts were tendered on the basis
of international competitive bidding, with a 7.5% preference to domestic
firms, in accordance with Bank Group procurement guidelines; (b) maintenance
equipment will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
with a preference of 15%, or the amount of the import tariff, whichever is
lower, on locally manufactured items in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Items costing under $25,000 equivalent with a total not exceeding US$200,000
equivalent could be procured locally under the Government's normal procedures,
acceptable to the Association. IDA will review contracts and related document-
ation for all other bids of US$25,000 equivalent or more; (c) procurement of
equipment by contractors will be in accordance with IDBP's normal procurement
procedures, acceptable to the Association; and (d) technical assistance will
be provided by qualified and experienced consultants and experts on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
56.       Disbursements from the credit account would be made on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 40% of local expenditures for rehabilita-
tion and improvement works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment
and spare parts, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally



- 17 -
manufactured goods, or 60% of local expenditures for other goods procured
locally (off-the-shelf); (c) 100% of foreign expenditures of sub-loans for the
construction industry made by IDBP; (d) 100% of expenditures for consultants'
services and advisors, with a maximum of US$1.0 million for retroactive
financing for project preparation; and (e) 100% of expenditures for laboratory
equipment, training aids and materials, travel expenses and per diem allowances
for trainees.
Economic Benefits and Risks
57.       Road transport plays an important role in the economy of Pakistan
accounting for about 62% of total ton kilometers and 80% of total passenger
kilometers. The project is designed to prevent deterioration of vital road
sections of Pakistan's transport system. These road sections carry signifi-
cant traffic volumes since they serve important centers of economic activity.
They have exceeded their economic life and even with intensive maintenance
the break-up of the roads will accelerate, transport costs will rise, and the
economy will suffer as transport requirements are not met economically.
58.       Most of the benefits of the project will accrue in terms of savings
in vehicle operating costs and will be widely distributed. In the case of
transportation of goods, since trucking is competitive, most of the transport
savings should be passed on from the transporter to the consumer in terms of
lower prices and increased product availability. For passenger transport,
because rates are currently fixed by the Government, the transport savings
will accrue at first to the bus owners, both public and private. However, in
the long run lower and middle income groups should benefit when rate increases
are deferred to reflect changes in costs.
59.       The overall economic rate of return of the project, which has been
measured for the road rehabilitation and maintenance components, is estimated
to be about 50%, which is based on an evaluation of about 90% of the project
costs for which benefits have been quantified. This return is high but is
not unusual for this type of rehabilitation and maintenance with high traffic
volumes. Even conservatively assuming a 20% reduction of benefits with a 20%
increase in costs, the overall rate of return would still be high at about 35%.
60.       There are no special risks associated with the project.  Principal
risks involve improper construction of the road sections and lack of organi-
zational and technical capacity of the various institutions involved in the
project. To overcome these risks, a separate Project Cell has been estab-
lished for the preparation of the project and will continue during the execu-
tion of the project. With continued support from the Coordinating Consultant,
the cell is expected to be able to execute the project efficiently. Arrange-
ments have been made to insure adequate supervision of the rehabilitation
work through the use of consultants. In addition, technical assistance and
training will be provided to IDBP and the Provincial Highway Departments. The
project is not expected to have any detrimental effects on the environment as
most of the rehabilitation and improvement works will be carried out within
existing road right-of-ways.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the Provinces of Baluchistan and North West Frontier, the
draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) include the comple-
tion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and IDBP and the conclusion of contracts with consultants and contractors.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 20, 1979



- 19 -
ABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA SUZET
fIsnlZNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ARGKS
LAND AQRA  ROUSAND . SQ   IAST                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMTE)
TOTAL            803.9                                                   Sun         SAKE     NZIT IIGnIR
WUCU.TUUL        24.2                                 IDST REUCt       GEcoRAcMC    INcOE         INCOME
1960 A      1970 A  LSTIIA1XEb       2ZC101 /c  GROUP /i   GROUP /a
GNP P, CAPITA MUS$)                    60.0       130.0     230.0           191.1       209.6       467.5
MM=G! CONSM1PTIOl PER CAPITA
(KILOGAUS 01 COAL EQUIVALUT)        61.0        9t8.0     181.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, M-UE  (MILLIONS)        45.9         60.4      74.9
UN"  POPULATION (POCT Of TOTAL) 22.1             24.9      26.4            13.2        16.2        24.6
POPMLTION PIOJECTIONS
POPMLATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      139.0
STATIOARY POPULATION (KnTLIOUS)                         335.0
TSAR STATIOoNAY POPULAON IS EAU                        2155
POPULalON DllSITY
PI  SQ. WN.                       57.0C        75.0      93.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
P?  SQ. Of. AGRICLTURAL LAND    201.0         249.0     307.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPUI.ATION AGE STRUCTSUI (PECMIT)
0-14 YES.                         43.8        46.3       47.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YES.                         51.8        50.5       50.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 Ys. AND ABOVE                    4.4A        3.2        3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROAS1 RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                              2.3          2.8       3.1             2.4        2.4         2.7
13A                                5.)          4.0       4.1             4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH EATE (PER THOUSAID)     49.0         47.0      45.0            44.4       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH EATE (PUR THOUSAD)       23.0        18.0      15.O            16.4       15.9         11.'
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2          3.7       3.3             3.2        2.9          2. i
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TSOUSANDS)       ..       1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED   )        ..          ..        6.0             7.9       12.2        13.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PUi CAPITA (1969-71-100)          83.0       102.0      103.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
EEQtIRDMZNTS)                   84.0        94.0      93.0             93.0       93.3        94. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.5        59.4       54.0            56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WaICH AfniAL  AND PULSE      16.0L"       14.0      14.3            10.4       13.6        17.4
CEIILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    27.0         21.0      17.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT  3St  (TEARS)    44.0        48.0       51.0            49.1       49 3        54 7
INFA13T MCRTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0k          ..       ..               ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .         21.0      29.0            31.5       26.3        34.14
URBAN                               ..          ..      60.0             63.9       58.5        57.9
RLUVAL                              ..          ..       17.J            20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POFPLATION)
MoTAL                               ..          3.0       6.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                               ..        12.0       21.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..         .              2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAN         .lO.0Lf   4310.J0h  3780. 'h            7107.9    1'396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER 'IURSING ?YRSON        ..      8440.0h 10040.0/h         :2064. 0    5352.4      1522.1
OUPULATON PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0       1870.0    2020.0          2738.4     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                            370.0       500.0      570.)              ..      '97.3       Z72.7
RURAL                          22850.0      12390.0   12360.0              ..     _44e.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..                         ..       24.8        '7.5
SHOS NG
AVERAGE .IZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3        .6/1             ..        5.3          .4
UR'S                               :..o         5.5       '.9tl            ..         .9         5.
RDUAL                              5. -         5.2       5.-/I            *-        S.-         5.5
AVERAG, SN-ER. OF ?ERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               E.1         ..        2.8/1
KUREA L.                                         .        '  !.                        ..
ACESS TO PLECTRI-1   P3RCENT
OF DWELL:NCS)
.URAL                               ..          ..       :.9               ..        2 5.9



- 20 -
TABLE 3A
PAJISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                       - TREFERENCEROUPS (ADJUSTED A GERA(ZS
PAI lSTAN             ~~~- t405T RECENT ESTIMATE) 
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL.ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 30.0         44.0      50.0             59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                  46.0        62.0       68.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE                13.0        24.0       31.0            43.7        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         14.0      17.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                  18.0        22.0       25.0            27.8        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 3.0         6.0        8.0            10.0        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.5        1.5             1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         41.0      42.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          24.0         20.0      19.0               ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0L      20.0      21.0             25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          3.0       2.8              2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         14.0      16.0             15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.7       1.8               ..        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.0           *-       5.0              6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8          3.0/i       ..              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0       18100.0   20400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    8.7          9.3       9.9             21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              60.8         58.9      58.0             66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17.9         18.7      20.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         28.7      27.9             35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 55.2         50.4      48.6             52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                                5.7          5.5       5.7             15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.7        1.7             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENr OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED 5Y
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/1        17.8      17.3               ..          ..        15.2
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.371        41.8      41.5               ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4           8.0       8.4               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i        20.2      20.6               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIlATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      91.0             86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      77.0             74.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      63.0               ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0             50.4       54.8        103.7
ESI. lMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
':RBAN                               *-           *-      27.0             44.3       44.1         24.8
R8RAL                                ..           ..      48.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not aoplicable.
NOTES
/a    me adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countrias among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'c    Souch Asta;  !d  Low Income (5280 or less per capita 1976);  /a  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
19761:   /f  Includes Bangladesh;  /g  1960-62;  /h  Regiscered, not all practising in the country;   /i  1972;
4i :963-64; /k 1962-65; /1 1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Augu t. 1979



- 21 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCTAL JBICATORtS
MoEs:  Although the da.ta are, drain  fro   sure  generally judged the meat  othsoritatlve and reliable, it shou-ld also be noted that they tin  not be itrs
tIolycosparahie  -ensce of the lack of standardised defiltton   end Concepts used by differen  Countries ho collecting the data. The dat.arno, onetheiess,
sful, to deocrihe triers of  agngitdoa, tndooste trends, sod charsoterize certain major differences hetweo countrte..
The aejosted gross averges for na-a  odiestor ar  pupulaal.-eeighted geometric mens .euldieg ths .oce-r                          ale  of th. indiustur end the moot p,piated
country oo 'ech group.  Dho, to macc of data, grup averages of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and of Indicators of Acoen  to Water aod Eocreta
Disposal, Housing, kooc.e Distribution and Povety for other country groups are population-ueigited geometric mesna without eiuonof the  -ot-e   oales  end
the coot populated country.  diSoc the coverage of oCuntrieo amng the hndicators depends on arViailbty of d"atend to n ot  niform, caution c-ot de coerese
in rematins ater g      o      neodic"tor to anosther.  T,ese seragen are  -otly useful as aor-icati.'s sdoso   vpce                    e nue           orn   h    elso   n
lodiat-r so n thEe sme9 t.he o- try nod ref-eretc              ---..
1A110 ARdA (tbo-oend aq. es.                                                                     Access to Elcreta ilonsa(preto  puoain) -  oa.u-ar1n oa
Total. - total surface area conprosig mod ares. and inland waters.                               Nuaner of peorle R)oni,M         sn,badfca)srvdO  eooreta disposnal`as
Agoruinoltal -  tost recent eotocoae of egricultura airea used temporarily                        percentngen  of their respective  popl-oivos, imoreta disposal rap  triod
or pe-s-utiy foe crops, Dttre_. coret eno Sit he- garden  or ..o                               the o-iu-thoc. end diovoo-.I  o,th or oito-o,,ttr tcn t, of tos    --.te
lie  fallow.                                                           an~~~~~~~~~~~d state-wter by oatsr-bor.. spotuca or the  -s  of pti  privies as  -ooler
'NPTR CAITPA. '<to) -  N   c   sisetmtso uea   ahtpOo,Pnrolation. -e    y4pcict     - Poplatico  divided by ouber of p,atti-tog ricaLlano
otoltdby same aco.verioso cetiod so World hank Atlas  (1976-CR bass)                         1nlfIed from  a -dcoa.1 suhool So university Le,sh.
i9ot, 1970, act tROd data.                                                                     Ppslto   er Nsorsig P:erso   -elatios dicited hy coole  of -ractitg osl
iNERGYd CONSDOPTIhN PER CAPITA - Actual conssiptiss of womircial  -nergy                            an  female g-adfste aurses, p_racti1cal norses, sod asststat nurss.
icoal and lignite, petro.t=u, nactraS  gas end bydro-, niclec  and gew-                        Pcoulatioc per H.osital Bed - total, urban, end rura   - Fopelsticn  (total,oio
therma  electricity; to tolugraSs of oval equivaleti per capita; 1960,                            end roos) divided by abeir resr-oi-  -onh-  of hospital heds soa.lleo
-             ~~~~1970, scs 1976 data.                                                                           public sod prorat  geneal end specisl:ized bstpo,tal end rosvotai nct-ro
Hospitals ace eatblidsdoscts permaently Staffed by at least one popssaoo.
POPUIATION A51D oCT01I DTATPDTlICP                                                                   atablishmentS providing principally custodial oCe- are sot  oiue . Rura
7otsl Pthllat4cl     M -eiilliors ( - is of July 1; ItOo, 1970, and                               hospitals, hocelrs, include health and medical .ctera sot permaentLy staffed
19)77 data,                                                                                    by a physIian  hu.t by a meds.oal saim           ,trs    idstif, etc.) shih offer
tri    P_noltica  Pe_n ftt                  ai   fobnt   oa    cosis                             apatient aocoosdtion  and proride a limited rage of ondicalfaloes
doffereot defiootio-  of orib  areas oy affect compara.bility of data                        Admissions Her Hosoital fled - Total number of ado-a-os  to or discharges fro.
*                amo~~~ng cosot-oes; 196d. 1970, end 1975 data,                                                 hospitals divided by the somber of bed..
Poulr tsr1    fer  OOR - C---es   --vlatio-  pri,teci-o  -c  rae  ow. d000025
P1975 1totalpopulatoon by sge end see and thei1 rsotolity and fertility                     Averege dice of hou.sehold (persons per hcuteio1d( - tottal, orini, nod  -roos  -
ratcs. frojeotico  parse.t-rS for   ortalitty rateS coepr-s  of three                        A houehold consists of a group of inhidasb  Soon  lir,og Toarteri end
Leves a.sauing Lofe -ope-teny at b-h_ct   ore'sng wino coontry, a                             heir  -ai meals.  A hoarder tr lodger soy Ir -of ton  so  -ocloO  to t,he
pro oaoina iccone level, sod fonsie life  -epctancy atabiliciog at                         hituachold for Statistical purposs.t
77.0 fears.  The parastera  fcr fertility rate aiso have sOme. herni                      bca- c comber of  -er-a  ceo room- told1   -ro, coo  -orall - A-oerccnso
assuing declin'e IS fertility  a-ordisg to booe level and past                               of per....o per coon in all  rion, end rura  vo-piotcrvectn  ds-lhtno,
fanily oisnning performace. tach  o.sstry is thes a--gned roe of these                       resoectocely.  Deelliogo  -oclude con-pernanent sts-ctorea sod unoc-uvod parts.
sis   o-bei-ti-o  of mort.loty ant fertototy trends for projection                        000000 to  Electricio   (prcnt of d-clli9Zgt)-toto,I            o-as"a  rrl-Jt
norooses.                                                        oor.tlonol iwelliogs octi elocorlocty  ho Ilcoog  patters  tO  porveathogo-tr     of Ic   i r
3doott-oc   pocolat-o   - in a otoobi-ary Poo,ilation there is so gr-th                        total, o-ban, -os  rral dseltlngs re-ecctti-y.
stoe te brthrate Is Scojosi to the osh r-to, sod elao the ege
stuoture remins cocotent. This is noeedocyPafter fertility rates                        piDSCAfith
o-ollo  toth absrelaort_ evlIf uit set reprod.cti. -erte, ohAdorned Enr-otlPelt   tc
eac h gesersti-o  of ormes repl-ce   t-sif esstly.  the sttonr    op-                        Pim-Y sovool - total, olo sod fons.le -  ross total, nate  osfemale  -nrol-
itallo   -.c us   stmted on she basiu of the pro;erted chcractelshr                            cnt of allagea an the p-seay lecel a  peoc-toges of reeevtto  -eey
of the p-vlation  is the peso 2000, sod the rate of icinei.  of fertiiitp                      school-age popua.tios;  ornslyp Includes chilre   stes  c-ti yce-  bot
rate toepaeetDc1                                                                               adju-tod for diffeocot leognhs cf primary odu-ti-o; ito  -   Itotios  ,thn
tsr  r.to .ryspu _ov  i's _otohe   . Th   poesn    ttoaypplto                             ncrs-icts    soictmy  --oed 100 peco-o  sotsoevo e.
siores. baheoraed                                                                              are demo, or a1o- thro ffi-oal achsoi age.
Posotc    eoity -ecodry  obl   total.nat  socp yfemlo- Computed  -.ci00  rvvr,--ry
us~.    - Pit-peer prpiutat-n per squar  iniocteve  (100 heotaresto                           octc   eoroo  loto   fou  per    f SPppr-ed orssot  Itor-ot!.-
totl  re                                                                                      poocides general vcatitonal, or teacher traisiag :port.                   or5   -do
Per  o. o. suhoolurellan   - Computed as abro  for sgrc-itur-   Lund                      sclpy ofe12 to 17 y ars  If s,er  lor  avoderre room     so  9,.-reulp
only.                                                                                           -ulicte.
P     Aosao   ge it-uture (percet) - :hihdrem   0-14 pros), asrkcng-age                    Vocationa.l  -oroleert  seoroet of secondeop) -Votos   otttoo rl
.5-t4 ye-co:, so   t cr0ted ;oC peso  end over, s   --ctageS of nd-peso                         trhoso-i, -odustoat, to othe  rvogran  oho  operate  -odoPemteelyora
opulaoo;        `O1, 1970, end 197' ftate.                                                        depsrtneato  If oroto.    pisuittrey
PosUlaiva trow1L-  Pete  ~peroot) - total - donoI or-th rates of nttSl aid-                       Pupil-toa-her ratio  - or-earo  sad' ....ov- d- C i stooroto  -.ssvtv-
perpSula.rt _s for 10q50-bO, ibm0-70, sod 1970-7l.                                            prmryed secoodary levels ohidied bp nubers vf teahers ha tietore
P .. lti- 0omor-th have  ore-t) - oion-  - Ansoa  groath rates of oribn                             sondr   "ievl
prouatooe  fo  190-t, 1~~71~7970-75,a-dtRtp                                               Abolt -otrau  oste  p,, t)o    - li-rceardolt. 'silo  to rid so   - oto   a
Crude Birth, Rate  pe)r tbnuosoad) - ActualI lire births Per tbhoaeo of nod-                        a peroe_tae of total adult popo1atiot age  10 fears ss over.
peear pnloo;11 1970, end 1977 onva.
Louse fmstbh Pace ',Per  tosoi  - nual  eatbs per nhr-,o nd ot cod-fear-                      ODSOC
ocopolattoec  tbvO, tOC, end lift hahn.                               Pnso-ger Coo   per  ht--c  voonio                - Ptenger  ten   -tPr-ce c-vr tort
(root  ecovsotiovPate  ~ - tora     vunn-  If o-htohert sooa     ,wl  00rsni-    ctr    eighttto-ro c oe    nusoo  hss.rss   sot _oita
:0 ir oros-  roprodootice poioJd o-f she eoper--ce   presoct age-                            v-hiohos.
operiic   rtotpraes; o-oLty five -pa   t,rage. o-diog cc, ledO,                              mbPot-tprtcto    voooc       l   yr   fooootf                                       t
Loft, sod 1000.                                                  ictsioarr.c to gracrot ~~~~~~~~~~~poolo her troen    f             -ootooc   rcitd crcrv
tossup Pianvod - droorcos. Rocota  tbotosots      boasni nobe, of               oreoolocsohcsso   eoc ohro regi-mr-oot   vi roo    orv  00  0
-reptors of birh-ontrol deroc-t under mspe-  of o.ttio-a  f.ilyp                                `ffnt , oatfr reeot pesos nap tot be  -opt--rtot      --conro
vonnoiog orog-o.                                                                               aicltosetlivscg
VontyPtsetH-   oor (erer--?  sore   oxIne    - Perceotag, of  -ored                      CV Pecovers t00hooted 00oiooo)-C  orecicero  for boo-so,t..vs -vt
toeo   ett-eco    g    i--  tr    woorcoireoidvtstblit per thou-ad ptpolstcr:   orlumoun-o-ud TV cv- -vrcov -,ttrcv
tool  ,aod-r   ttne age zr-op.                                                               and  t pears ohms  -giot-atito o  CV stot  ss cc corft
Onoope  Ciculaorsperthosan   pnato(- Shoot thy  -roerotircrlatior
PF005151DN  NtffVt,-T-CN                                                                            of  ino~ly eneond.  tleteo  o-oes--soer  , efi-ed isnpoottoora  vobiiitooni
Isiec 05 fttd   tut     -s  o   Capita   PO-            l,-hdes of per ojptpo.moe  Prttetty to reorvd-Ig  .eserl tees,.  Ct :0  snidleev   oP    ol
acsal. prc.t.tooc of alt. food o--nditiwo. Pro-totio  eoctudes ored sodofisoaeslatfori stc.
f-e  d - .  0              yaoda    eso bisec.  Cocoshso,.    fvoygooyoe  Mosi  1tt -dac fccr bwItIto . trr-cc rfkos
e.g. sgaooao   heated cf soge    i cih are ed, bie sr  cnsi   othotd ou-oo  the yes-, ooseg olati                                            coe r"Icnsdnble
e.g   .f_ornsdmnsecois-          o.    ggreoste  rtduot- onIf etch  --reny                 e
is datedi on osicos.  -oerge produce  proo, seghts.
Pro -t ais otPpof oc-icove            lleotrto  rctirrmen ) - Coapoted f-r                lOOPC  KRPCE
tseo ,  tsl-        foof oo    oc  ttaalt,.  -tocty per -sPcia                          to      b o rF-ovetoseo)-tooaatf-oo                          rost:titrtnv0
per day.  Avatae uoho   r-ar-s  dometorprduno s,ioots Leo.                                   fre   ar  -onepiop ed hoct e.-l-o co  h-to.-o-, ---ovts, r-c mc,cl-
repots,  nd oengo  ow  cok.  Oct, opp-lies 0001000 anMal feed, oe                             ostttrc    o   o   ofrtc
jpontitie   uwd  sofodh       aeoog   adhgso-osrboit  Hoqstr                                       cervemntr he  ra  Lotofrt Scc   veuevrs                         cc  o
rests oeov otomatd opr---hase  toodootgta  oes   ovooslb    ore  cr5:-tea   -1.oo - tore  10  pseroe.g io-r                                                 1-orc nod
codst .ar   oith roosidecotermralep aenmur , hoo   -egot-                            fthg to coorotugt vf moa  delve foJ r
ag   cos - otebtru -o   -f popoiSci a, sod s.tio-iig LU) t-r-   for                 ndos t-  o,ceent) - teno  for-o  -istog               tc o-_n.r-ofsto ,tor gco
*                osovoa~~~te   Ocoosohd lecci.                                                                etcr- -tp, saver sod ga  s so        . oerrtsgr -s -ot      s1      rc
Per ta-tta s-omip of oroate_  geso  per osp) -  yct-ncontoteot -f coo                       tsrop-,.o Pate I -eoorr   - ottuL, at.e, arcyes                   - tot--ovutto-t
_tsp it  ot suopip  of fovo per dsy. Oct suppip of fcoo  so dcoiseda so                      aticty fate  are o, o-p-od s  tonal, os             ,. -r -coo   --oc :-rc     as cer-
-o-v   Reqobooc-ts for sIomtev  cas-blicheo  by 0000A P--vdo  for a                            ome    f total,  -ni  and fosole popuhat A5. _              ige  ce- -cotto-if
notiego atirooneeof vi ores vi tot l prtein pee dsy  -d IOhg-na  of               L       9, 171. sad 19Th5 d-so.  These  oe Ld      -f0oonrave   -efleotc-
nosI.  anI    us  co-c o  sPot iPgene   scot   be animal crteo.                              age-to  s-rucor,e of the pouaio,ed  o-g time trots.  A trw ot-t-ce
Th se stand artse  ltoeb st               f     deans of btota   -tecel   -dar  foo   ooolsoos
tO  gocof soc-a  protein  so nooer-ge for tie coold,  -propse  by FAd                     cci Otalose_denoy Patio-t   Patio  ofppdoia-toer lI  and v-to   teen
Per ososte coome do sotolp Coon cocci ano rotor - Pro-veSsaage soprplytof ford
(bid   ags1-,totlt-henr trotct    A-Iitc   -tah, per cOos-ed                                 Peroetage -o irateCta   lnt 00 OtO  and -1000                  -     -Pcood cy otoe-
00age group 1-4.fao   otidr   hto    gmgv-;p; for moat dervi-                                   Peocut, voies20 psoceno, Poore.St -0 pmrsect. sod P-oeea   00 pere
iIAiTP                                                                                         nolVoff 7RPCC7 iCPCSC
0;fe o.pctnuny st Broth  yests  - Aceog  somber of years of life                              --nt4MI,d tb-ito- 'to--7 Cr-toe Lecet_  Ui$ 000 oc-tit   -s               ntd vocal-
-caoio   a  cmb   197 -,h<,-o  LOP-   tSom.                                            Alctio-eporry  icc.    Level is noe  -0m   iret. totssho    so-ivo
Ccf&nt tonli htr  ,per thoceo -   deta estis, vf isfenno 000r oce                                 ,tutoticatty adepoate i-te  pbs. essentiasl s fo   reouireseto   s :  ott
pear of ag  pe   ooon   hot tombs                                                              t`ffrd-to.
N-ober of o-oto toal  u-a,ttvrl   -om   -es-able a-tss nopclrntv    r-cynp  -rva   erv  is sv-cvorh if a-erag- P0   nPt
cafe -ote-  soPiP IY    oo       3eavt  sf-ts otter  or ontr-td ctPersonal  -osooe of toe  tonIptOoa  oel is d-ee ce    cote or-l loon
sccntS-dtmd caer  soch ar,t.o  ftot  Po-etect isrehol-s, Sp-ogs,                               icth tojtatmear for toghe, rrst 0.1irtg -0 -bea-tec
en  senicary sells:~ a-vosettoget of  bh-o  -espeoti- topouaots                 etstomtec Pto-lamt- Peita Abooloote Pcertvp Coosme bot   e9cce-   -bahean
enuI    csapsIb,oosoo  stsodpsst located act more then                                nos.-tretof populato-    rben end c-rl  srae  ahotte por.
200 soter  fron       - hose  ay he ot-oodered ma iniog  -ttbc  reasonable
',rt  o   ha    __ue.I  rualorc  resco-ale anon  coS  mt
that vie  -ose-ofe or schoro  of toe  --sarsld to not have to spesa aOsui   n    os   aaOot
doo_eclvtocoat  pso  of the say so fetchiog tie feolys~ sater seeds                                                                i-c -ca   Anaslysis DooPoecin    epsetocat
boptoat 1379



-22 -
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977!78                                                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7., constant orices)
J5$butllon            ".                                                      1972/73-1976,77       1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                              18.02         100.0                                                             4.1               6.4
Gross Domestic Investment                          3.10          17.2
Gross National Saving                              2.46          13.7
Current Account Balance                           -0.65          -3.6
Resource Balance                                 -1.62           -9.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977/78R
Value Added                Labor Force                   V.A. Pe  Worker
US$ million                 M Million     .1 US                           7.
Agriculture                4,888           32        12.0        55                407           58
Industry                   3,558           23         4.1        19                868          123
Services                   6,957          45          5.8        26              1,199          170
Total/Average          15,403          100         21.9       100                703          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                              Central Government
(Is billion)               7. of GDP                                              (Rs billion)               '71 of GDP
1977/78        1977/78       1973/74-1977/78                                      1977/78         1977/78    1973/74-1977/78
Current Receipts                              26.7            17.5              16.9                                             20.4           13.4               12.8
Current Expenditures                          27.7            18.1              18.2                                             20.0           13.1               13.3
Current Sur?lus/Deficit                       -1.0            -0.6              -1.3                                              0.4             0.3              -0.5
Capital Expenditures                          15.9            10.4              10.9                                            13.4             8.8                8.9
External Assistance (net)                      6.7             4.4               5.2                                              6.7            4.4                5.2
MONEY, GREDI? AND PRICES
1973,/74    1974/75    l975/76       1976/77    1977/78
billi7n Ras outstanding at end of per io
Money and Quasi Money                                         29.2        34.3         42.8        52.8         64.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                            14.2        16.9         22.1        28.7         33.4
Rank Credit to Private Sector                                 15.6        19.7         23.1        30.1         35.7
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP                            36.6        33.1         35.7        39.7         42.4
Whole,ale Price Index (1969/70 = l00)                        170.9       211.3        229.4       255.3        268.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                         32.8        23.6          8.6        11.3          5.2
Rank Credit to Public Sector (net)                             ..         18.6         30.6        29.7         16.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                  ..         26.7         17.1        30.4         18.5
/. Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
July 1979



-23-                                                                        ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1975/76    122767        1977/78    1978/79/a                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76-1978/79)
(05$ -millin
USS million                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$ million  %.
Exports of Goods, NFS                                  1,432       1,404       1,644        2,050
Imports of Goods, NFS                                  2,587       2,877       3,307        4,275                         Raw Cotton                      72.1         5.7
Resource Balance                                   -1,155       -1,473      -1,663      -2,225                          Rice                          249.1         19.6
Cotton Yarn                   147.7         11.6
Interest Payments (net)                                 -145        -169        -177         -185                         Cotton Cloth                  170.7         13.4
Workers' Remittances                                     335         578       1,166        1,400                         Manufactured Goods             339.3        26.7
Other Factor Payments (net)                               18          13           15         ...                         Other Goods                   292.1         23.0
Net Transfers                                            ...         ...          ...         ...                           Total                     1,271.0        100.0
Balance on Current Account                               947       1,051        -659       -1,090                         EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1978-US
Public H6LT Loans                                                                                                         Outstanding and Disbursed                million
Disbursements                                          919         829         668          808
Repayments                                            -146        -172        -167         -390                         Outstanding and Disbursed                7,054.4
Net Disbursements                                        773         657          521         418                         Undisbursed                               2,040.4
Outstanding Including Undisbursed    9,094.8
Capital Grants                                           120         149         112          120
Transactions with IMF                                    136          41           41          75                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO  1977/78kc            19.71
Other Items/d                                             84           6          315         127
Increase in Reserves                                    -166         198        -330          350                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, MAY 31, 1979 (US$ million)
Gross Reserves (year en4)                                636         438          768         418                                                           IBRE       IDA
Net Reserves (year end)Le                                167         -80          224
Outstanding and Disbursed    341.2    712.4
Fuel and Related M aterials                                                                                               Undisburaed                       92.3    279.9
Imports                                               332          381         529          585                         Outstanding Including
of which:  Petroleum                                255          274         341         367                            Undisbursed                   433.5    992.3
Exports                                                 20          26          62           52
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11, 1972            May 11, 1972 - February 15. 1973             Since February 15, 1973
US$  =  Rs 4.7619                     US$  .  11.00                           IS5  =  9 90
Rs   e  USS0.2100                     Rs   .   0.0909                         Rs   =  0.1010
/a Estimate.
/b  External public debt only; private debt is negligible.
Ic Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
/d Includes errors and omissions and short-term borrowing.
/e Excluding net use of IMF resources.
July 1979



- 24 -                                   ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                                                      Undis-
Number        Year    Borrower                  Purpose                        Bank      TW       IDA       bursed
Seventy-four loans and credits fully disbursed/a                               573.0              479.3
206           1970    Pakistan    Engineering Education                         --                  4.0        0.2
422           1973    Pakistan    Karachi Port III                              --                 18.0        0.9
961           1974    Pakistan    Industrial Investment                         25.0               --          0.5
492           1974    Pakistan    Karachi Port IV                               --                 16.0        6.8
510           1974    Pakistan    Telecommunications III                        --                 36.0        0.9
1107          1975    SNGPL         Gas Pipeline IV                             60.0               --         10.9
546           1975    Pakistan    Industrial Development (NDFC)                 --                 30.0        4.3
1208          1976    Pakistan    Power Transmission                            --        50.0    --          11.0
620           1976    Pakistan    Seed                                          --                 23.0       12.9
1326          1976    PICIC         Industrial Development                      25.0               --          1.9
630           1976    Pakistan    Lahore Water II                               --                 26.6       14.7
648           1976    Pakistan    Irrigation and Drainage                       --                 14.0       10.2
1366          1977    Pakistan    Livestock                                     --        10.0    --           9.8
1372/684      1977    Pakistan    Railways                                      35.0               25.0       40.2
678           1977    Pakistan    Education                                     --                 15.0       13.5
751           1977    Pakistan    Hill Farming                                 --                   3.0        2.4
754           1978    Pakistan    SCARP-VI                                      --                 70.0       69.8
755           1978    Pakistan    Hazara Forestry                              --                   1.7        1.6
771           1978    Pakistan    Tarbela II                                                       35.0       11.5
813           1978    Pakistan    Punjab Extension                                                 12.5       12.0
846           1978    Pakistan    Fauji Fertilizer                                                 55.0       47.0
867           1978    Pakistan    Toot Oil and Gas Development                                     30.0       27.6
877           1979    Pakistan    Salinity Control and Reclamation                                 60.0       60.0
892           1979    Pakistan    Primary Education               /b                               10.0       10.0
922           1979    Pakistan    Sind Agricultural Extension-                                     (9.0)      (9.0)
Total                                                                    781.0      60.0   894.1
of which has been repaid                                                 369.6      --       19.9
Total now outstanding                                                    348.4      60.0   874.2
Amount sold                                                  23.9
of which has been repaid                                     22.3          1.6      --       --
Ic
Total now held by Bank and IDA-                                          346.8      60.0   874.2
Total undisbursed                                                         46.0      20.8   313.8        380.6
/a Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects in the former East
Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b Not included in totals: Credit 922-PAK not yet effective.
/c Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of November 307 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1958    Steel Corp. of
Pakistan Ltd.         Rolled Steel Products    0.63         -      0.63
1959    Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles                   0.75       -      0.75
1962-   Gharibwal Cement
1965    Industries Ltd.        Cement                     5.25     0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                          Development                 -       0.52    0.52
1975    PICIC                  Financing
1965    Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles                   1.84      0.11    1.95
1965    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products             2.31     0.84    3.15
1967    Pakistan Paper
1976    Corp. Ltd.             Paper                      5.38     2.02    7.40
1969    Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers                1.00      2.92    3.92
1969    Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper             5.60      0.63    6.23
1979    Milkpak Limited        Food & Food Processing   2.40       0.40    2.80
1979    Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                                   29.00      1.62   30.62
Total Gross Commitments                         54.16      9.48   63.64
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                     33.25     1.01   34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               20.91      8.47   29.38
Undisbursed                                     28.40      2.02   30.42



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works. A first phase of these works was completed during the 1977/78 con-
struction season and further works were completed in 1978/79. Since 1975
irrigation requirements from the dam have generally been met. Power gene-
ration by the first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Tenth Railway Project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment for the telecommunications and signalling system is underway.   However,
due to difficulties in supply sources, procurement of wooden sleepers has been
delayed. While PR may be placing too much emphasis on passenger services,
the development of freight services is going in the right direction through
increases in hauling distance and ton kilometers.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Credit provicled US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. Most of the new physical facilities are now in use. In response to
a new staff development plan prepared by the Government, the Association
has granted a final extension of the Closing Date (until December 31, 1979)
to allow for completion of equipment procurement and an ongoing fellowship
program for teaching staff.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; 'Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
21 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until early 1981 - about
3 years behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construc-
tion of the oil berth has been completed. Contracts for channel dredging
works and dredger procurement have been awarded by KPT.  A study commissioned
by KPT will shortly put forward recommendations for rationalizing the port
tariff structure. An interim tariff increase averaging 100% was recently
approved by the Government:.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and at end-November, 1979, dis-
bursements amounted to US$23.1 million.
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation of
plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines



-28 -
ANNEX II
and to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization,
important to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, was delayed
but has now been initiated. The Closing Date has been extended by one year
to December. 31, 1979 to permit the project to be completed.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date:  November 30, 1980
The Credit has been fully committed and US$25.4 million had been
disbursed as of end-November, 1979. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 has been postponed to November 30, 1980 on account of one sub-project.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$10.8 million. It is proposed to amend the project descrip-
tion to allow the Borrower to use about US$2.3 million of these savings
towards a larger pipeline between Meyal and Dhulian and dehydration facilities
for handling additional gas from the Meyal field.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Physical progress of the project has slowed down in the last few
months, due primarily to inexperience of the Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations
(PSC and SSC) in dealing with local and foreign private contractors. Addi-
tionally, frequent changes in management of PSC have had adverse effects.
Despite good progress on Corporation farms, the quality of crops produced is
still severely constrained by the quality of the pre-basic seed provided by
the research institutions. The Government has responded to IDA's recommenda-
tions for changes to improve the situation. Commissioning of two of the PSC
seed plants is now scheduled for January 1980; the third will be delayed by
about six months. The scheduled commissioning date for the SSC is August
1980.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The majority of works have been contracted after some design delay
and retendering. Construction is about 2 years behind schedule. Due to
this delay and general inflation, the project cost is estimated to have
increased by about 24%. The engineering consulting service financed by UNDP
is being strengthened and extended to cover the prolonged project period.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Technical assistance provided by ODA (UK) for engineering and financial
management, leak detection and training has been reorganized to better meet
the needs of the project.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment is in
progress with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtually all bidding
documents for equipment and materials have been issued and awards made on the
major items. Due to lower-than-expected prices, estimated savings of $15
million have been cancelled.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 21 months behind schedule due to delays
in achieving credit effectiveness. With the recent completion by WAPDA and
their consultants of the project plan report and construction of ancillary
works and facilities, WAPDA would be able to maintain consistent and season-
able progress in the critical task of the drain pipe installations after
delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which took place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for: (a) general teacher training
and an experiment in an adult functional literacy program and related studies;
and (b) agricultural education to assist in developing higher and middle level
agricultural manpower, farmer training and related studies. Project implemen-
tation is about five months behind schedule, but the project is now making
reasonable progress. The Educational Master Plan, covering manpower and
enrollment projections as well as other activities concerning future develop-
ment at Sind Agricultural University, was completed in April 1979. About 85%
of civil works contracts have been awarded and about one-third of the works
completed. Tendering for about one-half the project equipment is in progress
and the balance is expecteid to be tendered shortly.  A technical assistance
contract was signed with UNESCO in early 1979 and recruitment is in progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been poor due to frequent changes in the
management of the Punjab Livestock Board (PLB). Lately, PLB has improved
the viability of the Lahore Milk Plant and has made progress in establishing



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Village Livestock Associations. Investments in abbatoir now appear unjusti-
fied and other components are being financed from other sources. The future
of the project is being reviewed with the Government. The Government has been
advised that construction of the milk plant will depend on the outcome of the
ongoing consultant's feasibility study and on PLB taking further action to
improve the viability of the existing facility.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most of the construc-
tion has been completed or is nearing completion. The aerial survey has
been carried out; demonstration farms have been established; and the pilot
vegetable and apple schemes, forestry and livestock activities are operating
closely to the time schedule envisaged.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment of consultants, who are assisting with project design and
implementation.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is still well behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural
work. Steps to improve this situation have been agreed with the project
authorities.
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project implementation plan has been finalized. A short delay
has occurred in appointing key staff. The T&V system is operating in the
project area and is also being implemented in the rest of the Province.
While some minor operational snags remain, general progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are well advanced and site preparation
is underway. The marketing program is being implemented according to schedule
and construction of the housing colony at the project site is well underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing I)ate: December 31, 1981
The project is currently at an initial stage. The key drilling
component has encountered some difficulty; special technical consultants will
help correct technical problems. A new drilling contract will be entered
into in early 1980.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants to assist WAPDA in the preparation of detailed designs,
specifications and procurement documents have been appointed. The Credit
has just been declared effective.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18, 1979;
Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
11985
The Credit has just been declared effective. Consultants for training
and evaluation components have been engaged.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
About 2.5 years
(b) Agency which has prepared the project:
Third Highway Project Cell of MOC, with the
assistance of six domestic and one foreign
consulting firms.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of first Bank Mission to consider the project:
May 1973
June 1973
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
August 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
About April 1980
Section II: Special Conditions
(1) (a) construction of the new Indus Highway will not
proceed during the Five-Year Plan period (paragraph
35); (b) IDA will be given the opportunity to review
and comment on GOP's highway sector investment plans
(paragraph 35); (c) GOP will undertake a study of
alternative methods of dealing with vehicle



- 33 -
ANNEX III
overloading by September 1980, and commence by
March 31, 1981 in accordance with a schedule
agreed with IDA implementation of an action plan
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 36);(d) overlay
of Karach:L-Hyderabad Highway will start by June 30,
1980, and be completed by June 30, 1984 (paragraph
38); (e) a monitoring system for the national
highways will be implemented before March 31, 1980
(paragraph 52); (f) a training program, satisfactory
to the Association, will commence by December 31,
1980 (paragraph 52); and (g) a program of periodic
road maintenance will be prepared by June 30, 1980
and implementation will begin by December 31, 1980
(paragraph 52).
(2) The following are additional conditions of credit
effectiveness: (a) GOP and IDBP have entered into
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (b) GOP has entered
into contracts with consultants and contractors, all
satisfactory to the Association (paragraphs 61).






IBRD 14188R
64'                                        68-                                      72-        U. S. S R                AUGUST 1979
*- ~CHINA
PAKISTAN                                                                      .-/  -
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
-36'                                                                                                                                                             6 4 -e  
PROJECI ROADS                                                                   L,          J            -
-    NATIONAL ROADS                                                      
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                                               R         (
RAILWAYS                                                                                        .    . .........
4      AIRPORTS                                  L                              Chorsodo        )       App-o-Ime. Li;, oP Co-,o(-
---  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                                                A 4'  ir kod SLM MABAD
RIVERS                                                                                   41p,.
32'                                                                                                                                                             32'-
R A N           i                                                                                            N    B
/ .1/ f/rood,oro D0                                                    5 100        200       300        400
0        g  s/  zl t~~~ N    D                                             K LOMETERS' 
0      50      100      150     200      250
( ; *'~ ; /' Belo..bshoh 72                                                                                                  MILES
-yderobod                                        DEM5 REP 0C) lne
Ut IRAN 7AFGHANISTAPC4        CHINA
pe,1T(:ttO  A               }        , tb\,V~~')ZAIT  4--         j       r-
-24At\ >- <1  24--                                                                                                                      N  t ( &
A4 r o b i o n  S e a                              <      ,;                                       S AJU Dg  4' >                  NDIA
mA,, A  m rhn r,fhol b7tL>   WodE8.k. t.Wao88,.' 1r11,e a.r,*r#sce                                                 ARA81A  J +-/          \~
tf1.r.1. 8 ,o,rto M .ihC .me8.~  11, *n*r,8.d,ierh/b, ,,1                                                        /fEMN R       A,objcr, Sea ,
.C.loo  I'                                                        .18 boe.WOO'



