Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     _    COP
Report No. 2470a-PAK
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 20, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 9.90            =    US$1
Rs 1.00            =    US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million     =    US$101,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Mile            1.6093 Kilometer (km)
1 Foot      =     0.3048 Meter (m)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Organizations:
DGNH          -     Directorate General National Highways
GOP           -     Government of Pakistan
IDBP          -     Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
KPT           -     Karachi Port Trust
NWFP          -     Northwest Frontier Province
MOC           -     Ministry of Communications
NHB           -     National Highway Board
NTRC          -     National Transport Research Center
PIA           -     Pakistan International Airways
PR            -     Pakistan Railways
UK ODA        -     United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
UNDP          -     United Nations Development Program
USAID         -     United States Agency for International Development
Technical:
ADT           -     Average Daily Traffic
DWT           -     Deadweight Tons
ER            -     Economic Rate of Return
GDP           -     Gross Domestic Product
POL           -     Petroleum Oil and Lubricants
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   TRANSPORT SECTOR . .........       .............................    1
A.   Setting ........       ....................................    1
B.   Transport System        .................................... 
II.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ......................................    7
A .  Road Network and Traffic          ...........................    7
B.   Administration, Organization and Training ..........        9
C.   Planning and Finance ...............          .10
D.   Technical Aspects of Highway Construction
and Maintenance   .               .12
E.   The Domestic Construction Industry   .        .14
F.   First and Second Highway Projects    .       .15
III.   THE PROJECT                  ..............16
A.   Backgound......................... ............ ..   1
Ab. Background..16
B. Description                . . .17
C. Cost Estimates    ..19
D. Financing ... o ..         ..21
E. Implementation             ..21
F. Procurement   ..23
G.   Disbursements ....      .. ..        .23
H. Environmental Effects.                                      24
I. Monitoring and Reporting             .       .24
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..o    ..................................   24
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries ......       ...................  24
B.   Road Rehabilitation and Improvement .....      ...........  25
Co   Road Maintenance ...........     ........................   26
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS ............................   27
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. Panfil (Economist), and H.S.
Thriscutt (Highway Engineer).  N. Fostvedt (Industrial Finance Operations
Officer) and Mr. H.S. Kaden (Construction Industry Advisor) also assisted.
This documont has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutios. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
I.   Provision of Coordinating Consultancy Services:  Terms of Reference
II.   The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan:  Construction Industry
Component
III.   Terms of Reference for Road Construction Advisor
IV.   Reporting Requirements
V.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.   The Main Road Network
2.   Fuel Consumption on Roads
3.   Motor Vehicles Registered
4.   Road Maintenance and Construction Expenditures
5.   Revenues from Road Sector Collected by the Provinces
6.   Federal Road User Taxes
7.   Highway Design Standard for Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
8.   Equipment for Resealing Units
9.   Cost Estimates by Year
10.   Cost of Construction and Maintenance Equipment Financed via IDBP
11.   Project Preparation Costs
12.   Cost of Coordination Consultant
13.   Construction Supervision Costs
14.   Road Construction Advisor Costs
15.   Cost of Technical Assistance to Federal and Provincial Highway
Departments, Training and Future Project Preparation
16.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
17.   Traffic Data on Road Sections for Rehabilitation and Improvement
18.   Economic Evaluations for Rehabilitation and Improvement
19.   Economic Evaluation for Resealing
CHARTS
1.   The Ministry of Communications Central Road Organization (WB 20777)
2.   National Highways Board & Directorate General of National Hi hwavs (WB 20741)
3.   Organization of Sind Provincial Highway Department (WB 20130)
4.   Implementation Schedule (WB 20742)
5.   Coordinating Consultants Supervision Schedule (WB 20131)
MAP
IBRD #14188R Map of Project Roads
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Pakistan and
collected by past preparation missions during 1977 and 1978 and the findings
of an appraisal mission in November/December 1978 consisting of Messrs.
R. Panfil (Economist) and H.S. Thriscutt (Highway Engineer) and assisted
by N. Fostvedt (Industrial Finance Operations Officer) and Mr. H.S. Kaden
(Construction Industry Advisor). Additional reports and data relative to
the project available in IDA are listed in Annex V.



PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Setting
1.01      Pakistan covers a land area of about 800,000 square kilometers,
approximately one and a half times the size of France.  The topography con-
sists mainly of the productive flat Indus basin with the Himalayas lying to
the north and the lower Hindu Kush to the west. In 1978 the population of
Pakistan was about 76 million and is estimated to be increasing at an annual
rate of about 3% per year. About 26% of the population lives in urban areas,
which are rapidly expanding because of migration from the countryside.
1.02      The country is a federation of four provinces (Baluchistan, North-
west Frontier Province, Punjab and Sind), the territory of Azad Kashmir and
a number of federally administered tribal areas (FATA). The four provinces
possess considerable autonomy and are responsible, among other activities,
for agriculture, education, health, roads and irrigation works. Railways,
telecommunications and power are some of the federally administered activities.
1.03      Pakistan's gross domestic product (GDP) at factor cost in 1977/78
is estimated to be about Rs 152 billion (US$15 billion) and per capita GDP is
about Rs 1, 950 (US$197). Since 1970 the average annual growth of GDP in real
terms has been about 3.8%, just above the population growth rate. The major
sector of the economy is agriculture, generating about 32% of GDP. Other
important sectors are manufacturing (15%), commerce (15%), transport including
telecommunication (6%) and construction (4%).
B.   Transport System
1.04      Transport modes ranging from camel caravan to jet aircraft are
represented in Pakistan. The principal transport system encompasses about
40,000 kilometers of national and provincial roads, 8,800 kilometers of
railroads, four international airports, one major port and a gas pipeline
transmission system. The transport services are operated by the government-
owned Pakistan Railways (PR), National Shipping Corporation (NSC) and Pakistan
International Airways (PIA), four provincially owned bus companies, two
gas transmission companies and numerous private road transporters for both
goods and passengers. Major products transported include wheat, rice,
cement, fertilizer and petroleum.
1.05      The growth in domestic traffic in the transport sector as shown
below, has been faster than the growth in GDP, particularly for passenger
traffic. Domestic freight transport during the period 1971/72 to 1977/78
grew at a 5.6% annual rate, while passenger traffic increased at a 9.9% rate.
The road subsector is clearly the dominant mode of transport and its share
is increasing.



-2 -
Domestic Freight Transport
(Millions of Ton Kilometers)
% Annual
1971/72      % Share       1977/78       % Share        Growth
TOTAL        15,695          100         21,740           100           5.6
Roads        8,050           51         13,360            62           8.8
Railways    7,640            49          8,370           38            1.9
Air              5           -               10           -           11.2
Domestic Passenger Transport
(Millions of Passenger Kilometers)
% Annual
1971/72      % Share       1977/78       % Share        Growth
TOTAL        46,360          100         81,630           100           9.9
Roads      36,540            79         64,410           80          10.2
Railways    9,520            20         15,230           19           8.1
Air            300            1            990             1         22.0
Roads
1.06      The road subsector is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
Railroads
1.07      The Pakistan railway system consists of about 8,800 route kilometers
and connects most of the major cities throughout the country, as well as having
connection with India, Iran and Afganistan. Although traffic has varied from
one year to the next, the trend appears to be that of declining revenue tons
while ton-kilometers are increasing. The rising average haul distance is the
natural result of road competition. The hostilities with India in 1971, and
severe flood damage in 1973 and 1976, all contributed to the erratic traffic
pattern. Principal freight includes POL (23% of ton km), wheat (14%), cement
(9%) and rice (8%) which together comprise over 50% of the railway traffic.
Approximately 75% of the freight moves in a south to north direction, which
creates an imbalance for cargo movements and increases operating and capital
costs.
1.08      In contrast to freight traffic, passenger traffic has shown a rather
steady increase during the 1970s. Passenger traffic has increased during the
70s at an annual rate of 3.1% and passenger kilometers at 8.1%. The average
trip distance has increased from 77 km to 101 km. About 97% of the passengers
and 90% of the passenger-miles come from third class passenger services.



-3-
Pakistan Railways Traffic
Millions
Annual
71/72    72/73    73/74   74/75  75/76    76/77   77/78  Growth
72-78
Revenue Tons /a    11.1       11.1      10.1    10.4      10.6      9.2    10.1  -1.5%
Revenue Ton Km  7,079       7,745    6,822   7,538   8,177   7,045    7,915    1.9%
Passengers         124       136        143     143      147      142      149    3.1%
Passenger Km    9,520   11,074    11,697  12,360  12,962  12,998   15,230    8.1%
/a   Revenue tons exclude PR's own cargo which is included in the
table in para 1.06.
1.09      The operating performance of PR has been deteriorating especially
when viewed over a longer period. For instance wagon turnaround time in
1958/59, was 7 days compared to 17 days in 1977/78. Major issues involve the
rationalization of passenger service and freight service, the operation of
uneconomical branch lines, improvement of maintenance, utilization of avail-
able equipment and financial viability. A restructuring of tariffs (lowering
long distance freight while raising passenger service) in line with costs
would encourage a more efficient transport system. Also, freight train speeds
should be increased up to the capacity of the existing rolling stock, 70 kph,
and passenger train speeds and services should be adjusted in such a way that
line capacity is not reduced.
1.10      To realize the potential for operational improvement particularly
in the transport of cargo, in November 1975 PR undertook a major program
to rationalize services. Also, an action plan with specific operational
targets was agreed during negotiations for the Tenth Railway Project (Loan
1372/Credit 684-PAK December 1976). However, due to external circumstances
such as the floods in 1976, significant operational improvements have not
appeared until recently. Since October 1978, with the need to transport
large quantities of wheat and fertilizer from Karachi port to the interior
and with the reduction of distribution points, the wagon turnaround time
dropped from 17 to 13 days.
Ports
1.11      Karachi Port, which is operated by the Karachi Port Trust, is
presently Pakistan's only international port. The port facilities include
24 wide apron general cargo berths and 4 POL berths. In addition, four new
dry cargo berths are being constructed with IDA financing. A new port some
20 miles away from Karachi at Qasim is being constructed, with financing
from the Asian Development Bank and several bilateral donors, to serve the
steel mill (initial 1 million ton capacity) which is also under construction.
Besides a bulk handling facility for coal and iron ore, four marginal berths
are being constructed and channel dredging is also underway.



- 4 -
Karachi Port Trust Traffic
Millions of tons
Annual
71/72   72/73   73/74  74/75  75/76   76/77  77/78  Growth
POL                4.3     4.5      4.9    4.6    4.5      4.8    6.2   6.2%
Dry Cargo          5.0      5.7     5.6    5.4    5.4       4.8    5.6   1.9%
Total            9.3    10.2    10.5   10.0    9.9       9.6   11.8   4.0%
Until 1977/78, there had been little increase in KPT's traffic for several
years.  This in part reflects the modest growth of the Pakistan economy
during the 1970s and a reduction in wheat imports during the mid 70s.  In
1977/78 there was an increase in the importation of crude oil and wheat.
Because of a rust attack on the domestic wheat crop during 1978, wheat
imports reach an all time high of over two million tons, and dry cargo
handled approached eight million tons in 1978-79.
1.13      During most of the 1970s the operational performance of the port of
KPT showed little improvement. In spite of the construction of 3 new and
reconstruction of 7 existing berths with Bank Group support (Loan 376-PAK,
Cr. 422-PAK and Cr. 492-PAK), ship waiting time increased rapidly. In recent
years the cost of this, which is mostly in foreign exchange, has been esti-
mated to range around $50 to $75 million.  Hook hour rates for general cargo
have dropped from 13.5 tons an hour to 9.3 tons for exports, and from 9.8 tons
an hour to 4.1 for imports.  This has been attributed to the decasualization
of dock labor, the physical congestion of the port, the slow removal of cargo
and the failure of management to tackle the problem seriously.
1.14      In 1978 a number of measures were taken in order to improve opera-
tional efficiency. Old cargo has been consolidated and customs auctions
for its disposal have been increased. Steps are being taken to reorganize
and strengthen cargo management at quayside. Incentives have been estab-
lished on more cargo to encourage quicker unloading. Also, additional open
air storage space is being constructed. More recently, in September 1978
the Quartermaster General of the Army has taken over the coordination of
wheat and fertilizer movements and throughput has rapidly increased.
Shipping
1.15      In 1977-78, the Pakistani fleet carried one million tons of general
cargo and 0.6 million tons of dry bulk cargo which represent about 30% of the
total volume of 5.6 million tons of dry cargo shipments. All liquid bulk
shipments were carried in foreign fleets. From 1971 to 1978 the national
fleet has been reduced from 750,000 DWT to 250,000 DWT because of war losses
and scrapping. The average age of the existing fleet is high (fifteen years).
Operational efficiency of the general cargo is low, less than three tons of
cargo per DWT per year against the world average of 5.8 tons per DWT.



1.16      In order to improve operations, the two Government-owned shipping
companies (National Shipping Corporation and Pakistan Shipping Corporation)
are being merged into one. In addition the Government has now entered into
agreements for bilateral financing of general cargo ships which will replace
the existing obsolete vessels. Assuming that the port congestion situation
and fleet management are improved so that productivity per ship is increased,
the proposed fleet additions should save foreign exchange.
Civil Aviation
1.17      Scheduled international service is provided at four airports:
Karachi, Rawalpindi, Lahore and Peshawar, and domestic service is provided
by the government-controlled Pakistan International Airways (PIA). Since
1972, PIA's passenger kilometers (international and domestic) have grown at
an average annual rate of 28% and ton kilometers at 23%. PIA has greatly
benefited from the oil boom in the Middle East where its services are heavily
concentrated. In spite of the rapid growth, operations are well managed and
profits have been increasing during the last four years.
PIA Traffic
(Millions)
Annual Growth
72/73   73/74   74/75   75/76   76/77   77/78          72-78
Passenger
Km        1,304   1,585   2,224   2,929   3,752   4,505           28%
Ton Km       66.8    78.7   121.2   136.5   148.6   185.0           23%
Pipelines
1.18      Pakistan's existing pipeline network is principally for the trans-
mission and distribution of gas. In addition, construction of an oil pipeline
from Karachi to Multan is now in progress. The Bank has assisted the develop-
ment of the gas pipeline system since 1954 through five projects. During the
70s gas consumption increased at an annual rate of 7.3%, and because of recent
discoveries and development plans, it is projected to increase at an annual
rate of 10% during the next five years. As a result of investments during
1970-78, most of the projected increase in gas demand can be handled by the
existing pipeline network which adequately serves the major markets. Future
expansion of the system will depend mainly on the commercial possibilities for
developing oil and associated gas in recently discovered oilfields such as
Toot, Pirkoh, Dhodak and Adi.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.19      Administrative responsibility for transportation falls on four
federal ministries. The Ministry of Communications is responsible for roads



-6 -
and road transport, shipping and ports; the Ministry of Railways is respon-
sible for railroad transportation; civil aviation is under the Ministry of
Defense and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources is responsible
for pipelines. In the case of roads, administrative responsibility is further
subdivided among the four provincial governments: Punjab, Sind, Northwest
Frontier (NWFP) and Baluchistan. In addition, there are several autonomous
operating companies such as Pakistan International Airways, Karachi Port Trust,
gas transmission and distribution firms, and the state shipping company.
Because of the multiplicity of ministries and agencies dealing with transport,
the Planning and Development Division of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Affairs (formerly the Planning Commission) has recommended that a Ministry
of Transport be established. This would allow for better coordination of
planning operations, investment and pricing policies, but would take some
time to implement since it would involve a major reorganization of Government.
1.20      The Planning and Development Division is responsible for approving
investment requests for the various ministries and operating companies. To
provide a basis for developing rational transport policies and planning, a
transport coordination study was financed under the Second Highway Project
(Loan 578-PAK). In accordance with a recommendation of the study, GOP estab-
lished a National Transport Research Center (NTRC) in 1975. The role of NTRC
is to concentrate on multi-modal transport research by collecting information
and data and coordinating the research work of other ministries and transport
agencies. So far the organization has only been able to undertake a limited
number of studies because of staff and budget constraints. Recently the GOP
has increased its allocation to NTRC, and technical assistance is being pro-
vided by UNDP and the UK Government.
1.21      Government policy in the transport system is a mixture of controls.
The rate structure is established by GOP for railway, pipelines and port
services. Trucking routes and rates are unregulated, but there are some
restrictio.as on the number of licenses for inter-provincial transport. Bus
rates and routes are fixed, but there is freedom of entry except in urban
areas. In the major cities, except Karachi and Lahore, the Provincial Road
Transport Corporations have monopolies.
1.22      Presently most competition between transport modes takes place
between the railroads and roads. The transport coordination study (para 1.20)
investigated the competition between rail and roads and concluded:
(a) that road transport taxation was sufficient so that there
was not unfair competition between rail and roads;
(b) trucking regulations should be kept to a minimum so as to
promote competition; and
(c) that the railroad should concentrate on improving operations
for the movement of long distance bulk cargo.
For the most part these recommendations have been carried out. Road taxa-
tion still appears to be adequate although expenditures on roads need to be



-7 -
increased (para 2.18). For the most part, trucking routes and rates are
unregulated and the industry is competitive. With the development of road
transport, the railroads are moving in the direction of carrying more long
distance bulk commodities and efforts are being made to improve operations
(para 1.10).
1.23      The Planning and Development Division has indicated that GOP's
general strategy in the transport sector during the Five-Year Plan period
1978-83 would be to:
(a) emphasize improved utilization and modernization of
existing facilities in order to increase capacity;
(b) promote the integrated development of different modes
of transport; and
(c) give high priority to completion of ongoing schemes.
1.24      About 23% of the Fifth Plan investments (1978-83) is for the
transportation sector. Allocations between the various modes are:
Transport Sector of Fifth Plan (1978-83)
Rupees Million
Highways & Road Transport        9,484          27.5
Railways                         6,773          19.7
Ports & Shipping                 4,721          13.7
Air                             11,308          32.8
Pipelines                        2,178           6.3
Total                      34,464        100.0
The outstanding feature of the modal allocations is the large proposed invest-
ments in air transportation, which is mainly for aircraft. However, Government
has now come to the conclusion that the traffic projection to support this
investment was optimistic and the allocation will be reduced.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Road Network and Traffic
2.01      Pakistan's principal road network contains about 40,000 km of which
23,500 have bituminous surfacing (Table 1).  Nearly 50% of the paved roads are
in Punjab, which is located in the heart of the Indus basin and contains over
50% of the country's population. Baluchistan, the largest province but least
populated has only about 20% of the paved roads. Most of the remaining roads
in the principal network are shingle surfaced (gravel) and provide all weather



- 8 -
access. In addition to the main road network, there are some 40,000-60,000 km
of earth (kacha) roads which provide access to the rural areas during the dry
seasons.
2.02      The road network provides coverage to most of Pakistan's cities,
towns and industrially productive areas. However, the quality of the network
is often deficient and does not meet present transport demands economically.
Most of the paved roads are narrow, with a paved width averaging only about
three meters. In addition, the structural strength of the pavements is often
insufficient, leading to failures on major roads under heavy traffic loads.
2.03      The quality of traffic count data varies from province to province.
In Punjab traffic counts are generally reliable since Lahore was formerly the
center for the West Pakistan Highway Department, and traffic counts have been
taken on a fairly regular basis during the last ten years. In other provinces
systematic counts are taken less frequently. During the last few years the
Punjab Highway Department has been compiling national traffic data in a yearly
publication. On the main trunk roads traffic volumes vary from about 2,500-
3,000 average daily traffic (ADT) in the rural areas to 3,500-4,000 ADT near
the larger urban areas. About 70% of the traffic volume in rural areas is
heavy traffic (trucks 50% and buses 20%). On other secondary roads, traffic
volumes of 400-800 vehicles per day are common.
2.04      Although it is difficult to obtain trends from traffic count data
because counts are short and subject to seasonal variations, average traffic
growth appears to be of the order of 7 or 8% per year. Other sources of data
appear to confirm this traffic growth rate. The growth in highway fuel con-
sumption during the 70s has been about 7% (Table 2). Vehicle registration
data indicates a 6.8% growth rate for automobiles, trucks and buses during the
70s (Table 3). However, the latter source of data is somewhat suspect with
figures being overstated since scrapped vehicles are not deducted. 1/
2.05      Automobiles are both assembled in Pakistan and imported fully
assembled. Existing plants assemble about five to seven thousand units per
year and one of the goals in the Fifth Plan (1978-83) is to achieve complete
import-substitution for all cross-country jeeps and small passenger cars.
However, the assembly plants, which have been nationalized, are generally
small and not designed for economies of scale. In December 1978, the Asian
Development Bank approved a project to assist the auto assembly industry.
2.06      Most trucks are privately owned and the road haulage industry is
competitive with little regulatory control. There are many small firms and
a large number of owner operators.  The 8 ton capacity Bedford truck is the
common vehicle used and is assembled in Pakistan. In the last few years,
small 3/4 ton trucks have become very popular and are now also being assembled
in Pakistan. Although there is a generally flat terrain and often long hauls,
1/   The National Transport Research Center (NTRC) is starting a data bank
to improve the collection of such statistics.



-9-
large articulated multi-axle vehicles are rarely found. The Planning
Commission has recognized the advantages which larger vehicles could have
on lowering transport costs and axle loading in the Fifth Plan.
2.07      Registration figures indicate that the bus fleet has been growing
more rapidly than the automobile and truck fleets, at about a 10% annual rate.
The ubiquitous bus (50 seats) is also a Bedford with the same chassis as the
trucks. The 10-seater minibuses, however, are becoming very popular for both
urban and inter-urban transport. Most bus transport is undertaken by the
private sector although there are four large provincial bus corporations.
B.   Administration, Organization and Training
2.08      There are three main agencies responsible for highways in Pakistan:
the Ministry of Communications (MOc), provincial highways departments and
district councils. Until January 1978, the Ministry of Communications,
operating through a Joint Secretary and a small headquarters staff, was
responsible only for general uniformity of highway standards and allocation
of Federal Government funds to the provinces. All major roads were in the
provincial domain and the provincial highway departments carried out all
construction and maintenance operations. District councils were, and still
are, responsible for the upkeep of minor unsurfaced "kacha" roads.
2.09      In January 1978, a total of 3,500 kilometers of major routes were
designated as national highways, for which the Ministry of Communications
assumed full responsibility for improvement and maintenance. However, since
MOC had no maintenance and construction organization, the provincial highways
departments continue to carry out work on national highways as agents for
MOC. MOC therefore has a supervisory and planning role in relation to
national highways, and a new National Highway Board has been organized
on June 3, 1979, and a Directorate General of National Highways has been
formed to monitor and inspect work done on the national highways.
2.10      In addition to the MOC and the provincial highway departments,
there are 64 district councils in Pakistan concerned with the upkeep of the
generally lightly trafficked kacha roads. Their work is highly labor inten-
sive and equipment, if needed, is hired or borrowed from provincial highways
departments, who also help at times with technical advice. When traffic oni a
kaeIa road grows so that hand maintenance becomes impracticable, the road is
usually upgraded and surfaced anl taken over by the provincial highways
department. The Agency for International Development of the United States
(USAID) has a limited program of training for ni.si-rict Council road con-
struction and maintenance staff.
2.11      The organization and structure of the Ministry of Communications
Central Roads Organization is shown in Chart 1 (IBRD No. 20777) and that
of the newly formed National Highway Board and Directorate General of National
Highways in Chart 2 (IBRD 20741). A typical provincial highway department
(Sind)     is presented in Chart 3 (IBRD 20130).  Other provincial highways
departments have similar structures except illat in the case of NWFP and
Baluchistan, the construction and maintenance of government buildings is
carried out by the same department. With present work loads in these two
provinces, this is an acceptable and workable arrangement until increasing
specialization or work load calls for separation.



- 10 -
2.12      For both the Ministry of Communications and provincial highways
departments, the hierarchical structures are basically sound, giving clearly
defined lines of responsibility for main functions. Nevertheless, the
organizations themselves are not efficient and do not succeed in effectively
maintaining the highway network. This appears to be due primarily to man-
agerial weakness and to a decline in productivity of the work force. Man-
agerial weakness is engendered not from any inherent shortage of professional
staff but rather by losses of experienced engineers and a rapid turnover of
staff due to attractive salaries in the private sector and other countries.
Poor productivity also results from poor discipline and training, lack of
reliable highway equipment and, until recently, a chronic shortage of funds.
2.13      Training for the most part has been on-the-job using apprenticeship
methods. Some administrators have participated in international training
through seminars and workshops, but their number is small. In addition,
training has taken place through technical assistance which has been provided
by various international donors, including the World Bank, under previous
highway projects. Because of salary and personnel policies, it is difficult
to measure how effective the international training and technical assistance
has been, but in specific instances, such as in soils engineering and design
in Punjab, its benefits are apparent. In addition to some technical assist-
ance for specific tasks within the proposed Project, a more formalized train-
ing program will accompany the introduction of maintenance equipment (paras
3.07 and 3.16). This more formalized on-the-job training could provide the
basis for the departments to institute training on a permanent basis.
C.   Planning and Finance
2.14      Most planning project appraisals and design are undertaken by the
provincial highway departments. For individual construction projects, a
technical report is prepared as part of the request for funding. If the
project is of provincial importance and under Rs 2.5 million, it can be
approved within the provincial highway department. If it is under Rs 10
million, it can be approved by the Provincial Development Working Party and
if over that amount the project must obtain approval at the Federal level.
For larger projects, feasibility studies are sometimes carried out by con-
sultants. The studies, however, have often been biased and failed to evaluate
alternative solutions or indicate priorities among different possible invest-
ments. In the preparation of Third Highway Project domestic consultants have
been used for the economic evaluation and design of Project roads with
assistance from an expatriate coordinating consultant. This arrangement has
resulted in a useful transfer of technology and it is planned to be continued
during Project supervision.
2.15      In order to develop a strategy and priorities, a transport coor-
dination survey was financed under the Second Highway Project in 1971. How-
ever, little attention was paid to the investment implications of this survey
until recently. For instance, one of the study's main conclusions was that
emphasis should be placed on the rehabilitation and improvement of existing
roads, rather than the construction of new highways. Nevertheless, instead



- 11 -
of improving the existing blacktop roads on the west bank, the Government had
planned to construct a new Indus Superhighway which would have amounted to
over 30% of the total expenditures of the Five-Year Plan (1978-83). The
Government has now indicated that it will emphasize the rehabilitation and
improvement of existing highways. A highway inventory and investment study
is now being undertaken by a domestic consulting firm to identify future
priority projects and plans for the construction of the Indus Superhighway
have been deferred. During negotiations, Government gave assurances that
construction of the new Indus Highway will not proceed during the Plan period
1978-83, and agreed that IDA will be given the opportunity to review and
comment on Government's highway investment plan during the execution of the
project.
2.16      Except for the national highways, the provinces are responsible for
financing and executing the maintenance of all main roads. Funds for highway
maintenance are allocated from general provincial revenues, and are not tied
to road user revenues. A comparison of total road user revenues from provin-
cial taxes (road and bridge tolls, registration fees and licenses) with
maintenance expenditures during 1972/73 to 1976/77 indicates that provincial
road taxes were greater than maintenance expenditures (Rs 685 million to
Rs 452 million, Tables 4 and 5). However, there were deficits in Baluchistan
and in NWFP, and maintenance expenditures have been generally inadequate.
2.17      This lack of adequate maintenance funds has been one of the most
serious problems facing the provincial highways departments. In 1977/78, the
maintenance allocation averaged about Rs 3,500 or US$350 per km. For paved
roads only, the average was about Rs 5,000. In Pakistan, this amount covers
little more than the payment of permanent staff, routine maintenance, and
emergency repairs and does not allow for periodic or preventive maintenance.
A more appropriate expenditure level for paved main roads including periodic
maintenance would be about Rs 12,000 per km. Now that the Federal Government
has taken over the maintenance funding responsibility for national highways,
it is in a position to set an example for an adequate level of maintenance
expenditure. Ministry officials agree, and funds allocated for maintenance
of National Highways during 1979/80 have been increased about 60% above those
for the previous year, to about Rs 9,700 per km which is close to the
desirable target figure. Allocations in 1979/80 for provincial roads have
also been increased about 20% over the previous year. During negotiations
Government confirmed that a sum of about Rs 12,000 per km length (Rs 10,000
per mile of ten feet width) at current prices represented a reasonable esti-
mate of recurrent funds required for road maintenance at current traffic flows
and that Government intends to further increase maintenance allocations and
to maintain them at an adequate level.  The Government also confirmed that it
will discuss by March 31 each year with the Association the adequacy of pro-
posed road maintenance funding for the following year and the actual expendi-
tures attained in the previous year.
2.18      The funding of capital projects is the responsibility of the Federal
Government. As with maintenance, federal road user revenues (fuel and tire
taxes, and import duties on vehicles) have exceeded road construction expend-
itures during 1973-77 (Rs 5.7 to 4.5 billion, Tables 4 and 6) and there is no



- 12 -
tying of funds. Fuel taxes alone amounted to 73% of highway construction and
maintenance expenditures in 1976/77. While the road sector appears to be
"paying its own way", a substantial increase in expenditure will be needed in
future years in light of the present condition of the road network and the
increasing volume of traffic.
D.   Technical Aspects of Highway Construction and Maintenance
2.19      Pakistan has an ancient system of road communications which, until
quite recently, developed slowly and generally in time with the demands
placed upon it. Within the last two decades, a rapid rise in road traffic
has exceeded both the traffic capacity and the pavement strength of many roads.
Of the two, structural overloading is far more serious. While exceeding the
traffic capacity is undesirable, it can be borne at the cost of some inconve-
nience and temporary economic loss, but structural overloading, together with
inadequate maintenance, is already causing complete failure on major highways
and if allowed to continue, will result in the loss of whole sections of the
highway system.
2.20      The structural overloading of highway pavements is due to a combina-
tion of many vehicles with axle loads higher than the legal maximum (8 tons)
on pavements which are well past the end of their economic life. Limited
surveys taken during the preparation of the project show that about half of
the total truck fleet is habitually overloaded so that one axle per vehicle
is about 25% over the legal maximum weight of eight tons. The damaging
effect of one such axle is equal to between two and three of maximum legal
weight. More recently, since December 1978 the National Logistic Cell (NLC),
which has full responsibility for the emergency movement of wheat and fer-
tilizer, is said to have loaded their single rear axle trucks with 15 ton
loads, so producing a rear axle load equivalent to 20 to 25 standard axles
of the maximum legal limit. This was done during a period of emergency, and
as Government has indicated, strict enforcement of the legal maximum could
restrict the movement of vital commodities, leading to price rises and a
significant increase in commercial transport rates. However, in the light
of the extreme overloading which the NLC trucks produced, Government confirmed
during negotiations that in future, NLC single rear axle trucks will be loaded
to a maximum of 11 tons during the dry season and 5.5 tons during the monsoon
season. It was further agreed that orders for future additions to the fleet
of NLC will be either for articulated or multi-axle vehicles, imposing lower
axle loads than the existing fleet. In addition, terms of reference were
agreed at negotiations for a study of possible long term alternative methods
to deal with axle overloading.
2.21      Soil conditions and material availability vary considerably through-
out the country. NWFP and Baluchistan soils are generally good and road
building materials are usually readily available. Over most of Punjab and
Sind Provinces, where the heaviest traffic flows occur, there is a marked
scarcity of good materials and subgrade soils are usually poor. Historically,
the situation has been overcome by using overburnt brick for road construction,
but even the most careful control of burning, using traditional methods, does
not give a pavement material fully suitable for modern traffic loads, while



- 13 -
rising labor rates are eroding the price advantage that use of bricks formerly
enjoyed.  Typical subgrade soils in Punjab and Sind compact at optimum mois-
ture contents close to the plastic limit so that even a small moisture
increase results in serious strength loss. Much of the area is subject to
annual flooding; and high soil salinity, the result of long term irrigation,
tends to attract and retain soil moisture.
2.22      In Punjab and Sind, some riverbeds contain extensive sand deposits,
and although these are often poorly graded, admixture with the subgrade soils
does give a substantially improved material.  Unfortunately, the proportion
that has to be added is high, typically about 20 or 30%, but where sand hauls
are short, improvement of subgrade by this means is economic. Limestone and
quartz stone quarries exist, but hauls are long and may extend to 200 km. The
quality of the stone produced is sometimes very variable and constant checks
are required to ensure the necessary quality of the stone. This stone makes
suitable base and surfacing material, although with such long hauls, it may
become economic to use a bitumen-bound base in place of the more normal water
bound or compacted stone base, where the saving in thickness more than offsets
the higher unit cost. Bitumen bound bases also have the advantage that during
construction, traffic can be routed directly over them, with consequent
savings in traffic diversion costs.
2.23      Standards of workmanship have tended to deteriorate over the years
so that, for example, so-called water bound base may be no more than a poorly
compacted layer of crushed stone with no attempt made to fill the voids.
Preconstruction testing for design purposes is often not adequate, and effec-
tive quality control during construction is often lacking. With highway con-
struction costs so high due to long material hauls and poor soils, there are
considerable advantages to be gained from careful pre-design testing to
select the most economical design, and thorough quality control during con-
struction to avoid subsequent failure and wastage of expensive materials. In
the Project, provision to ensure adequate construction supervision has been
included (para 3.06).
2.24      Provincial government highway maintenance relies on road gangs who
carry out routine maintenance, while periodic maintenance is done on an ad hoc
basis as funds and equipment are available. The effect of increased traffic
loads on inadequate pavements is that Provincial Highway Departments tend to
be constantly involved in emergency repairs to keep traffic flowing, with the
result that periodic maintenance to prevent further failures cannot be tackled.
The situation is worsened by a chronic shortage of funds for highway main-
tenance and low staff productivity.
2.25      In Punjab Province, the United Kingdom Overseas Development Admin-
istration (UK ODA) has under consideration a project to assist in improving
road maintenance. A t 2.2 million (US$5 million) tied aid project would (i)
make possible an adequate level of routine maintenance by provision of motor
graders; (ii) improve the rate at which periodic maintenance is carried out by
supplying five sets of equipment for resealing; (iii) provide Bailey bridging
for emergency conditions; (iv) provide general back-up support to the Highway



- 14 -
Department's equipment fleet by supplying low-loaders, workshop equipment and
spares; and (v) provide technical assistance in stores operation, spares
procurement and preventive maintenance of equipment 1. Similar assistance
on a smaller scale which emphasizes periodic maintenance needs, has been
included in this project for other provinces (para 3.08).
E.   The Domestic Construction Industry
2.26      There are a very large number of active contractors in Pakistan but
the great majority are small-scale and act only as suppliers of labor, having
usually no equipment and possibly not even hand tools. At the upper end of
the scale, there are a few, including several quasi-government organizations,
who have substantial amounts of equipment and can handle contracts up to a
value of several million US dollars annually. Between these limits there are
a few dozen firms, mostly located in Karachi and Lahore, who have technically
qualified staff, equipment such as concrete mixers and rollers and the exper-
ience of handling contracts up to a value of about US$1.0 million annually.
Contractors generally have had more experience in building construction than
in highway work, and apart from locally made steel wheeled rollers, few
domestic contractors hold equipment suitable for highway construction.
Where contractors have had highway experience, it has usually been with the
traditional contracting arrangement for using labor-intensive methods.
2.27      Under the 1976 Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 466-PAK), IDA
financed a study of the construction industry which updated a previous study
undertaken in 1974. The study included an extensive survey of contractors
and their needs. Contractors have indicated that they would be prepared to
invest in equipment to enlarge their operations providing they had some
assurance of continuing work and reasonable credit terms. Within the context
of Pakistan, it is difficult to ensure a continuing work program on a planned
basis, although there is a great deal of rehabilitation and improvement work
suitable for contractors that will have to be done to keep the infrastructure
in a serviceable condition. During the preparation of this Project, GOP indi-
cated that they would like to encourage the development of a private road
contracting industry. To promote continuity a study of investment needs
of the road network is now being undertaken (para 2.15), a program to undertake
periodic maintenance by contractors will be established (para 3.17) and funds
will be allocated in this Project to prepare a future project (para 3.03).
2.28      Suppliers of credit are wary about making advances to finance equip-
ment for contractors unless the contractor is able to put up sufficient immove-
able security to cover the advance and interest due, and few are able to do
this. Even to arrange performance bonds is difficult, since the commercial
banks normally require about 40% cash deposit, which they hold without in-
terest, plus 140% in security. Bonds are therefore usually arranged through
1/   During negotiations GOP agreed that in the event that no arrangements
are finalized by March 1980 with the United Kingdom for financing a
program of road maintenance in Punjab, it may arrange funds from another
source or woulld request IDA to assist in financing such maintenance
;_   U JIetr the Credit.



- 15 -
private insurance companies in return for substantial premiums. Short-term
advances at the start of a contract, usually limited to 30 days' duration,
are available through the contractors' own banks once the contractor has
established a reputation for sound operation, but the advances are limited in
size and not suitable for financing equipment purchase. Contractors often
request and receive an advance of up to 20% of the contract sum at the start
of work, and thereafter obtain payment for work done generally within a month
to six weeks of submission of payment certificates. To increase the avail-
ability of credit on reasonable terms, Project funds will be allocated to the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for on-lending to contractors
(para 3.09).
2.29       As many contractors operate as suppliers of labor only and are
dependent on others for equipment, tools and expertise, in the case of
government contracts, the government engineer in charge takes a greater part
in job organization and assumes more power than is usual in most countries.
Because the contractor does not have the ability to organize and run the
contract, he does not feel he has full responsibility for the work done.
The contractual relationship between client (government) and contractor is
inequitable under local contract conditions, and there is a need to arrive
at a more equal relationship, with contractors having more rights and more
responsibilities than at present. Possible ways to strengthen management
and improve the conditions of contracts will be investigated through tech-
nical assistance provided through the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(para 3.10).
F.   First and Second Highway Projects
2.30       The First Highway Project with Bank Group support (Cr. 54-PAK for
US$17 million in 1964) encompassed (i) the final engineering and construction
of a new 142 km highway between Karachi and Hyderabad; (ii) the review,
design, supervision and construction for three major bridges; (iii) the employ-
ment of general consultants for a three-year period to advise and assist the
West Pakistan Highway Department on matters of organization and operation; and
(iv) consulting engineering services to carry out feasibility studies of access
to Karachi and Hyderabad. According to the Project Performance Audit dated
March 12, 1976, the implementation of the project's components was generally
considered satisfactory. Only a small cost overrun was incurred (7%) and the
road and bridge constructions were completed mostly on schedule. Unfortu-
nately, some claims were handled slowly and finally required international
arbitration. Delays were also incurred in the creation of a separate highway
department. While the consultants were believed to have made positive con-
tributions to the Highway Department their real impact was difficult to assess
because of the broad nature of their assignment and the subsequent complete
reorganization of the Highway Department along Provincial lines. With the
larger than projected increase in traffic, the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway now
needs an overlay. During negotiations, Government confirmed that a program
for the overlay will be commence before June 30, 1980 and be completed before
June 30, 1984.
2.31       The Second Highway Project (Loan 578-PAK for US$35.0 million in
1968) consisted of (i) the construction of two trunk highways west of Lahore



- 16 -
totalling about 270 kilometers; (ii) consultant services to (a) continue
assistance in reorganizing the West Pakistan Highway Department, (b) prepare
a transport study for West Pakistan and (c) study and partially design
two trunk roads. In order to prepare the Second Highway Project, a highway
engineering project (Cr. S-I PAK, US$1 million) was signed in 1966. The
Highway Engineering Project progressed slowly; instead of 15 months as esti-
mated at appraisal, it took about 50. When bids were finally called in mid
1970 it was found that the cost was three times the original estimate. This
was due to a variety of reasons such as inflation (about 30% of difference),
the complexity of estimating construction costs, the risks involved in the
unstable political situation and the fear of payment difficulties. Attempts
were made to reconstitute the project with less ambitious investments, but
Government was reluctant to utilize loan financing, and in July 1971 the
Government and the Bank agreed to cancel the uncommitted balance of US$33.9
million. The transport coordination study, which was the only component of
the Second Highway Project completed, has been considered satisfactory and
appears to have had some impact on the transport coordination policy (para
1.22).
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background
3.01      Building on the experience gained in the first and second highway
projects, several features have been incorporated into the Third Highway
Project.  Firstly, as recommended in the transport coordination study the
project will concentrate on the rehabilitation and improvement of existing
roads rather than on the construction of new highways. Secondly, as there
are still a number of uncertainties in Pakistan, bids were-received on the
rehabilitation and improvement before undertaking negotiations. Thirdly,
concerning institutional improvements, the objectives are much more limited
in scope.
3.02      The general objective of the project is to assist the development
of the road transportation sector so that it can effectively fulfill the
transport demands of the directly productive sectors of the economy. More
specifically the project objectives are to:
(a) rehabilitate high-priority roads;
(b) improve road maintenance capabilities at both federal and
provincial levels;
(c) encourage the development of domestic consulting and con-
tracting industries; and
(d) improve project planning and administration.



- 17 -
B.   Description
3.03      The project consists of three main components:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of up to 280 km of national
and provincial roads;
(b) maintenance of national and provincial roads; and
(c) assistance to the domestic construction industry.
Included in these components are technical assistance and training. In addi-
tion, funds are allocated for the preparation of a future project in order
to provide continuity for rehabilitation and improvement works.
Road Rehabilitation
3.04      In 1976 a Third Highway Project Cell was established within the
MOC to prepare the present project. Six domestic consulting firms were
contracted in order to undertake feasibility and technical studies for the
rehabilitation and improvement of 1600 km of national and provincial roads
which had been jointly identified by IDA and Government officials. To
support the development of the domestic consulting industry and to strengthen
project planning, Louis Berger Inc. (US) was contracted (GOP financed) to
provide technical assistance to the Project Cell for the coordination of the
preparation studies. While rehabilitation was economically feasible on almost
all selected road sections only about 800 km were selected for final design
based on economic priority and expected available Government resources.
However, because the final engineering studies indicated that the structural
strength of the pavement was lower than indicated in the feasibility studies
and that there was a greater need to raise embankments, construction cost
estimates substantially increased. Finally, more recently, the June 1979
Budget proposals resulted in very considerable cost increases in a number
of construction materials such as bitumen and cement. It is intended that
further sections, designs for which are already completed, shall be included
in future projects.
3.05      The road sections include those which are in most serious danger
of failure on or near the main Karachi - Peshawar road. During the 1978
monsoon season, several portions of this road were completely closed to
traffic for several days while emergency repairs were carried out. The
road sections selected for rehabilitation, as shown on Map 14188 R IBRD are:



- 18 -
Road Section                               Length (km)
NWFP
Peshawar - Charsada (Provincial)             27.6
Khairabad - Nowshera (National)               29.0
Punjab
Part of Lahore Sahiwal (National)   up to 125.0
Sind
Part of Kandiaro-Rohri                up to 100.0
up to 281.6
The proposed rehabilitation work consists mainly of raising the existing roads
in low areas, widening where width is substandard, pavement strengthening and
resurfacing. All the road sections currently have a two-lane pavement width
ranging from 6 to 7.3 m and averaging about 6.7 m.  These will be widened to
the standard width of 7.3 m with asphaltic concrete surfacing. The proposed
design standards are shown on Table 7.
3.06      Supervision is expected to be carried out by the domestic consulting
firms, who undertook the final designs, with assistance from the Coordinating
Consultants attached to the Third Highway Project Cell, which has recently been
incorporated into the Director General of National Highways (DGNH) under the
National Highways Board (NHB). The co-ordinating Consultants' Team will
consist of a team leader, and two superintending resident engineers who will
be replaced by MOC staff in the second year of the project subject to a review
and satisfactory performance. In addition, the assistance of a soils engineer
and paving specialist are needed to establish quality control procedures for
the rehabilitation works. During negotiation Government confirmed their
agreement to the terms of reference for the technical assistance in Annex 1
which were discussed during the Appraisal mission.
Road Maintenance
3.07      On the national highway system, the Federal Government has under-
taken financial and administrative responsibility and delegated the execution
of the maintenance work to the provinces. As part of the Project, the Ministry
of Communications plans to establish a monitoring system to supervise and
administer the national highway system, for which the organizational structure
has already been established (Chart No. 3). Such a system would be as simple
and as practical as possible, taking into account the initial poor data base.
Of key importance is that frequent field inspection trips be made and that the
inspector be of sufficient stature and competency to have a good rapport with
senior provincial highway officials. In addition, equipment for one periodic
road maintenance unit consisting of an asphalt distributor, a preheater, chip-
spreader and compactor, tipper trucks, rollers and ancillary equipment (Table
8) is to be provided for the Federal Government under the project. This
unit will act principally as a production training unit for the duration of
this project for personnel from both the provincial highway departments and



- 19 -
the contractors. The technical assistance team attached to the Third Highway
Project Cell would support both the maintenance monitoring system and the
maintenance training unit. In addition at the federal level, a study to
consider alternative methods of dealing with axle overloading will be under-
taken (para 2.20).
3.08      At the provincial level, project emphasis will be mainly concen-
trated on improving periodic road maintenance in order to arrest further
deterioration. One resealing unit similar to the Federal unit, will be
provided to NWFP, while in Baluchistan, the equipment proposed will serve
to improve the efficiency of the present overlay program being carried out
on main routes and of regraveling on unsurfaced routes. Technical assistance
will start operation of the soils and materials laboratories and improve
planning and design in both NWFP and Baluchistan and provide practical
assistance in workshop operation in Baluchistan.
Domestic Road Construction Industry
3.09      An independent and technically qualified construction industry
would greatly assist Government in the execution of its development plans.
Assistance will be channeled through the IDBP to provide domestic contractors
with advice in company and site management and funds to procure construction
equipment to undertake the rehabilitation and improvement of Project roads.
The same facility will be made available to domestic contractors to carry out
a periodic maintenance program which will be implemented during the Project.
3.10      The Bank Group is familiar with IDBP, having had a previous project
(Cr. 177-PAK) for US$20.0 million in 1970. An evaluation of IBDP can be found
in Annex 2 and is supported by detailed information and data in the project
file. Since lending to the domestic construction industry will be a new type
of business for IDBP it will be assisted by a road construction specialist.
His function will be to advise and assist IDBP with the review of contractors'
loan applications and the supervision of the subprojects (Annex 3). He will
also provide assistance to the contractors in management, in particular in the
utilization of equipment, and make recommendations to IDBP, GOP and/or IDA for
further improvements to the domestic construction industry including adjust-
ment of contract conditions to modern requirements.
C.   Cost Estimates
3.11      The total cost of the project including taxes is estimated at US$93
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$34 million equiva-
lent (36%). Estimated costs by year are given in Table 9 and more cost
details are given in Tables 10-15. A summary of project cost estimates is
presented on the following page.
3.12      The costs of road rehabilitation are based on bids received on
July 12, 1979 from eight enterprises, five of which were accepted as being
valid bidders. The US$5.0 million allocation to IDBP to loan to the domestic
construction industry is based on a "best estimate" of the likely number of
domestic contractors who will be awarded contracts and their likely equipment
needs. Estimates for equipment and technical assistance are also based on



PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Millions of Rupees                     Millions of Dollars
Local     Foreign   Total               Local      Foreign    Total
I.  Road Rehabilitation
(a)  Civil Works                             303.8      182.3     486.1               30.69      18.41      49.10
(b)  Supervision                              25.1        5.9      31.0                2.53         .60      3.13
Total 1                               328.9      188.2     517.1               33.22      19.01      52.23
IT.  Road Maintenance
(c)  Equipment                                 1.4       13.1      14.5                 .14        1.32      1.46
(d)  Federal Highway Technical Assistance      0.2        0.7       0.9                 .02         .07       .09
(e)  Provincial Highway Technical Assistance  0.4         5.7       6.1                 .04         .58       .62
(f)  Technical Assistance for Axle-
Weight Study                            0.5        0.1       0.6                 .05         .01       .06
Total II                                2.5       19.6      22.1                 .25       1.98       2.23
III.  Domestic Construction Industry
(g)  IDBP                                       -        45.9      45.9                  -        5,00       5.00
(h)  Technical Assistance (UNDP Financed)      0.2        1.2       1.4                 .02         .12       .14
Total III                               0.2       50.7      50.9                 .02       5.12       5.14
IV.  Project Preparation
(i)  Proposed Third Highway Pro ect           23.1        3.1      26.2                2.34         .31      2.65
(i)  Possible Fourtl Highway Project           3.2        0.8       4.0                 .32        .08        .40
Total IV                               26.3        3.9      30.2                2.66        .39       3.05
TOTAL PROJECT (I, II, III & IV)              357.9      262.4     620.3               36.15       26.50     62.65
Total Quantity Contingency             33.3      20.0       53.3                3.36       2.02       5.38
Total Price Contingency                88.9      52.8      141.7                8.98       5.33      14.31
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES                     480.1      335.2     815.3               48.49       33.85     82.34
Taxes                           107.2       -        107.2               10.83        -        10.83
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES & TAXES             587.3      335.2     922.5               59.32       33.85     93.17



- 21 -
recent prices for similar items and on recent technical assistance proposals
respectively, both under similar circumstances. The total cost of providing
101 man-months of technical assistance to the Third Highway Project Cell is
estimated to be about US$880,000. The average man month cost including salary
cost, fee, international travel and subsistance is about US$8,300. The
supervision of the rehabilitation works will require about 1,000 professional
man months of domestic consultancy services with a total cost of US$2.4 mil-
lion equivalent and a man month cost of about US$1,100 equivalent. In addi-
tion, technical assistance to the Provincial Departments in NWFP and
Baluchistan and to IDBP total about 104 man months costing about US$750,000
with a man month cost of about US$7,000. A quantity contingency of 5% has
been added on equipment and spares and 10% on all other items except the Third
Highway Project preparation studies and assistance to the domestic construction
industry. For price increases on foreign exchange items an annual increase of
6% has been allowed on equipment and 7% on other items. On local costs, a
15% annual increase has been allowed in 1979, 12% in 1980 and 10% in 1981
and 1982. 1/
D.   Financing
3.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$50.0 million will finance about 54%
of the total cost (about 60% excluding taxes and duties). The credit would
therefore cover foreign exchange cost plus about US$16.0 million of local
cost. Included in this amount is US$1.0 million for retroactive financing for
project preparation work which consists of US$320,000 of foreign exchange for
international services and US$680,000 of local costs for international and
domestic consultancy services. In addition to IDA financing, the UNDP has
agreed to finance the IDBP road construction advisor and a project document
was signed during March 1979. As shown in Table 12, the amount to be financed
by UNDP is estimated at US$144,000. The remaining project costs would amount
to about US$43.0 million equivalent including US$11.0 million equivalent for
taxes and duties and would be met by Government. During negotiation IDA
discussed and agreed with Government that adequate local cost financing
would be made available in a timely manner.
E.   Implementation
3.14      The project will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Communications. Within the Ministry, the DGNH under the NHB will execute
and coordinate the various project activities. IDBP will be responsible for
relending funds to domestic road contractors. Technical assistance will
be provided to assist in the execution of various project components. The
timing of implementation of the various project components is shown in Chart
4 (IBRD 20742).
Road Rehabilitation
3.15      As a result of negotiations with bidders in November 1979, Letters
of Intent have been issued for three road sections and rebids for three other
1/   This is based on a projection of the investment deflator in Pakistan
which is currently increasing at a 15% annual rate.



- 22 -
contracts are due in late January 1980. The award of the civil works contracts
will be completed before credit effectiveness. The works in NWFP are expected
to be completed in two years. The other larger road sections between Lahore
and Sahiwal in Punjab and the Kandiaro - Rohri in Sind, are expected to be
completed in three years. Supervision will start at the commencement of the
project in the case of the Coordinating Consultants whose contract has already
been agreed with Government for signature in January 1980, and a schedule of
their services is presented in Chart 5 (IBRD 20131). Contracts for construc-
tion supervision by domestic consultants will be awarded before credit effec-
tiveness.  In the consultants' contracts allowance is being made for super-
vision and inspection during the maintenance period after construction is
complete.
Road Maintenance
3.16      During negotiations details on a monitoring system for the National
Highways were discussed and it was agreed that, by March 31, 1980, a system
would be implemented with the help of the technical assistance team to the
DGNH.  Specifications for the maintenance equipment for Federal Government,
NWFP and Baluchistan will be prepared by the DGNH with the assistance of the
Coordinating Consultant.  The Federal Government resealing team will be used
for training and emphasis will be given to the organization and correct exe-
cution of work.  About 15 to 20 foremen, operators and mechanics at a time
will be sent to work with the Federal team for periods of about two months
each. To allow for possible losses to other employment, at least twice the
number necessary will be trained, and the total, including contractors' per-
sonnel (para 3.07) will amount to about 160 men during the project period.
During negotiations it was agreed with Government that a road maintenance
training program satisfactory to IDA would commence by December 31, 1980.
Also, the study of vehicle axle overloadings will be completed by September 30,
1980, with an agreed plan of action by December 31, 1980 and implementation
commencing by March 1981.
Domestic Road Construction Industry
3.17      Initial discussions between IDBP and domestic bidders for rehabili-
tation work took place while the bids were being assessed and sub-loans will
be finalized after contracts are awarded. GOP's relending conditions to IDBP
and IDBP's lending conditions to contractors are detailed in Annex 2, and
these were discussed and agreed at negotiations. IDA will act as the execut-
ing agency for the UNDP financing of the construction advisor, who arrived
in Pakistan while project negotiations were in progress. Once procurement
arrangements are finalized with domestic contractors undertaking the rehabili-
tation works, attention can be turned towards contractors undertaking mainte-
nance work. During negotiations Government agreed to prepare the periodic
maintenance program which will be suitable for domestic contractors by June 30,
1980 and begin implementation of the program by December 31, 1980. Contractors
will be required to have sufficiently trained staff or send their staff to
participate in the training scheme for road maintenance.



- 23 -
Preparation for Future Project
3.18      Since final designs already exist for nearly 600 km of road and a
road investment survey is now being undertaken, future project studies need
not start until after a period of about 18 months. At that time, if the
projects for which designs have already been prepared are not in execution
cost estimates will be updated. In addition, other road sections may be
included or substituted with the approval of the Association. Based on
the experience gained in the preparation of the Third Highway Project, it
is expected that further studies can be carried out by the DGNH using domestic
consultants. The Coordinating Consultant would also be available to provide
assistance as necessary.
F.   Procurement
3.19      At the time of negotiations, the following procurement arrangements
were discussed and agreed with GOP:
(a)  Road rehabilitation contracts, undertaken on the basis
of international competitive bidding, with a 7-1/2% pre-
ference to domestic firms, in accordance with IDA's
"Guidelines for Procurement" will be submitted to IDA
for review before issuance of award;
(b)  Technical assistance will be provided by qualified and
experienced consultants and experts on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
(c)  Maintenance equipment will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding with a 15% preference, or
the amount of the import tariff, whichever is less, allowed
on locally assembled items in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines
for Procurement". Items costing under $25,000 equivalent
with a total not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent could be
procured locally under GOP's normal procedures, which are
acceptable to the Association. IDA will review contracts,
specifications and related documentation for all bids esti-
mated to cost US$25,000 equivalent or more; and
(d)  Procurement of equipment by contractors will be in accordance
with IDBP's normal procurement procedures, which are accept-
able to IDA. The road construction advisor will assist
IDBP and the contractors with procurement decisions.
G.   Disbursements
3.20      Disbursements from the credit account which were discussed and
agreed with GOP during negotiation would be made on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 40% of local expenditures
for rehabilitation and improvement works;



- 24 -
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment, spare parts and
supplies including laboratory equipment, training aids and
training materials; or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured goods; and 60% of local
expenditures for other goods procured locally (off-the-shelf);
(c) 100% of amounts disbursed on account of foreign expendi-
tures of IDBP sub-loans made to the construction
industry; and
(d) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services and advisors,
with a maximum of US$1.0 million for retroactive financing.
All disbursements will be fully documented.  Based on the above
and on the implementation schedule (Chart 3), the schedule of disbursements
(Table 16) has been prepared.
3.21      In case the allocated funds to IDBP were not fully committed to
contractors of the Third Highway Project after 18 months, funds could be lent
to domestic contractors engaged in other road works in Pakistan to assist the
general development of the road construction industry.
H.   Environmental Effects
3.22      The proposed rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance works will
be carried out on existing roads and, except for very short sections where
curves are being realigned, within the existing road right-of-way. The Proj-
ect is not expected to have any detrimental effects on the environment and it
should improve the rural environment by providing better access to markets,
schools and medical facilities.
I.   Monitoring and Reporting
3.23      During the implementation of the Project, quarterly reports out-
lining the progress and problems encountered will be submitted to IDA. In
addition, the Government will prepare a Project Completion Report within six
months after the closing of the project. Details of Project monitoring and
reporting, as shown in Annex 4, were agreed during negotiations.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      Road transport plays an important role in the economy of Pakistan --
accounting for about 62% of total ton kilometers and 80% of total passenger
kilometers. The Project is designed to prevent deterioration of vital road
sections of Pakistan's transport system. These road sections carry signifi-
cant traffic volumes since they serve important centers of economic activity.
They have exceeded their economic life and the break up of the roads will
accelerate even with intensive maintenance; transport costs will rise; and



- 25 -
the economy will suffer as transport requirements are not met economically.
As witnessed during the last monsoon when some main roads were closed for
several days, this process is already happening.
4.02      Most of the benefits will accrue in terms of reduction of vehicle
operating costs. When the road is improved, significant savings will result in
fuel consumption, tire wear and vehicle maintenance and depreciation. Also,
future road reconstruction costs will be delayed. In addition, the Project
is expected to yield significant institutional benefits in terms of improved
project planning and execution capacity, improved road maintenance and
expansion of domestic contractor capabilities.
4.03      Benefits from the proposed road Project will be widely distributed.
In the case of transportation of goods, since trucking is competitive, most
of the transport savings will be passed on from the transporter to the con-
sumer in terms of lower prices and increased product availability. For
passenger transport, because rates are currently fixed by Government, the
transport savings will accrue at first to the bus owners, both public and
private. However, in the long run lower and middle income groups should
benefit when rates increases are deferred to reflect changes in costs.
4.04      Benefits have been measured separately for the road rehabilitation
and maintenance components. Benefits have not been quantified separately for
the road construction industry component. Where appropriate, the costs of
supervision and technical assistance have been added to the costs of the
various components when calculating the economic rates of return. Details of
the calculation of benefits and costs can be found in the consultant's reports
and in the Project file. A weighted average rate of return (ER), of about
50% for the entire Project is estimated based on an evaluation of 91% of
the project costs for which benefits have been quantified.
B.  Road Rehabilitation
4.05      Most of the road sections for rehabilitation lie along the newly
designated national highway which runs from Karachi to Peshawar (about 2,000
km) and connects the major cities of Hyderabad, Multan, Lahore, Gujranwala,
Rawalpindi and Islamabad. Not only are the major cities connected by this
route, but the road traverses the major agricultural production areas of the
country, and thus provides important access for the marketing of agricultural
products. Traffic surveys undertaken during the preparation of the project
indicate that about 30% of the traffic involves long distance inter-provincial
trips while the remaining 70% of the trips were intra-district and intra-
provincial.
4.06      Present traffic volumes on the project sections vary from about
3,000-3,500 ADT in rural areas to about 3,500-4,000 ADT nearer the large
urban areas. About 70% of the volume of traffic in rural areas is heavy
traffic (trucks 55%, buses 15%). The projected traffic growth rate ranged
from about 5 to 9% per annum for individual road sections and vehicle types
(Table 17).
4.07      During the feasibility studies, several levels of rehabilitation
and improvement were analyzed over a 20 year period. This was done by



- 26 -
undertaking investment programs which were designed to maintain different
levels of service based on the Highway Design Manual. 1/ The studies indi-
cated that the highest returns were obtainable by rehabilitating the existing
two lane road rather than the construction of a new four lane facility. These
results reconfirm the conclusion of the transport coordination survey carried
out under the Second Highway Project (para 3.01).
4.08      In the final feasibility analysis the vehicle operating costs were
projected both without and with the proposed rehabilitation project over a
10 year period, after construction. The user costs were prepared by the
coordinating consultant and took into account fuel, oil, tire consumption,
vehicle maintenance, depreciation and operator time costs. The differences
in operating costs or savings were then compared with bid construction costs
and net maintenance costs. To facilitate processing and study of various
alternatives, IDA's computerized Highway Design Model was utilized and the
computer runs are in the project file.
4.09      The economic rates of return (ERs) for rehabilitation and improve-
ment of the project road sections are estimated to vary from 41 to 85%,
(Table 18). These returns are high, but they are not unusual for this type
of rehabilitation project with high traffic volumes. A sensitivity test,
assuming a shorter 5 year project life to allow for the major risk that the
pavement was not properly constructed, yields ERs ranging from 35 to 75%.
Assuming that benefits decreased by 20% and costs increased by 20%, the ERs
would range from 29 to 54%. With such high returns the risks of poor con-
struction, higher costs and lower traffic volumes appear to be within reason-
able limits and the projects are recommended.
C.   Road Maintenance
4.10      The proposed Project would include the establishment of two periodic
maintenance units under Federal Government and in NWFP and some maintenance
equipment to Baluchistan. In addition training and technical assistance would
be provided. The main justification for this component is that it will pre-
vent the roads from reaching a stage where they incur serious damages and
thus would necessitate rehabilitation and reconstruction. As with rehabili-
tation, the main benefits of the maintenance component would be obtained in
terms of a reduction in user costs. It is estimated that each periodic
maintenance unit can undertake about 100 km of resurfacing per year. The
average daily traffic for the type of roads to be resurfaced is estimated to
be about 400 vehicles per day. The evaluation only considers benefits derived
from a reduction in tire wear, maintenance parts and labor costs which are
most sensitive to changes in road roughness; other key assumptions and
calculations are shown on Table 19.
4.11      The evaluation indicated that the maintenance component will have
an ER of 120%. As is the case with most maintenance projects the rates of
return are extremely high because the construction cost involved (patching and
1/   American Association of State Highway Officials 1965.



- 27 -
resealing) is relatively small, while nearly full benefits are obtained from
the improvement of the riding surface and prevention of further deterioration.
If the average ADT were reduced by 20% and production rates were not as high
as expected with costs increasing by 20%, the ER would still be high at about
70%. As with the rehabilitation and improvement works the risks appear to be
acceptable and the project component is recommended.
Road Construction Industry
4.12      Assistance to the domestic construction industry includes the chan-
nelling of the funds through IDBP for the purchase of construction equipment
and technical assistance. The main benefit from this component is that a
start will be made towards the development of an efficient road construction
industry. The justification for the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
works which includes the cost of equipment has been demonstrated above. Al-
though experience in other countries has indicated higher productivity and
lower costs by contracting, Project construction costs will be closely moni-
tored in order that they may be compared with other methods of construction
in order to obtain a measurement of construction cost savings.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the following specific aspects of the project
were discussed and it was agreed that:
(a) construction of the new Indus Highway will not
proceed during the Plan period 1978-83 (para 2.15);
(b) IDA will be given the opportunity to review and comment on
Government's highway sector investment plans (para 2.15);
(c)  Government had made a substantial increase in maintenance
allocations for the highways during 1979-80 and that
Government intends, based on a target allocation, to
increase and maintain maintenance expenditure at an
adequate level which will be discussed annually with
IDA (para 2.17);
(d)  the overlay of the Karachi-Hyderabad Highway will commence
by June 30, 1980 and be completed before June 30, 1984
(para 2.30); and
(e) adequate local cost financing will be made available
in a timely manner (para 3.13);
(f) a monitoring system for the national highways will be
implemented by March 31, 1980 (para 3.16);



- 28 -
(g) a road maintenance training program satisfactory to IDA
will commence by December 31, 1980 (para 3.16);
(h) Government will complete a study of long-term alterna-
tive methods of dealing with vehicle overloading, by
September 30, 1980, with an agreed plan of action by
December 31, 1980 and implementation commencing by
March 31, 1981 (para 3.16);
(i) Government's relending conditions to IDBP and IDBP's
lending conditions to contractors will be as set out
in Annex II hereof (para 3.17); and
(j) a periodic road maintenance program suitable for con-
tractors will be prepared by June 30, 1980 and imple-
mentation will begin by December 31, 1980 (para 3.17).
5.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness are that:
(a) Province Project Agreements and the IDBP Project
Agreement shall have been duly authorized and
ratified;
(b) GOP and IDBP shall have entered into a satisfactory
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) GOP shall have entered into contracts with consultants
to carry out supervision; and
(d) GOP shall have entered into contracts with contractors
to carry out the rehabilitation works. .
5.03      The Project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$50
million equivalent to Pakistan. A portion of the credit, US$5.0 million,
will be relent to IDBP at 8%. Repayment by IDBP to Government will be made
on a flexible amortization schedule in approximate conformity with repayments
received by IDBP from sub-borrowers up to a maximum period of fifteen years.



- 29 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Provision of Coordinating Consultancy Services
Terms of Reference
A.   Background
1.        The Government of Pakistan has prepared a highway rehabilitation
and maintenance project which has been appraised by the International Devel-
opment Association (IDA). The Government intends to seek a credit under IDA
terms to enable the project to be carried out within a period of about three
years, commencing in early 1980. The project will consist of:
(a) rehabilitation by contract of up to 280 km of national
and primary highways;
(b) improvement of highway maintenance;
(c) assistance to the domestic contracting industry; and
(d) technical assistance and future project preparation.
2.        The principal objectives of the project are to strengthen the
Federal and Provincial Highway authorities, encourage the development of the
domestic construction industry, and improve the road network according to
sound economic and engineering standards.
3.        In order to assist Government to undertake the project, it is de-
sired to retain the services of a recognized and experienced firm of consult-
ing engineers to provide the services described herein.
B.   Scope of Consultancy Services
General
4.        The Coordinating Consultant will be attached to the Directorate
General of National Highways. In the conduct of their work, the Coordinating
Consultants will cooperate fully with the Ministry of Communications of the
Federal Government of Pakistan, Provincial Highways Departments and other
Government Ministries and Departments. The Government of Pakistan will
provide the facilities and services outlined in Part IV hereof.



-30 -                        ANNEX I
Page 2
5.        Survey and design of the roads selected for rehabilitation have been
completed, bids have been received and evaluated for some sections and Letters
of Intent issued to contractors.  It is expected that construction will com-
mence within three months of the start of the consultancy services, and that
individual construction contracts will be supervised by domestic consultants.
Award of Contracts for Road Rehabilitation
6.        In the event that award of contracts for rehabilitation or recon-
struction of highways has not been completed, the Coordinating Consultant
will assist Government to evaluate bids received on the basis of IDA Guide-
lines for Procurement, and will advise Government on the award of contracts
and during any negotiations with bidders.
Supervision of Road Rehabilitation Works
7.        The supervision of individual construction contracts is intended
to be carried out by domestic consultants. The Consultant will act as coor-
dinating agent for Government and the Consultants' duties will include, but
not necessarily be limited to:
(a)  ensuring that domestic consultants carry out all the obli-
gations required of them in accordance with the construction
contracts concluded between the Government and the contractor
or contractors for the works to be done under the project, and
bringing to the attention of Government any errors or omissions
on the part of the domestic consultants;
(b) ensuring that the set.ting out undertaken by the contractor
is adequately checked;
(c) advising and assisting domestic consultants, where required,
to set up and operate adequate quality control procedures,
and ensuring that such quality control procedures are effec-
tively applied to all necessary construction operations;
(d) advising Government on sections of the work which should be
accepted or rejected, as recommended by domestic consult-
ants;
(e) recommending to Government, after discussion with domestic
consultants, any reasonable changes in the plans, designs
and specifications which may prove necessary or desirable
during the course of the project, and advising on such
changes;
(f) making recommendations to Government on possible reductions
in expenditure during the course of construction;



- 31 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 3
(g) assisting domestic consultants, where necessary, to arrive
at suitable and economic job mix formulae for asphalt con-
crete surfacing and bituminous bound base materials;
(h) checking the progress of the works, amounts of materials
remaining in stock and payments to contractors, and advis-
ing Government in due time where any significant over-
expenditure appears likely;
(i) reviewing and countersigning monthly payment certificates/
and Completion Certificates prepared by domestic consult-
ants authorizing payments to contractors, as an indication
that the Coordinating Consultant is satisfied that super-
vision has been adequate and effective and that the work
completed has been in general accord with the design and
specifications;
(j) supervising, on behalf of Government, final measurements on
contracts, advising Government on remedial work to be done,
if any, accompanying domestic consultants on final inspections
and advising Government on payment of retention monies to
contractors;
(k) cooperating with domestic consultants to examine any claims
made by contractors for extension of time, payment for extra
work, revision of rates and any other similar matters, and
making recommendations to Government on the outcome; and
(1) assisting Government in settlement of disputes which may
arise between Government and contractors, but excluding
arbitration, for which separate arrangements will be made
if necessary.
Highway Maintenance
8.        The Coordinating Consultant will assist and support the Third
Highway Project maintenance activities, and in particular, assist:
(a) in the formulation and implementation of a practical road
maintenance inspection and monitoring system covering
National Highways;
(b) in coordinating on-the-job training activities for both
provincial and contractor personnel to be undertaken in
Punjab; and



- 32 -                       ANNEX I
Page 4
(c) in preparation and review of contracts for maintenance work
in Sind Province.
9.        In addition to the above the Coordinating Consultant will provide
liaison with the Road Construction Advisor assigned to the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) and assist, if necessary, with the preparation
of a possible future Fourth Highway Project.
C.   Staffing
10.       The Coordinating Consultant will maintain throughout Pakistan suf-
ficient and properly qualified and experienced staff to undertake the duties
described in para. 2.4 hereof. It is expected that the following staff will
be required:
1 Team Leader, who should be an highway engineer having experience
of contract management in a senior capacity;
2 or 3 superintending resident engineers to coordinate groups of
contracts supervised directly by one or more domestic con-
sultant firms;
i soils/materials engineer, part time, to advise on quality control
requirements and to supervise such control; and
l surfacing specialist, part time, to advise on mix formulae and
assist domestic consultants during the early stages of sur-
facing or bituminous bound base work.
11.       In addition, the Coordinating Consultants will also be prepared,
if required, to propose suitable staff for short period assignment to the
-project on similar terms to those agreed for the team supervising rehabili-
tation works.
D.   Records and Reports
12.       The Coordinating Consultant shall keep full records relating to
the performance of the work described in these terms of reference, and such
records will be available for inspection by Government at all times. The
superintending resident engineers will maintain clear, legible and comprehen-
sive diaries concerning the contracts for which they have responsibilities.
They will also ensure that domestic consultants and contractors keep a full
record of all relevant test results, and these will be available for inspec-
tion at all times.
13.       The Coordinating Consultant will prepare a concise but comprehen-
sive report at monthly intervals, outlining the progress of the work, general
performance of domestic consultants and of contractors, particular difficulties
encountered and a description of how they are to be overcome, and a forecast
of future work and expenditure. This report may be a resume of similar



- 33 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 5
reports made by domestic consultants, to which the Coordinating Consultants
have added explanation and comment. This monthly report will be delivered,
S copies to Government and 3 copies to IDA, through the IBRD Office in
Islamabad.
E.   Services and Facilities to be Provided by Government
14.       The following services and facilities will be provided by Government
to the Coordinating Consultants free of charge:
(a) suitably financed and equipped office accommodation in
Islamabad for the team leader together with telephone,
electricity, air conditioning, heating and toilet facil-
ities;
(b) suitably furnished and equipped office accommodation
for each superintending resident engineer, with similar
facilities;
(c) additional office accommodation with similar facilities,
as required, for team members on part time assignment;
(d) office and support staff to include typists (English
language), clerks, cleaners, watchmen and drivers;
(e) stationery and office equipment as required for the
general consultants to perform their services;
(f) internal air travel in relation to the project;
(g) suitable vehicles for the work to be undertaken at the
scale of one vehicle per member of the consultants' team,
four wheel drive where necessary; members of the consult-
ants' team shall be entitled to use the vehicles for
reasonable personal transport;
(h) fuel, lubrication, repairs and servicing for the vehicles
supplied;
(i) assistance, where required, to the consultants' staff to
locate and obtain suitable living accommodation, for the
costs of which, consultants' staff will be responsible;
and
(j) in connection for work by the consultants which requires
the cooperation or assistance cf other Government Ministries
or Departments, Government will provide the necessary author-
ities, introduction or liaison.
15.       In order to monitor project progress, Government intends to pro-
vide full time one Project Director to work with the team leader and one
project engineer to work with each superintending resident engineer.



-34-                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Construction Industry Component
General
1.        The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), which was estab-
lished in 1961, is totally owned by GOP, the provincial governments, and GOP-
owned institutions. The total staff is 646, of whom 298 are officers. Over
the last few years, IDBP's organization has been streamlined considerably, and
appraisal and follow-up procedures improved. These are now adequate. IDBP's
procurement and disbursement procedures are also satisfactory.
2.        In FY78 (ending June 30), IDBP's gross approvals were Rs 217 million,
of which Rs 157 million were in foreign currency and Rs 60 million'in local
currency. These figures represented an increase over FY77, thanks to the
upswing in private sector investment interest, but are still relatively low
compared to some earlier years. However, IDBP's operations are now less
concentrated on textiles than in earlier years, so that its lending is now
diversified over a large number of industrial subsectors. IDBP's lending is
primarily for organized small and medium scale industries.
3.        IDBP's major problem is its low collections and high arrears.  This
dates back to the many economic and political changes that took place at the
time of independence of Bangladesh and the subsequent massive rupee devalua-
tion. In the following years, political uncertainties, nationalizations, the
1977 disturbances, the prolonged difficulties for the important textile sub-
sector, and the decline of the rupee (which is tied to the US$) in relation
to a number of strong currencies have caused the arrears to increase further.
In response to this situation, IDBP has increased its follow-up efforts con-
siderably, but this has not yet had the desired effect due largely to an inade-
quate legal system that has caused court cases to drag out for many years. It
seems likely that GOP will now take steps to improve the legal system in this
regard. Due to its low collections, GOP has provided liquidity support through
the State Bank of Pakistan, and this will be continued, if necessary. However,
despite the low collections, most of IDBP's loans are well secured so that
present provisions for bad and doubtful debts (Rs 77 million) are adequate.
IDBP's accounts are certified by its auditors without any qualifications.



-35                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.         The Bank Group has made one credit to IDBP (Credit 177-PAK for $20
million) 1/ for financing Pakistani industry. The credit became effective in
June 19707 However, the subsequent separation of Bangladesh severely affected
IDBP's operations, and IDA discontinued authorizing withdrawals.  In April
1974, utilization was resumed under new arrangements which involved the con-
version of the unallocated balance (US$10.8 million) into a managed fund admin-
istered by IDBP (without liability) on behalf of GOP. These arrangements were
devised because, while IDBP had recovered its operational capacity, it was
still not creditworthy since it remained liable for borrowings incurred to
finance assets in Bangladesh over which it had lost control. Since that time,
GOP has made assurances to the effect that this is no longer a problem for
IDBP. Credit 177-PAK was closed in February 1978, but the Bank remains in
close contact with IDBP.
The IDBP Component
5.        Purpose.  It is desirable that the local civil engineering contract-
ing industry should undertake portions of the work under the present project.
However, as discussed in Chapter 2, Section E, this industry is not fully
equipped to perform such work satisfactorily; both financial and technical
assistance is required in this regard. While there are a number of experienced
domestic contractors in Pakistan, they require some assistance to obtain and
use effectively the necessary equipment, which will be imported, and they
require guidance in the best methods to achieve the high quality standards
required under the project. The IDBP component is designed to provide this
assistance. Besides providing assistance to contractors under this project,
the component has the following objectives:
(a)  To make a start in assisting the domestic contracting indus-
try, which is important for local development and also has
export potential in the medium term; and
(b)  To prepare IDBP for a continued involvement in the financing
of the contracting industry, which has had great difficulties
in obtaining institutional finance. Although IDBP's involve-
ment under this project would only be with highway construc-
tion and maintenance, the experience would also be applicable
for other types of contracting.
6.        IDBP Policies.  Under its present Policy Statement, IDBP may finance
the construction industry only for the import of construction and engineering
equipment. IDBP will now amend its Policy Statement to permit it in the
future also to finance locally fabricated machinery for the construction
industry. Also, under its present Ordinance, IDBP's lending limits are low
(e.g. only Rs 4 million for limited liability companies 2/). However, the
1/   The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has made three loans to IDBP.
2/   Under a proposed revised Ordinance, the limit will be increased to
Rs 15 million.



- 36 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3
limits do not apply in a number of important sectors, and for other projects,
IDBP may exceed the limits with the prior approval of GOP.
7.        Component Size.  Contracts are planned within the project, both
for road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, which are of suitable size
for domestic contractors, and these contractors will be provided credit
through IDBP for appropriate mechanical highway equipment. Based on an esti-
mate of the likely number of domestic contractors who will win rehabilita-
tion and maintenance contracts and their equipment needs an allocation of
US$5.0 million has been made for this component.
8.        As discussed above, the amount of the component has been determined
in view of the likely demand for funds from contractors under this project.
However, it is possible that the demand will be less than now expected. If
after 18 months, this appears to be the case, IDA would permit IDBP to use
the remaining funds to finance other contractors for the import of equipment
for road construction and maintenance work following the same procedures and
policies as outlined for project works. 1/ With the closing date of June 30,
1984, IDBP would have sufficient time until June 30, 1983 to commit funds
under the component, leaving one further year for disbursement. This is
shorter than for normal DFC operations, but is considered sufficient for the
type of equipment financed under this component.
9.        Eligible Firms.  Firms with at least 51% local ownership would be
eligible under the component. Both public and private companies would be
eligible, but public firms should not be given any advantage through subsi-
dization in the bidding under the project.
10.       IDBP Lending Terms.  The funds under this component will be relent
by GOP to IDBP at 8%, with GOP carrying the exchange risk. The lending rate
to sub-borrowers would be the rate charged on all foreign exchange loans for
industrial purposes in Pakistan, i.e. 11%. GOP would carry the exchange risk
for a special fee of 2% which will be passed on to the sub-borrowers. This
will be in addition to the 11% re-lending rate. Lending to contractors is a
new activity for IDBP, and it involves greater risks than its normal lending.
Therefore, the interest spread of 3.0% which is greater than IDBP's present
spread of 2%-2.5% (which is low) is justified.
11.       IDBP would determine the maturity of the subloans on the basis of
the expected economic life of the equipment and the forecast repayment
ability of the sub-borrowers. This is likely to result in maturities of 6-7
years with about one year's grace from opening of L/C. The maximum repayment
period for the individual subloans would be 10 years including grace.  Repay-
ment to GOP would be made on a flexible amortization schedule up to a maximum
period of 15 years in approximate accordance with the aggregate maturities of
the sub-projects.
1/   IDBP would have the right to reject any applications under this compo-
nent, whether connected with the project or not.



- 37 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       Security.  For its normal term lending, IDBP requires security in
the form of a mortgage on fixed assets. However, local contractors may not
possess any fixed assets, and the equipment to be financed is movable. There-
fore, alternative methods of security would be required. As a rule, IDBP would
expect the following security under this project:
(a)  the equipment to be financed would be hypothecated to
IDBP;
(b)  in addition, IDBP should receive outside collaterals for
50% of the amount financed under the project;
(c)  the Government would deduct from payments to be made to
the contractors the amounts of loan due to IDBP and pay
such deductions directly to IDBP;
(d)  a lien in favor of IDBP should be established over any
official deposits by the contractors (such as retention
money) under the project; and
(e)  a no objection certificate from IDBP would be required to
take the financed machinery out of the country legally.
13.       Procurement.  The procurement under the project will follow IDBP's
normal procedures, which are satisfactory and conform to standard DFC pro-
cedures. The road construction adviser will advise IDBP in the procurement
decisions, including ways to take into account factors such as servicing,
availability of spares, and desired standardization of equipment.
14.       Under the project, spares may be financed with new equipment as
follows:
(a)  For new equipment - a reasonable amount of spares would be
included. If this should be very substantial, IDBP might
want to reserve the right to provide delivery in install-
ments for an agreed list, to avoid the possibility of resale
of the spares on the part of the contractors; and
(b)  For existing equipment - spares may be provided for machinery
to be used on site for this project.
15.       Free Limit.  Since this is a new activity for IDBP, a substantial
portion (i.e. about 60% by amount and 30% by number) of the subprojects will
be submitted to IDA for prior review. Accordingly, the free limit has been
set at US$150,000 with an aggregate free limit of US$3.5 million.
16.       Internal Arrangements.  IDBP has designated its Engineering Depart-
ment as responsible for this component, although appraisals will be done in



-38-                          ANNEX 2
Page 5
close cooperation with the Loan Department. Since this is a new activity for
IDBP, all subprojects under the credit component will for the time being
be appraised and supervised at the head office, regardless of size. 1/
17.       A construction industry advisor, financed by UNDP, has been provided
to IDBP for this component. His TOR are in Annex 3.
18.       Summary.  IDBP is a reasonably well organized and managed institu-
tion. Its major problem is its high arrears, but this will not affect its
financial viability or the execution of the proposed component. Its appraisal,
procurement, disbursement and follow-up procedures are satisfactory. During
negotiations, the following matters were agreed regarding IDBP:
(a)  the financing of local equipment for the contracting indus-
try in IDBP's Policy Statement (para 6);
(b) the financing of subprojects above IDBP's normal lending
limits (para 6);
(d) Lending terms (para 10);
(e) Security arrangements (para 12); and
(f) Free limit (para 15).
1/   Normally, smaller subprojects are handled by IDBP's regional offices.



-39 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Road Construction Advisor
(Excerpts taken from UNDP Project Document)
PART II   A.  Development Objective(s)
The main development objective of this project is
to improve the resources and capabilities of the road
construction industry so that it can effectively under-
take construction works and contribute towards the
development of the country.
B.   Immediate Objective(s)
-    The primary immediate objective of the project is to
provide an advisor to support the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) in their evaluation of
construction projects and the negotiations and loan
administration with domestic contractors who wish to
use the financing facilities provided, in order to
purchase highway construction equipment.
-    A second objective will be to assist and advise con-
tractors in the selection, operation and maintenance
of equipment, which will also protect the investment
made by IDBP.
-    A third objective is to obtain recommendations,
during the course of the advisor's work, on measures
to be taken by GOP, IDBP and/or IDA to further encour-
age the development of the construction industry.
-    A fourth objective is to improve the capability of
IDBP to engage in operations of a similar nature in
future by providing training for one member of staff
for six months.
C.   Special Considerations
Not applicable.



- 40 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 2
D.   Background and Justification
1.   Background
The Government of Pakistan has prepared a highway
rehabilitation and maintenance project, which has been
appraised by the International Development Agency (IDA).
The Government intends to seek credit under the IDA terms
to finance the project within a period of about three
years commencing in the second half of 1979. The IDA
rehabilitation and maintenance project is expected to
consist of:
(i) rehabilitation by contract of about 300-400 km of
national and primary highways;
(ii) improvement to highway maintenance operations;
(iii) assistance to the domestic construction industry;
The contracts under the IDA project will be for both
road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance and some will
be of suitable size for domestic contractors to undertake.
IDA proposes to provide financial support through the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan for such contrac-
tors to purchase appropriate mechanical equipment in order
to undertake the work in a manner which will improve the
quality of work done and reduce costs. As part of this
process the services of an experienced road construction
advisor are required in IDBP.
E.   Outputs of the Project
1.   The advisor will keep full records relating to his
work with IDBP, such records to be available for
inspection at all times. He will maintain a diary of
discussions held with contractors and of site visits,
this diary to be in a clear and legible form and
available for inspection at all times.
2.   The advisor will make a concise but comprehensive
bimonthly report on his activities to IDBP (2 copies)
and the Third Highway Project Cell (1 copy), outlining
his activities during the previous month, assessing
contractors' performance and utilization of equipment,
detailing difficulties that have arisen and actions
to overcome them and forecasting probable future
progress.



- 41 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 3
3.   Subject to any revisions suggested in the Work
Plan to be prepared by the advisor, his outputs
will consist of:
Months 1-6:    Activities F.l.(i) to (v) and
F.2(i) to (iii) below;
Months 7-12:   Activities F.1(vi), F.2(i) to
(iii), commence F.3(i) to (v) and
carry out F.3.(vi);
Months 13-18:  Continue activities F.2(i) to (iii)
and F.3(i) to (v);
Months 19-24:  Complete activities F.2(i) to (iii)
and F.3.(i) to (v) and complete
activity F.4 where possible.
F.   Activities
1.   Before IDBP loan approval, the advisor will:
(i)  advise IDBP on suitable terms and conditions
governing loans to domestic contractors for the
purchase of mechanical equipment;
(ii) advise IDBP on appropriate repayment schedules designed
to complete repayment within the normal economic life of
the equipment while allowing the borrower sufficient
liquidity to carry out correct operation, servicing
and repair;
(iii) if required, advise intending borrowers on the correct
selection of equipment for purchase, taking into account
equipment already held, the type and amount of work to
be undertaken, the availability of operators, servicing
facilities and spares within the borrower's organization
and elsewhere. In advising on equipment types and models
to be purchased, an attempt will be made to attain reason-
able standardization within the borrower's organization
and in the country as a whole;
(iv) review the intending borrower's facilities and plans
for operation and maintenance of plant and equipment
and advise IDBP of any improvements that will be
required before a loan could be agreed;
(v)  review with the general highway consultants the pre-
qualification data supplied by domestic contractors where
they intend to make use of IDBP credit facilities; and



-42 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 4
(vi)  assist and advise IDBP in loan negotiations with
domestic contractors.
2.   Once IDBP loans have been negotiated and equipment
ordered, the advisor will:
(i) keep IDBP informed of delivery schedules, inspect
equipment on arrival and assist, if required, with
claims or with the commissioning of equipment;
(ii)  discuss with contractors the correct operation and
use of items ordered, servicing and maintenance
schedule, advise on the stocks of spares to be held
on site and advise on the selection of operators and
works supervisors if required; and
(iii)  discuss and outline with contractors the planning
and management of works so that equipment can be
used most effectively.
3.   Once construction work has been initiated the
advisor will:
(i)  carry out together with IDBP personnel regular site
inspections to ensure that the conditions of the loan
agreement between IDBP and the contractor are being
observed, the equipment is being correctly used and
properly maintained and that its general condition is
sound;
(ii)  inform IDBP of any circumstances that may endanger
the repayment schedule;
(iii)  advise the contractor of any changes that should be
made in the operation or maintenance of the equipment
or in works planning in order to increase efficiency;
(iv)  assist and advise the contractor, if required, in
purchase of spares or the organization of repair
facilities;
(v) advise IDBP on any rescheduling of repayments which may
be desirable or necessary; and
(vi) recommend suitable training for a member of IDBP staff
and assist in the selection of candidates.
4.   On completion of the construction work, assess the
residual value of the equipment purchased under loans
from IDBP.



_ 43 _                      ANNEX 4
43 -~~~~~
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projects Reporting Requirements
1.        At the conclusion of each three month period, the Government will
prepare a progress report covering the work done on each of the components of
the project to date and detailing actual and anticipated progress, actual and
estimated costs for the work completed and disbursements from the credit com-
pared with those estimated in Table 16 of the appraisal report. The report
will highlight causes for delays, if any, with measures proposed to overcome
them, and it will anticipate any changes that appear to be necessary in the
project completion date, the credit closing date or the project costs. The
report will also include the results of traffic counts and pavement and soils
surveys taken to confirm designs and design estimates and economic evaluation,
and will detail any changes in design, cost estimates or economic evaluation
that result. Details will be given of plant, vehicles and equipment that has
been ordered or received during the reporting period either by Government or
by domestic contractors through IDBP. Data will be given on the locations,
utilization and performance of equipment received under the project. Two
copies of the quarterly report will be sent to IDA through the Bank's office
in Islamabad within six weeks of the end of each reporting period.
2.        Within six months of the completion of the project, Government
will submit to the Association, a Project Completion Report on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived
or expected to be derived from it, an assessment of the performance by Gov-
errment and by the Association of their respective obligations under the
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purpose of the credit.
Details of the contents and requirements of the Project Completion Report
were discussed and agreed during negotiations.



-  44 -                                 ANNEX v
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Development Issues
and Policies, Report No. 1924-Pak, April 7, 1978
National Engineering Services (Pakistan) Ltd., Third Highway Project
Lahore-Multan Road, Technical and Economic Feasibility Study, January
1978 (2 volumes) and Addendum October 1978; Design Report, October/
November 1978 (4 volumes); Contract Documents, February 1979 (8 volumes)
Progressive Consultants, Third Highway Project - Khairabad-Nowshera and
Peshawar-Charsadda, Economic and Engineering Feasibility Study,
January 1978 (2 volumes) and Supplementary Analysis, October 1978;
Design Report, November 1978 (3 volumes); Contract Documents, February
1979 (10 volumes)
Techno Consultant, Third Highway Project - Nawabshah-Khairpur section,
Technical and Economic Feasibility Study, January 1978 and Supplementary
Volume, October 1978; Design Report and Contract Documents, February 1979
Computer Printouts of Economic Evaluation - Base Case, Sensitivity Analysis
for (a) + 20% Cost - 20% Benefits and (b) 5 Year Road Life
Industrial Development and Finance Division, An Evaluation of the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (including tables) March 1979



TABLE 1
-45-
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
THE MAIN ROAD NETWORK
(Length in Kllometres)
Bitumen           Shingle           Earth
Year             Surfaced           Roads             Roads           Total
1973              19,710            13,742            2,796           36,248
1974              20,417            14,122            3,047           37,586
1975              21,571            14,015            3,423           39,009
1976              22,622            14,422            3,113           40,157
1977              23,716            14,321            3,378           41,415
1978
Punjab            11,056                 56             120           11,232
Sind               5,688                65           1,974             7,727
NWFP               3,236             2,999              831            7,066
FATA                 789             1,520              -              2,309
Baluchistan        2,722             8,442              -             11,164
Total          23,491            13,082           2,925            39,4981/
1/ The discrepancy with previous totals is under investigation
by G.O.P.
Source: Provincial Road Departments
February 1979



_ 46 -
TABLE 2
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
PFIi1 4PI rQCtmPIIfnn on RoSIdR
(Thousands of Tons)
Gasoline                         Diesel             Total
Regular      Premium      Total
1969        233         33          266             435               701
1970        249         45          294             540               834
1971       248          50          298             548               846
1972       258          55          313             598               911
1973       251          61          312             665               977
1974       236          60          296             755             1,051
1975        262         73          335             820             1,155
1976        270         71          341             873             1,214
1977       285          83          368             925             1,293
1978       301          92          393             990 (est.)      1,383
Average
Annual
Rate
Growth      2.2%        10.2%        3.7%           9.2%              7.4%
1969-79
1/ Estimated consumption by railroads and others has been excluded
Source: National Transport Research Center and Ministry
of Petroleum and Natural Resources
February 1979



- 47 -
TABLE 3
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Motor Vehicles Registered
(Thousands)
Year   Automobiles   Buses   Trucks   Subtotal   Motorcycles   Others   Total
1970    154.5          21.7    42.0       218.2        125.5         20.1    363$
1971    167.0          23.8    44.0       234.8        147.4         21.0    403.2
1972    170.6          26.6    45.9       243.1        159.7         23.3    426.1
1973    177.3          29.8    49.3       256.4        175.1         26.3    457.8
1974    189.1          33.4    53.4       275.9        199.7         33.0    508.6
1975    203.3          36.1    57.2       296.6        232.9         43.0    572.5
1976    220.8          38.7    60.5       320.0        274.0         56.8    650.8
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate     5.8%         10.5%    6.3%       6.4%         13.2%         19.1%      9.2%
1/ Not adjusted for scrapped vehicles
Source: Pakistan Statistical Yearbook 1977
February 1979



- 48 -                            TABLE 4
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Construction Expenditures
(Millions of Rupees)
Construction Expenditures
Baluchistan         NWFP         Punjab         Sind    Federal    Total
1973-74           46.6            51.2          227.8        126.5      228.5      680.6
1974-75           77.9            46.8         310.1         210.0      397.4    1042.2
1975-76           44.6            83.4         398.7         251.6      483.3    1261.6
1976-77           82.6           132.0          443.7        289.7      613.2    1561.2
1977-78           64.8           113.9          343.4        289.0      588.9    1400.0
1978-79 (est.)   38.8            123.2         409.0         190.0      899.4    1660.4
1979-80 (allo-
cated)  80.4           139.2          267.3         200.0       64.9     751.8
Maintenance Expenditures
1973-74           30.7            10.3           46.3         15.7                 103.0
1974-75           31.2             8.9           40.8         17.2                  98.1
1975-76           20.7             9.9           61.3         25.5                 117.4
1976-77           33.5            12.5           56.6         31.4                 134.0
1977-78           35.0            13.3           58.3         32.9                 139.5
1978-79 (est.)   20.0             17.5           65.6         33.4       19.2      145.7
1979-80 (allo-
cated)  36.9            34.7           54.3          34.3       44.7     204.9
Source: Provincial Road Departments and Annual Development Plans
November 1979



- 49 -
TABLE 5
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Road Sector
Collected by the Provinces
In Million Rupees
Year                         Total Revenue Receipts                          Remarks
Punjab       Sind        N.W.F.P.      Baluchistan      Total
1972-73     78         41            3                2           124
1973-74     88         50            3                3           144
1974-75     96         56            3                3           158
1975-76    106         68            4                4           182
1976-77    116         77           4                4            201
Source; Third Highway Project Cell
February 1979



TABLE 6
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Federal Road User Taxes
(Custom Duty, Sales Tax and Excise Duty)
(Millions of Rupees)
Item              1972-73      1973-74      1974-75      1975-76      1976-77
Motor Spirits             398.7        391.5        423.3        447.4        468.4
High Speed Diesel         270.1        337.6        237.6        341.7        314.1
Lubricating Oil and
Mineral Oils, etc.    64.7           62.3         63.5         70.6         33.6
Rubber Tyres -/            53.2         57.7         52.7         96.0        141.0
Motor and Other -/
Vehicles Parts        123.9        257.0        570.7        626.7        750.5
Total              910.6      1,106.1      1,347.8      1,582.4      1,707.6
======     =====      ===s=========    =========
l/ H.S.D. used by Railway and others is also included. About 83% is used by
road vehicles.
2/ This includes the tyres used by aeroplanes and tractors.
3/ Custom duty for 1976-77 is for July to April only.
Source: Central Board of Revenue
February 1979



-51 -                               TABLE 7
PAKISTAN
THBIRD HLGHWAY PROJECT
HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
Design Speed                                       80 Kph Minimum
Minimum Curve Radius                              254 m
Maximam Superelevation                              8%
Maximum Gradient                                    5%
Safe Stopping Distance                            107 m
Minimum Vertical Curve Length                      64 m
Width of Surfaced Roadway                         7.3 m or the existing width
whichever is greater
Width of Compacted Shoulders                      1.7 m
Crossfall                                         2% on Pavement
4% on Shoulders
Side Slopes                                       2 Horizontal: 1 Vertical
Source; Consultants Designs
March 1979



- 52 -                           TABLE 8
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Road Maintenance Units
(Estimated Costs (Rs millions)
Resealing Units to Federal Government and NWFP        Local     Foreign      Total
1  6,000 L Asphalt Distributor                                     0.64
1  6,000 L Asphalt Preheater                                       0.47
4  7t Tipper Trucks @ 230,000                                      0.92
1  S. P. Chips Preader and Compactor                               0.62
1  8t Rubber-tyred Roller (S.r.)                                   0.24
1  8t Steel-wheeled Roller (Local)                     0.22
1  S. P. Rotary Broom                                             0.23
1  Portable Granulator                                            0.24
1  Vibrating Screen                                               0.14
1  Water Truck,  6,000 L                                          0.28
2  Hand Sprayers                                                  0.02
1  Precoating Mixer                                                0.15
0.22       3.95
Spares 17% (say)                  0.04       0.65
Handling Internal Transport       0.24
Total for One Unit               D73R                    35
For Two Units                     1.0        9.2         10.2
Equipment to Baluchistan
2  25t Low-bed Trailers and Tractors                               1.0
2  125hp Maintenance Graders                                       1.4
1  Bulk Bitumen Transporter and Storage                0.2         0.9
0.2        3.3
Spares 17% (say)                             0.6
Handling, Internal Transport    0.2
0.4        3.9          4.3
TOTAL EQUIPMENT                   1.4       13.1         14.5
Source: Mission Estimates
February and June 1979



Table 9
tAXIaSTAN
ThIRD HIGHWAY PRWJECT
Cost Etit te- by Year
(Rupee MIllio.s)
Yea  Oee                                      Year TeeYa.TreYerFu                                                                                                                        TOTEALS
L-ca       Foe..ipe      To       Toa          oal       PeIe         TooT      Totl..    Local       Fore~-ige    Too. L-   Total       Locol       Fooo         To       Ttal-        Luco I      orsion       Too      Total
i/
I.tod   ehabilito.tdo.
a)  Fsbo,or-Clsaroado                                                 ---                               7.6         4.          2.1      14.2       5.1           3.1        1.3       9.4         --                                            1 2.97       7.63.                23.6
Rh,t=bad-Noebro7.                                                   4.6        2.0       14.3        52           3.1~       1.3       9.6       --           ---          --         -          --                               ---          12.9         7.         33       23.9
Lob re-Sobawel                           32.7        3l~~~6      13.6      97~~9      63.6750.2               21.7    1-55.7       6.3           6.6        1.6    119.5          19.           11.8       4.9      36.1        220.2       132.2       36.8    409.2
6a~ooRbI                                       13.20         7.6      _..i..     2 4.1       19. 2       1 1.         4. 7    33.9      19.2          11.5         4.9      35.4         7,8           4.3       2.1      14.4         39.0        34.9        13.0    107.8
2/                                73.4         44.9       18.9    136.3        114.8        66.9        29.7    213.4       68.4          23.1        23.6     164.3       27.2          16.3        7.0      50.5        303.6      192.3        78.4    564.5
b1  S.P_ii-3_                                                            1....1               4.4         9.3         2.6        --        11.9       7.5           1.4        --          .9        3.1           0.6       -          5.9        23.1         5.9          _-      31.0
To tal T                                            76.7         43.1       19.9    140.7        124.0        71.5        29.7    225.2       95.9          54.3        22.9     173.2       32.3          17.1        7.0      56.4       339.9       199.2        76.4    595.5
".otito_oocle:    .. eity lOT. o(a  ud (b)                      7.7          4.3        1.9      14.1        12.4          7.2        3.0      22.6       9.6           3.4         2.3      17.3        3.2           1.7        0.7       5.6         32.9       16.6         7.9      59.6
Price                            ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~       ~~~6.6  4.0  jj7  12.1  30.6  17.5    7.3     33.4       34.7         19.7         6.3      62.7        16.2           0.3       3.3      78.2         87.7        30.7        22.9     156.8
Toes1 Cootlg-eir                                    14.5          6.3        3.6      26.6        43.0        24.7        10,3      76.0      44.3          25.1        10.6      60.0       19.4          10.2       4.2       33.6        120.6       69.0        26.0     216.4
Totu1 I 00th Cuotingeoces                                      91.2         53.6       22.5    167.3        167.0        96.2        40.0    303.2    140.2            79.6        33.4    253.2         31.7         27.3       11.2      90.2       449.3       2 57 .2     107.2    613.9
10.  Rood Maiet--ec
a)  Eqatp-tho  -/4                                          0.5          4.6        --        31          0.9         9.5         --        9.4      --           ---          --        --         --           --          --        --            1.4       13.1         --       14.5
d)  Foderul Highaays Techoicol Asoista-co             4/    0.3          0.3                              ---05       0o          -         0.4                                                                                                      0.2        0.7         --0.6
o)  -ro-ica  G--r-sete TotbolcoI Assl?rco.                --    --          -     -         --          .3          2.6                  3.1        0.1          2.9         --        3.0        0-.                       .       -              .A         5. 7       .-6.6
f)  Aole Load Soroey Teohalcat Aeslertec-                   0.3          0.0        --        0.3         0.2         0.1    ~ -            0.3      ---                                                                               -0.3                     0.1         0-.6.j 
Total II                                             1.0          4.9        --        5.8         1.4        11.6         -        13.2       0.1           2.9         --        3.0       -                         -        -             2.5       19.6         --       22.1
Co-tiogeoc.ies  W-otlty 5% on (c), 107. oothor                   0.1         0.2        --         0.3        0.1          0.7        --        0.6        0.0          0.3         --        0.3        -            --                   -             0.2         1.2        --1.4
Pric                                          0.1          0.3        --         0.4        0.4          1.6        --        2.0        0.0          0.5         --        0.5                                                        2 --S---0.  2.4        .-2.9
Total Ce    -aoir`                                  0.2          0.5        --        0.7         0.5         2,3         --        2.6       0.0           0.6        -          0.8       -                         .        -             0.7        3.6         --4.3
TotL1 IT with Coetlagoocios:                                     1.2         5.4        --         6.6        1.9         14.1        --       16.0        0.1          3.7         --        3.6       ---                       -         -             .         23.2        --26.4
III.  Coest-otioo Teduatoy
g)  lOBP                                                   --           20.0        --       20.0        --          29.5         --       29.1      --           ----                               -            - --                  -             -        49.5         --       49.5
h)  UNOP Techoicol Asaisto.c.                               8.1          0.4        --        0.3         21           9.6        --        0.7       0.0           0.2         a--       0.2       --                         -       -             9.2         1.3        -          1.4
Total IIT                                            .          20.4        --       26.5         0.1        30.1        --        30.2       0.0           0.2        --         0.2        ----                              -.0.2                   30.7         5- 0.9
IV.  Project Pre--rtloo
1)  Pact 1/23.1                                                         3.1                  26.2       --           --           .-        --         --          ---         --          -          --        ---                                 23.1        3.1         --26.2
F) Ftur                                                                                     --                      0.4        --         2.0        1.6          0.4                  2.j         -           -            -       -             3.2         0.6         -         4.0
Tote1 IV                                            23.1          3.1                 26.2         1.6         0.4         --        2.0         1.6         0.4         --        2.0       ---          -.-                    -26.3                    3.9        --        30.2
Cootiog ..cie-   Q-aslty 102 so                                 --          ----                              0.1          0.0        --        0.1         0.1         0.0         .-         .l          --                      -       -             0.3         0.0        --2
PrIce-                                                                                     0.3.~       01                    0.4        0.4          1.          -         0.5        0-...._u 02                                                            -          .
TotalI CoetiegecLes                                 --                     ---                     0.4         0.1         -         0.3        0.9          0.1        -          0.6        -            --                   -             0.9        0.2         -          1.3
Total IV wIth Cootlog-eies                                     20j,          3.                    6.2        2.9          0.5        -         2.5         2.1         0.5         --        26          -                       -        -            77.0         4,1-       3-1.3
Gr-nd Total I - IV                                            109                       13 tT               nr          in             rr                                                                                                                                               69 -r  ru  .7io- irr  r Wi  5.  6247Z TE
Q-atlty Coellogeetles                         7.6          6.7         1.9    14.4         12.6         7.6         3.0      23.9        9.7          5.7         2.3      17.7       3.2          1.7          0.7      3.6          33.3       20.1         7.9      61.2
Price-   eleece                               6.9          4.3         1.7    12.9         31.3        19.2         7.3      5 7.8      33.1         2.          8.3       63. 7     06.2          6.3         3.3      76.2          6.         526         20,9    162 6
TotalCelI        sce                         14.7          6.0         3.6    27.3         43.9        37.1        10.13      1.        46.8         26.0        10.6      61.4      19.4         10.2          4.2     33.6         122.2       72.6        28.8     .2V
0jeed Total with Ceotlage...lca                               115.6         62.5        22.5   220.6        171.0       140.9        40.0    351.9       142.4         64.0        33.4    259.6       51.7         27.3         11.2    90.2          460.1      335.2       107.2    922.1
Oats: Peace  eflteti- Factos                                       1   Base d oe  -tr-ctoes  bide
oaEsoie-t       Other       Loe.sI         2 Fro  cable 13
Tear 1                    .06            .07        -ir           37  Pro  tbl   6
2          .12           ~~~     ~ ~~~        ~    ~~~.14  .29  41Fo    de1
3                    19            .22         .42           5/  Ire   tbl  11
4.26                     .3 1         .16     ~     ,Fro  Itle1  15
etebr1979



-54 -
PAKISTAN                                TABLE 10
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Coat of Construction and Maintenance Equipment Financed
via IDBP
a)    For Road Rehabilitation:
Plant requirements will be mainly for surfacing work, shoulder
improvements and production of crushed stone base.
Typical plant fleet would be:                        (US$ 1,000)
1  55t/hr Asphalt Plant *                                         330.0
1  Asphalt Paver    *                                              60.5
1  Aspbalt Preheater, 6,000 L *                                    46.7
1 Asphalt Distributor, 6,000 L *                                   63.8
1 Water Truck,  6,000 L                                            28.6
1  Vibrating Roller, 8-lOt                                         44.0
2  Tandem Rollers, 8-lOt (local)*                                  44.0
;  Motor Grader, Model 12 *                                        93.5
1  3 c.y. Loader *                                                 82.5
1  8t Rubber-tyred Roller   *                                      24.2
1  S. F. Roller, lOt                                               12.1
7  7t Dump Trucks @ 23,200                                        162.4
2  Concrete Mixers @ 11,200                                        22.4
2  Portable Granulators @ 24,200*                                  48.4
1,063
For overlay contract,items marked *
would be required at cost of:                               794
Allow for Spares 17%                                       316
2,173
(Say)                                    2,200
b)   For Road Maintenance by Contract:  total estimated requirement which may
be taken up by a number of contractors
8 Maintenance Graders @ 82,500                                   660.0
2 6,000 L Asphalt Preheaters                                      93.4
2 6,000 L Asphalt Distributors                                   127.6
2 S. P. Chipspreader and Compactors                              123.0
2 8t Rubber-tyred Rollers(S.P.)                                   48.4
2 Portable Granulators                                            48.4
8 7t Tipper Trucks @ 23,200                                      185.6
4 8-lOt Tandem Rollers (local)                                    88.0
2 Hydraulic Shovel-Backhoes                                       37.4
4 Water Trucks, 6,000 L @ 28,600                                 114.4
IJ526.0
Spares 17T                                                 260.0
1,786.0
(Say)                                  1,800
Summary
Road Rehabilitation                                         2,200
Contract Maintenance                                        1,800
Unallocated (Contingency)                                   1,000
TOTAL                                   5,000
Source: Mission's Estimates



_55 _                                 TABLE 11
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION COSTS
(Rupees Million)
A.     Expatriate Advisory Services
Local     Foreign      Total
Personnel (56 man-months)                                 2.65        2.65
International Travel                                        .31        .31
Other Reimbursable Costs                       .58          .15        .73
Contingencies                                  .02          .06        .08
Subtotal                                   .60         3.17        3.77
B.     Domestic Consultants
Feasibility Studies
476 km @ Rs 6,825                         3.25                     3.25
346 km @    7,000                         2.42                     2.42
812 km @    7,175                         5.83                     5.83
Final Engineering
267 'km @  13,000                         3.47                     3.47
562.6  km @  13,325                         7.50                     7.50
Subtotal                                 22.47                    22.47
Total Project Preparation                23.07         3.17       26.24
1/ Most expenditures are actuals
Source: Third Highway Project Cell
February 1979



-56  -                               TABLE 12
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost of Coordinating Consultants
(Rupees Million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Team Leader (47 months @ 65,000)-/                         3.06       3l/O6
Supervising Engineer (36 months @ 55,000)                  1.98       1.98
Soils and Paving Engineer
(18 months @ 62,000)                1.12        1.12
International Travel                                        .50         .50
Other Reimbursable Cost                       1.40          .70       2.10
Total                                  1.40         7.36        8.76
1/ Assumes 5 contracts to be supervised
Source: Mission's Estimates
February 1979



57                              TABLE 13
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION COSTS
(Rupees Million)
1/
A.     Domestic Consultants
Local     Foreign      Total
4 Resident Engineers (4x42 manmonths
0 4,000/mth.)                         0.67                   0,67
210 Assistant Resident Engineers
(10 x 42 mm @ 2,500/mth.)             1.05                   1.05
10 Material Engineers (10x42 mm
@ 2,500/mth.)                        1.05                   1.05
100 Technical Supervisors (100x42 mm
@1,500/mth.)                         6.30                   6.30
20Q Laborers, Lab. Staff, etc.
(200x42 mm @ 350/mth.)                2,94                   2.94
30 Drivers (3Qx42 mm @ 450/mth)              0.57                   0.57
80 Office and Clerical Staff
( 80x42 mm @ 730/mth.)                2,42                   2.42
Total Personnel               15.00                  15.00
Materials, Office Supplies and Rent
(4x48 mths. @ 5,000/uth.)             0.96                   0.96
15.96                  15.96
Overheads (50%), say                          8.04                   8.Q
24.00                  24.00
2/
B.      Coordinating Consultants
(80% of time)                             1.10        5.90        7.00
Total             Rs         25.10       5.90        31.00
_/ Assumes 4 contracts will be supervised
2/ From Table 12
Source: Mission's Estimates
September 1979



TABLE 14
_ 58 -
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD CONSTRUCTION ADVISOR COSTS
A. PROJECT BUDGET COVERING UNDP CONTRIBUTION
(millions of Rupees)
Local         Foreign         Total
PERSONNEL
Road Construction
Advisor (Z4 mm)                 .19            1.00            1.19
In-country Travel                 .12              - _            .12
Component Total                 .31            1.00            1.31
FELLOWSHIPS
Overseas Training for
IDBP Staff                       -              .09             .09
MISCELLANEOUS
Miscellaneous                      .02            .01             .03
GRAND TOTAL                       .33            1.10            1.43



59 -
TABLE 15
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
COST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO FEDERAL
AND PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY DEPARTMENTS
AND FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION
(Millions of avupees'
Local     Foreign    Total
A.  Federal Highways Assistance                                 .14          .74       .88
10% of Coordinating Consultants Time
(Table 12)
B.  Provincial Highway Departments
(NWFP & Baluchistan)
tour Experts 80 months each   @ Rs 60,000                              4.80      4.80
Local Travel 4 x 80 x Rs 4,500                             ,36                    .36
Air Fares and Freight   x Rs 20,000 + 15%                              ..28       .,28
Subtotal T. A.                  .36         5.08      5.44
Equipment for Soils Lab                                    .04          . 60       .64
Total B
.40         5.68      6.08
C.  Technical Assistance with Axle-weight Survey
Professional Staff                                        0.26         0.06       0.32
Support Staff                                             0.04          -        0.04
Travel Costs                                              0.02         0.04       0.06
Office Supplies & Rent                                    0.02          -         0.02
0.34
Overheads, 50% of Local Costs, say                        0.16                   0.16
0.50         0.10      0.60
D.  Future Project Preparation
Coordinating Consultant (10% of Total from Table 12)    .14             .74        .88
Domestic Consultants (2 00km for Review and               1.60                    1.60
Update of Original Design @ Rs 8,000 per km)              1.50                    1.60
New Studies ( 50 km Q Rs 30,000)                          '__            -
JaL2 4        07 4      3.98
Source: Third Highway Project Cell and Mission's Calculations
February 1979



-60  -                             TABLE 16
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US Dollars Millions)
Ministry of      Cua- i-ive
IDBP     Communications    Diabusements
IDA Fiscal Year And
Quarter Ending
1980
June 30, 1980                                .50            2.00           2.5
1981
September 30, 1980                           .50            3.00           6.00
December 31, 1980                           1.00            3.00          10.00
1arch 31, 1981                              1.00            4.00          15.00
June 30, 1981                                .50            4.00          19.50
1982
September 30, 1981                           .50            5.00          25.00
December 31, 1981                            .50            4.00          29.50
March 31, 1982                               .50            4.00          34.00
June 30, 1982                                               4.00          38.00
1983
September 30, 1982                                          3.00          41.00
December 3', 1982                                           2.00          43.00
March 31, 19d3                                              2.00          45.00
June 30, 1983                                               2.00          47.00
1984
September 30, 1983                                          1.50          48.50
December 31, 1983                                            .50          49.00
March 31, 1984                                               .50          49.50
June 30, 1984                                                .50          50.00
TOTAL                            5.00           45.00         _____
Credit Effective Date Oct. 1, 1979
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Source: Mission's Estimates
February 1979



61                                                 Table 17
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Data on Road Sections for Rehabilitation & Improvement
tRAFFIC DATA SETI TR-3 I PESMANAR CHARSAD
..................... ..................
BASE YEAR: 1962
INITIAL ADOT  4448
APPLICABLE ON LINKS3 LN-3,
P CAR      MINI BUS  PASS BUS  TRUCK
E[ISTING TRAFFIC (ADT;                        t4499        337       14I41        971
IQUIVALENT STANDARD AXLES PER LANE          O,0         1.3       344,c     1262,3
ANNUAL TRAFFIC GROWTH
1982-1987 (PERCENTAGE)                      4,c         8,9         o,8        e,2
1988.1992 (PERCENTAGE)                      4,9         8.b         4.1        7.3
_......... "0 ............          ...__ ..__..........,,,...,... ,................
TRAFFIC DATA SEII TR-8 I NOOSHERA.KHAIRBD
,,,____,,___,___............................
BASE YEARS 1982
INITIAL ADTS 3484
APPLICABLE ON LINKSs LN-8,
P CAR      MINI BUS  PASS BUS  TRUCK
E[ISTING TRAFFIC (ADT)                        1164        280         9244       111
EQUIVALENY STANDARD AXLES PER LANE          0.0         1.1      194,0      1450,8
ANNUAL TRAFFIC GROWTH
1982.1987 (PERCENTAGE)                      4,7         8,3        e,3         5,6
1988,1992 (PERCENTAGE)                      5,3         8,4         8.3        6,7
.........................................................................
TRAFFIC DATA SETI TR-s I LAHOREe SAHIWAL
_._.___-____-_------__-_______......_-..._...
BASE YEARI 1982
INITIAL AOTI 3965
APPLICABLE ON LINKS: LN-5p
P CAR      MINI BUS  PASS BUS  TRUCK
._____..v..........._.__._______., ....,.,,,,,.__,___...__..............
E[ISTING TRAFFIC (ADT)                         607         67        1126        2165
EQUIVALENT STANDARD AXLFS PFR LANE          0,0         0,3      238.5      2814,5
ANNUAL TRAFFIC GROWTh
1982.1992 (PERCENTAGL)                      5,7         5,7        6,5         7,b
paW.       .PCPW-PPS.Wa.P.... --e--.v~v-w ........w.......              ........W
TRA0FIC DATA SETI TR.2 I Kandiaro-Robri
...... ..........._.___................____.__._..
BASE YEARI 1982
INITIAL ADIS 4011
APPLICABLE ON LINKSS LN-2,
P CAR      MINI BUS  PASS BUS  TRUCK
. ........................................._. ___.-
EXISTING TRAFFIC (ADTl                         259        34c         473       2933
EQUIVALENT STANDAHO AXLES PER LANE          0,0         1,4       99,3      3812,9
ANNUAL TRAFFIC GRO*TH
1982-1967 (PERCENTAGE)                      7.5        10,0        7.1         4,5
1988-1992 (PERCENTAGE)                      7.0        100        8,0         2,8
..                           .         , .............- ......................
Source: Consultants' Report
September 1979



PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Suwmary of Economic Evaluations for Road Rehabilitation & Improvement
2/                                                           Economic Rate of Return
Economic
Construction                                  Net Present                  Sensitivity Analysis
Costs                                        worth          Base        -207 Benefits  5 Years
1/              Rs/Km              AADT            %           at 12%       Case        +20% Costs       Pavement Life
Kms             (millions)             1982         Heavy      (millions)        %               z               %
Road Rehabilitation
Peshawar-Charsadda              27.6                 0.78               4448          59%           80           &8              46              60               1
Khairabad-Nowshera              29.0                 0.76               3484          59%          67            85              53              75               >
Lahore-Sahiwal                 100.0                 3.74               3965          83%          590           41              29              35
Kandiaro-Rohri                  48.0                 2.06               4011          80%         298            82              54              70
Total or Weighted Average           204.6                                                             1035           51               35             45
I/ Length of highway assumed to be constructed in economic analysis
2/ Financial costs
Less Taxes plus supervision
Source: Consultants and Mission's Estimates
December 1979
co.



- 63 -
TABLE 19
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF RESEALING
(Rupees Per Kilometer)
Costs                   Benefits
Cars       Buses      Trucks
USER COST SAVINGS
Unimproved (4000 'r')
Tires                                      .0255      .0904        .1646
Maintenance Parts                          .1506      .7229        .5099
Maintenance Labor                          .0085      .0502        .0404
Total Unimproved                      .1846      .8635       .7149
Improved (2500 'r')
Tires                                      .0106      .0785        .1428
Maintenance Parts                          .0727      .5239        .3701
Maintenance Labor                          .0050      .0380        .0031
Total Improved                        .0883      .6404       .5160
User Cost Saving Per km                       .0963      .2231        .1989
z"ADT                                         80         80         240
First Year Benefits                        2-,812     6,514      17,423
Year 1                 21,000
Year 2                                         26,749
Year 3                                         28 ,6k21
Year 4                                         30, 625
ER Base Case                                          120%
ER + 20% Costs and
- 20% Benefits                                     71%
1/ 't' is a measure of the total vertical movement of a standard wheel relative
to its frame when towed at 30 Kph over a section of road. The valuesgiven
here are typical for the conditions described. Cale-ludc4r bawim  on con-
sumption figures from UK Transport and Road le ssah-Lahoratory (TKXL)
publication LR723
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1979






PAKISTAN                                                                                                         --Chart No.  1
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Ministry of Communications
(Central Roads Organization)
Minister
Secretary for Communications
I  National Highways    l                                                                                                  Director Generals for: Telecommunications, |
Board                                                                                                          |Post Office, Ports, Shipping, Karachi Shipyard|
Directorate Goneral                                [     Additional Secretary (Communications)
| of National Highways                                F
Jont SecretarY                      JoitSceayyTasot                                                                                  Joint Secretary
|(IComplaints)                                             Jint Secretary (Transport                                              (Communications)
Rasad RoadTrasor t)                   Inan lWAdvisr       l              System Coll       |             ArdvisPoryt  
{RasadRa   rnpnF                               Transport         l|                                              Councill
Deputy Consulting Engineer for:                                                                                Transport
Economist
Rod   ridges  |Transport|l
_ridgesTren~ot |SECRETARIAT
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Statistical
Assistant Chief Engineers for                                                                                 0 Officer
Roads      Bridges     Statistics
Section Officers For
Inland            RodsRapid                            Transport        N   itona       |  Third Highwa          Accounts
Water Transport |      Roa         |      Transit R     Advisory Council       Highways             Project i         Officer
1/aTheDirector of Roads and Road Transport  Transit hB C ll    not yet been e  dBoard               Prrld Office7
IiThe Director of Roads and Road Transport and his Cell have not yet been established.                                                                World Bank - 20777



Char-t No. 2
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highways Board and Directorate General of National Highways as Constitutedl/
On October 6, 1979
National Highways Board
Secretary, Ministry of Communications (Chairman)
Provincial Secretaries of Communications and Works (4)
Director General of National Highways
I
Directorate General of National Highways
| *Director General oG National Highway       S
'Il_aa      uor           Suku                                                                                                                              12
Chid Highsay PDrojca Cell                                                                                          tDeputy Secretary N. 5e(r2  Io NNH.. 0(
iCoNordination)  N 1epoeb    1979.
DC puty Project Co ordinators                                                                                                        Officers: Grade 20--   1
Grade 19 - 6
F   *   *                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grade 18 -  20
|   L   |    .                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grade 1 7-   2
General Staff          93
'soabd]     *aoe          Sukkur                                                                                                                             122
'Director                                                                                                 *      Chief Inspector       Chief Inspector    |
*Director (Planning)          Mai te nance)           Di Orector I(Statistics)                                                                Hihwy                       Highways ||IN 2;N   0 N 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -    N,    35                                                                      N . 25   N|  50   . 
XDeputy Director          *Deputy Director           'Deputy Director  'l Deputy Direco                     'eutgyietr'euyChe                                        Dpt   he
(Plning)                 (Maintenaice)                (Statistic,)                 ( Audt               (d nn. & Bugt(N r;; N. 35)                              (nspco  Highways N.65
*Deputy Director 
(M.P 0) 
|'Assistant Director         *Ass|n D'rc.                Inspecto  N.    ; (2        Inspector N. 25 {21
(Admin.)                       (Sudget I          L  Inspector N. 35 (12) ||Inspector N. 65 (1 )|
'Position filled in November 1979,
1/ Conistituted by Resolution No. 4 (5)/9 -NHB of October 6, 1979,                                                                                                                                     o dSn         04



Chart No. 3
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of Sind Provincial Highway Department
Chief Engineer
Director of Highways
Headquarters Staff
Technical Officer           Divisional Forest Officer
Planning Designs Officer    Land Acquisition Officer
2 Asst. Design Officers     Budget & Accts. Officer
I~~~~~~ Administrative Off'icer
|4 Highw,ay Circlesl
I (Superintending Engineers i/c) 
15 Highway Divisions                                                        2 Machinery Maintenance
(Executive Engineers i/c)                                              .     Divisions (Mech. Engineer i/c)
48 Highway Sub-Divisions                                                         5 MacS ins Maint.
(Asst. Engineers i/c)                                                        Sub-Divisions (Asst.
Mechanical Engineers i/c)
World Bank -20130



Chart No. 4
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1979                     1980                     1981                      1982                      1983
I                      '-   1      1I                 I     III  I       I     I      I
I. ROAD REHABILITATION
a)  Bidding Period
Receive and Evaluate Bids
NW FP
j) Peshawar-Charsadda
ii)  Khairabad-Nowshara
Pun jab
iii)  Lahore-Sahewal
Si nd
iv)  Kandiaro-Rohri
b)  Supervision
i)  Coordinating Consultancv                                                                                                                              _  _
Services                                                                                                                                          _ a_
ii)  Domestic Consultancy
Services
II. ROAD MAINTENANCE
a)  Order and Receive Road
Maintenance Equipment
b)  Federal Highways
Technical Assistance                                         _  _  _        _   _  _  _
c)  Provincial Highways
Technical Assistance
d)  Road Maintenance
Training
e)  Contract Maintenance                                                   _  _
III. CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
a) Order and Receive Road
Maintenance and Construction
Equipment via IDBP
b)  Technical Assistance to IDBP
IV. PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                     _  _  _  _
World Bank - 20742



Chart No. 5
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Coordinating Consultants - Supervision Schedule
1977                    1980                   1981                     1982                     1983E                   A
PROPOSED STAFFING                                                                  = = = = = =                                                       EXPATRIATE
___________________  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~        MAN-MONTH
TEAM LEADER                                                                      *                                                              m47
SUPERVISING RESIDENT
ENGINEER 1                                                                L.ULL                                                                            18
COUNTER PART                                              _                             _            _          Local (Govt. Staff)
SUP. RES. ENG. II        (IIEL                                                                                                                              1 18
Local (Govt. Staff) 
COUNTER PART                                              _                 _    -                         _                             _
SO ILS ENG.                                                                  mmsg
PAVING ENG.                                                                                                                                                  9 9
101
World Bank - 20131
REVIEW NEED
TO EXTEND
SUP RES. ENG






IBRD 14188R
64                             68-                            72-     U.S S. R          AUGUST 1979
(    * -I            (A C H I NA
PAKISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                 *"-'*  j                           36-
-36'
PROJECT ROADS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS                            9      f
RAILWAYS
+    AIRPORTS                                               haodo            App--.Im. o C-f-1
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                     shem
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                        LAMABAD
RIVERSV  
t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Knjr                                              0  100  200' 300: 400 gy 
32'                                                                      rg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'C
)         , *  ; -  .\    ~~~~~I NDIA
28- '                                                                                                                 28'-
I R AN       j          T   >        t               vS
.JX          l      :   / 7rK~~~~~~~~~~~oniro Dhi        0      100    200    300    4010
<_  ~ ~~~    0   )        t s  1l t ~~~~~~~~N  D                           KILOMFTERS
( Jt   .,      /      i            a\aN~~~~~~~~~owobshoh   72. -E
= \  _AEH)yderobruc \ ...................... Jo ~obad                               DEM. REP OF|
Aracbian   5ea                                                                                   INDIA
*    I T A                       t                      X    fS_



