-.      CREDIT NUMBER 974 PAK
IDBP Project Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Dated April 9, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 974 PAK
IDBP PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1980, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called IDBP),
established by the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Ordinance, 1961, of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that IDBP agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IDBP, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to IDBP on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS IDBP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) IDBP shall carry out Part C of the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs with due diligence and


﻿-2-
efficiency and in accordance with sound financial and invest-
ment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and staff, and in accordance with the Ordinance.
(b) IDBP shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with
the Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, under which such portions of the proceeds of the Credit as
shall be disbursed to the Borrower on account of expenditures by
IDBP required for Part C of the Project shall be on-lent by the
Borrower to IDBP.
(c) IDBP shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, IDBP shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. In providing the technical assistance to
contractors included in Part C of the Project, IDBP shall be
assisted by a qualified and experienced consultant appointed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Develoment Credit Agreement, IDBP shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for
authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting an Investment Project to the Association
for approval other than a free-limit sub-loan, IDBP shall furnish
to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with a description of such Investment
Project (including a description of the costs thereof proposed to
be met out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and
conditions of the sub-loan to the Investment Enterprise, including
the schedule of amortization proposed therefor, a financial
analysis and a technical and economic evaluation thereof and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by IDBP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and of the costs of the Investment Project (including a
brief description of the costs thereof proposed to be met out of


﻿-3-
the proceeds of the Credit), for which such authorization is
requested and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan for such
Investment Project, including the schedule of amortization there-
for.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBP
shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree: (a) sub-loans shall be made in accordance with provisions
included in Part B of the Schedule to this Agreement; and
(b) procurement of imported goods and equipment under Part
C of the Project shall be in accordance with IDBP's normal
procedures.
Section 2.05. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions
referred to in the preceding Section, IDBP undertakes that,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan
will be made on terms whereby IDBP shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprises or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Association and IDBP, including the right of IDBP to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) require that the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor and the need for standardization, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with represen-
tatives of the Association if the Association shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall


﻿-4-
be consistent with sound business practice; and (B) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Associa-
tion or IDBP shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with IDBP.
(b) IDBP shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Pro4ect in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and IDBP; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part C of
the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) IDBP shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, Part C of the Project, the Invest-
ment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans, and
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account in respect of the sub-loans or by such later
date as the Association shall request, IDBP shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operations of the Investment Projects, their
costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the
performance by IDBP and the Association of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of Part C of the Credit.
Section 2.07. IDBP shall duly perform all its obligations
under agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put
at the disposal of IDBP by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. IDBP shall promptly


﻿inform the Association of any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.08. If IDBP establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
IDBP shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of IDBP hereunder to the extent to which such obli-
gations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obli-
gations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. IDBP shall, before December 31, 1979 take
measures satisfactory to the Association to enable IDBP to finance
locally manufactured equipment for the construction industry.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IDBP shall maintain procedures and records
for each Investment Project adequate to record the progress of
Part C of the Project and the cost and benefits to be derived from
such Part of the Project and the larger Investment Projects and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
IDBP.
Section 3.02. IDBP shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of IDBP and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association and IDBP shall
otherwise agree, IDBP shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to
incur any debt if, after the incurring of any such debt, the
consolidated debt of IDBP and all its subsidiaries then incurred


﻿-6-
and outstanding would exceed five times the consolidated capital
and surplus of IDBP and all its subsidiaries.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of IDBP
or a subsidiary, including deposits but excluding
(A) accounts payable and other similar liabilities
and (B) indebtedness guaranteed by IDBP or a
subsidiary maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Reference to the incurring of debt includes the
assumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal,
extension, or modification of the terms of the debt
or of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under
a loan contract or agreement, on the date and to
the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement, (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee shall have been entered into and (C)
in the case of deposits, on the date the deposit
is made;
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Rupees debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(iv) the term "consolidated debt of IDBP and all its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
IDBP and all its subsidiaries, excluding (A) debt
owed by IDBP to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary
to IDBP or to any other subsidiary, and (B) debt
referred to in subparagraph (v) (C) of this para-
graph; and
(v) the term "consolidated capital and surplus of IDBP
and all its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of
(A) the total unimpaired capital, surplus and free
reserves of IDBP and all its subsidiaries after


﻿-7-
excluding such items of capital, surplus and
reserves as shall represent equity interests of
IDBP or of any subsidiary in IDBP or in any subsi-
diary, (B) the Special Development Assistance Fund
of IDBP (established pursuant to the letter of the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower dated July 3,
1964) and (C) with respect to any loans or advances
made to IDBP by the Borrower which are by their
terms expressly subordinated to the other indebted-
ness and the share capital of IDBP, the amount of
such loans or advances which is payable after the
date of the last outstanding maturity of the
principal amount of the loan provided for in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. IDBP shall at all times protect itself against
losses resulting from changes in the rate of exchange between
Rupees and the currency or currencies in which IDBP's outstanding
money obligations shall have to be met.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, IDBP:
(a) shall not have or acquire any subsidiaries;
(b) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
its property and assets, except in the ordinary course of busi-
ness; and
(c) shall take all action necessary to maintain its cor-
porate existence and right to carry on operations and to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.06. IDBP shall cause each of its subsidiaries
(if any) to observe and perform the obligations of IDBP under
this Agreement to the extent to which the same may be applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of
such subsidiaries.
Section 3.07. The Association and IDBP shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of IDBP and its subsidiaries, and
IDBP shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿-8-
Association shall reasonably request concerning the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of IDBP and its
subsidiaries.
Section 3.08. IDBP shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Carecellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of IDBP thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
IDBP of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-9-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For IDBP:
Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan
P.O. Box 5082
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEBA                             23722 IDBP PK
Karachi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of IDBP may be taken or executed by
its Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and IDBP shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Principal Terms and Conditions
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Repayment will be made on a flexible amortization schedule
approximately in accordance with the aggregate maturities of the
sub-loans up to a maximum period of 15 years:
Interest rate               : 8% per annum
Exchange risk               : as specified in B (ii)
B.   Sub-Loans
(i) All equipment to be financed out of proceeds of a
sub-loan shall be acquired in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; such sub-loans shall bear
interest at a rate of not less than eleven per cent (11%) per
annum of the principal amount of the sub-loan outstanding from
time to time.
(ii) The exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower for
which the recipient of a sub-loan shall pay an additional fee of
2% per annum on the principal amount of the sub-loan outstanding
from time to time. IDBP shall pass such fee to the Borrower and
the Borrower shall bear the full exchange risk.
(iii) The repayment periods of sub-loans shall not exceed
the economic life of the items financed thereunder, including a
grace period of not more than 18 months; for this purpose, it is
agreed that the economic life of civil works equipment shall range
from five to ten years, that the economic life of spare parts and
replacement items shall range from two to three years, and that
the economic life of quarry equipment shall range from two to six
years.
(iv) Sub-loan agreements shall provide for approximately
equal semiannual or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal
and interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  9 k      day of
1910F .
FOR SECRETARY


