REDIT NUMBER 974 PAK
LDOCUTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 9, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 974 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1980, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower is seeking from the Government of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland a grant
(hereinafter referred to as the UK Grant) for the Province of
Punjab in an aggregate amount equivalent to £2,200,000 to assist
in financing a road maintenance project on terms and conditions to
be set forth in an exchange of letters between the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the UK Grant Document);
(C) by agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and the Baluchistan and North West Frontier Provinces
of the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as Baluchistan and NWFP),
Baluchistan and NWFP have each agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions in respect of Part B of the Project;
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(hereinafter referred to as IDBP), IDBP has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of Part C of the Project; and
(E) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recitals (C) and (D) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth


﻿-2-
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'IDBP Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (1) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are added to the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) (i) with respect to Parts A and B of the
Project, at any time the Association determines, after
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit
will not be required to finance the Project's costs to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) with
respect to Part C of the Project, by the date specified in
Section 2.03 (d) of the IDBP Project Agreement no applica-
tions for approval or requests for authorization to withdraw
from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the
Credit shall have been received by the Association, or having
been so received, shall have been denied or (c) after the
Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the IDBP Project Agreement" are added
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section
6.06; and
(e) The words "or the IDBP Project Agreement" are added
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section
10.02.


﻿-3-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a politi-
cal subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "the Provinces" mean the Provinces referred to in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of this Section;
(f)   "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g) "NWFP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and NWFP of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(h) "the Provinces Project Agreements" mean the agreements
defined in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Section and "the
respective Province Project Agreement" means in relation to any
one of the Provinces, any such agreement to which that Province is
a party;
(i) "Ordinance" means the Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan Ordinance, 1961, as modified from time to time;
(j) "IDBP" means the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan, established by the Ordinance;
(k) "IDBP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and IDBP of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;


﻿-4-
(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and IDBP pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(m) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made under Part C of the Project by IDBP to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to IDBP under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(n) "Investment Enterprise" means an eligible highway or
road contractor to which IDBP proposes to make or has made a
sub-loan;
(o) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan primarily to undertake works under
Parts A and B of the Project;
(p) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy
of IDBP as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on
April 15, 1976, as amended to date and as further amended from
time to time;
(q) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by IDBP or by any one or more
subsidiaries of IDBP or by IDBP and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries;
(r) "UNDP Project Document" means the document number
PAK/79/003/A//01/42, signed by the Borrower, the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the United Nations
Developments Programme on April 1, 1979;
(s) "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
and
(t) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-5-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation:
(a) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b) for any Investment Project included in Part C of the
Project, to finance disbursements under a sub-loan on account of
expenditures in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services supplied
from outside the territory of the Borrower, required for the
Investment Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made
in respect of a sub-loan unless (i) the sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Association, or (ii) the sub-loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
Section 2.03. (a) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan
for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of (i)
$150,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit for said Investment Project or (ii) $3,500,000 equivalent,
when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Association in consultation with IDBP.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval if such expenditures shall have been made
before the date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Association shall have received in
respect of such sub-loan the application and information required
by Section 2.03 (b) of the IDBP Project Agreement or, under a


﻿-6-
free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received in respect of such
free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (c) of the IDBP Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts
A and B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1990, and ending October 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. (a) Secretary, Economic Affairs Division, or
his nominee is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Managing Director, IDBP, or his nominee, is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of


﻿-7-
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project, cause each of the Provinces to carry out those parts of
Part B of the Project for which each Province is responsible, and
cause IDBP to carry out Part C of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose. To that end, the
Borrower shall make and cause the Provinces to make, adequate and
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
take and cause to be taken all action wnich shall be necessary
on its part to enable the Provinces to perform all their obli-
gations under the Provinces Project Agreements and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause IDBP to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the IDBP Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable
IDBP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Provinces in carry-
ing out those parts of the Project for which the Provinces are
responsible, the Borrower shall make available to the Provinces
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to them under Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to IDBP under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IDBP


﻿-8-
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to IDBP under Category (4) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall
include those outlined in the Schedule to the IDBP Project
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, other than goods and services
financed under a sub-loan, to be used exclusively for Parts A and
B of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) With respect to Parts A and B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents, training programs, and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) With respect to Parts A and B.1 of the Project, the
Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associ-
ation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure


﻿-9-
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) from time to time consult with the Association on
the size and composition of its investment plans and programs in
the highway sector;
(b) refrain from construction activity on the new Indus
Highway during its fiscal years 1978-1983; and
(c) commence work by June 30, 1980, on the overlay of
the Karachi-Hyderabad highway, and complete such work by June 30,
1984.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all actions as may
be necessary to adequately maintain its highway system and road
network, to make promptly all necessary repairs thereof in
accordance with sound engineering practices, and to maintain and
renew, as and when needed, the highway and road maintenance
equipment required for the purpose and shall provide, as and when
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor. For that purpose, the Borrower shall make, and
cause the Provinces to make, adequate and timely budgetary pro-
visions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall promptly grant approval to
Investment Projects submitted by IDBP to the Borrower in accor-
dance with the Ordinance.
Section 3.10. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the general design standards to be used
under Parts A and B of the Project, shall be as set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a detailed study by September 30, 1980, of
alternative methods of dealing with vehicle overloading;
(b) thereafter, prepare a plan of action in respect of such
overloading and timetable of implementation in consultation and
agreement with the Association by December 31, 1980; and
(c) commence to implement the appropriate recommendations of
such plan satisfactory to the Association by March 31, 1981.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) by March 31, 1980, implement a maintenance monitoring
system satisfactory to the Association, for its national highways;
(b) by December 31, 1980 implement a highway and road
maintenance training program satisfactory to the Association;
and
(c) not later than June 30, 1980, prepare a periodic main-
tenance program, satisfactory to the Association, which will be
suitable for contractors and by December 31, 1980, begin the
implementation of said program.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall collect in accordance
with appropriate statistical and technical methods and procedures
such information concerning traffic on, and construction and
maintenance costs for, the highway system and road network as
shall be reasonably required for proper planning of maintenance,
improvements and extensions of such system.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of such Province under the respec-
tive Province Project Agreement;
(b) IDBP shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or other obligation of IDBP under the IDBP Project Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Ordinance or
other legislation has been enacted or is implemented which mate-
rially and adversely affects the responsibilities or operations of
IDBP;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy which materially and adversely affects IDBP's obligations
or responsibilities under Part C of the Project without the
Association's consent;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by IDBP, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of IDBP's
business or IDBP's financial condition or the efficiency of IDBP's
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that:
(i) one or more of the Provinces shall be able to
perform its obligations under the respective
Province Project Agreement; or
(ii) IDBP will be able to perform its obligations
under the IDBP Project Agreement;
(g) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of the Borrower under the UNDP
Project Document; and


﻿- 12 -
(h) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UK Grant shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the UK Grant Document;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e) or (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (h) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of each of the Provinces
Project Agreements on behalf of the respective Province has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the IDBP Project Agreement
on behalf of IDBP have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action;


﻿- 13 -
(c) the Borrower and IDBP have entered into the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in form satisfactory to the Association, and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become fully effective and binding
on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms, subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(d) the Borrower has entered into contracts with consultants
for the supervision of the carrying out of the civil works under
the Project; and
(e) the Borrower has entered into contracts, satisfactory
to the Association, with contractors to carry out the civil works
under the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that each of the Provinces Project Agreements has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the respective Province, and is legally binding
upon such Province in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the IDBP Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, IDBP and
is legally binding upon IDBP in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and IDBP and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and IDBP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 9, 1980 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 14 -
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMIC                            ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out the of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under           32,2009000       100% of foreign
Part A of the                                 expenditures and
Project                                       40% of local ex-
pendi ture s
(2) Civil works under
Part B of the Project        1,500,000       100% of foreign
for NWFP                                     expenditures and
40% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Equipment, materials,           600,000       100% of foreign
spare parts and tools                        expenditures for
under Part A.3 of the                         imported items
Project                                      and 100% of lo-
cal expenditures
(ex-factory) for
locally manufac-
tured items and
60% of expendi-
tures for items
procured locally
(4)  Equipment, materials                         100% of foreign
spare parts and                              expenditures for
tools under Part B.2                         imported items
of the Project                               and 100% of lo-
cal expenditures
(ex-factory) for
locally manufac-
tured items and
60% of expendi-
tures for items
procured locally


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(a) NWFP                      600,000
(b) Baluchistan               400,000
(5) Loans under Part C           5,000,000       100% of amounts
of the Project                              disbursed on ac-
count of foreign
expenditures
(6) Consultants' services                        100%
(a) Supervision or          3,900,000
rehabilitation
work
(b) Technical assis-          200,000
tance to Federal
Government
(c) Technical assis-          700,000
tance to Provin-
cial Governments
(d) Project preparation     1,500,000
(7) Unallocated                  3,400,000
TOTAL        50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000
may be made in respect of Category (6) (d) on account of payments
made for such expenditures, incurred in the preparation of this
Project, before that date but after March 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, ro
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿- 18 -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Borrower
1.   Rehabilitation and improvement of about 180 km of
national highways as described in the Exhibit to this
Schedule.
2.   Preparation of future highway and road projects.
3.   Maintenance of highways.
Part B:   Provinces
1.   Rehabilitation and improvement of about 25 km of other
roads as described in the Exhibit to this Schedule.
2.   Maintenance of highways and roads.
Part C:   IDBP
Term-loans to eligible highway and road contractors to
permit them to acquire road construction and maintenance
equipment, spare parts and tools, primarily to carry out
works under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1983.


﻿- 20 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Province      National Highway Sections       Other Road Sections
Punjab        Part of Lahore - Sahewal
(about 125 km)
Sind          Part of Rohri - Kandiaro
(about 50-100 km)
NWFP          Khairabad - Nowshera            Peshawar - Charsadda
(about 30 km)                   (about 25 km)


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement for Parts A and B
of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the 'Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included under Parts A and B of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 23 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Categories (1) and (3) of the table set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparisnn of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment (including laboratory equipment), materials, spare
parts and tools for road maintenance under Part B.2 of the Project


﻿- 24 -
with unit prices not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000 may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided that the aggregate
expenditure of items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent
of $200,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part C above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all civil works contracts, and contracts for
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited,       Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the


﻿- 25 -
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design Speed                                      80 Kph Minimum
Minimum Curve Radius                         254 m
Maximum Superelevation                       8%
Maximum Gradient                             5%
Safe Stopping Distance                       107 m
Minimum Vertical Curve Length                64 m
Width of Surfaced Roadway                    7.3 m or the
existing width
whichever is
greater
Width of Compacted Shoulders                 1.7 m
Crossfall                                    2% on Pavement
4% on Shoulders
Side Slopes                                  2 Horizontal:
1 Vertical


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness. whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   V A   ,
1F                           SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


