Report No. PID4319
Project Name                     Russia-Second Highway Rehabilitation (@+) ...
and Maintenance Project (HRMP-II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       RUPA42722
Borrower                         Government of the Russian
Federation
Implementing Agency              Russian Federal Highway Administration (RFHA)
4 Bochkov Street, Moscow, Russia
Environment Category             B
Date Initial PID Prepared        August 5, 1996
Date This PID Prepared           February 5, 1998
Appraisal  Date                  September 15, 1997 (first stage)
Board Date                       December 22, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.               PRIVATE   Road transport in the future will undoubtedly play a
larger role in Russia's overall transport system than it has in the past.
Historically, railways dominated transport in the command economy of the FSU.
In the market economy now being developed in Russia, however, the proportion
of the country's total traffic moving by railway is expected to decline
significantly as traffic increasingly shifts to roads. The anticipated growth
in road traffic will place a heavy burden on the sparse road network
comprising facilities designed for relatively low traffic volumes.
Exacerbating the problem of limited capacity of the system is the fact that
much of the network is in poor condition. tc    \l 1 "    Road transport in the
future will undoubtedly play a larger role in Russia's overall transport
system than it has in the past. Historically, railways dominated transport in
the command economy of the FSU. In the market economy now being developed in
Russia, however, the proportion of the country's total traffic moving by
railway is expected to decline significantly as traffic increasingly shifts to
roads. The anticipated growth in road traffic will place a heavy burden on
the sparse road network comprising facilities designed for relatively low
traffic volumes. Exacerbating the problem of limited capacity of the system
is the fact that much of the network is in poor condition."
2. PRIVATE               The sparcity of the road network is particularly evident in
Siberia and the Far East (less than one km of paved road per 1,000 km2 of area
compared with a national average of 16 km of paved road per 1,000 km2 of
area). Large sections of the region, however, have little population and
therefore their road needs are small. Several large and moderate size cities
(Omsk, Novosibirsk, Irkutsk, Krasnoyarsk, etc.) are to be found along a
lengthy east/west corridor of Siberia, more or less paralleling the southern
border of Russia, and these cities are linked by a major federal road. Many



road sections and bridges on these main roads, along with some related
regional roads, are in poor condition and, because of the economic
significance of these key arteries, the project gives them high priority.
Only a very poor road connection exists between Chita and Khabarovsk; the
Russian Government would like to build a good road here, thus completing an
all-weather road linking Siberia and the Far East. This road construction
project, however, was rejected for HRMP-II on the basis that new construction
is currently a lower economic priority that rehabilitation of existing
roads. tc  \l 1 "        The sparsity of the road network is particularly evident in
Siberia and the Far East (less than one km of paved road per 1,000 km2 of area
compared with a national average of 16 km of paved road per 1,000 km2 of
area). Large sections of the region, however, have little population and
therefore their road needs are small. Several large and moderate size cities
(Omsk, Novosibirsk, Krasnoyarsk, Chita, etc.) are to be found along a lengthy
east/west corridor of Siberia, more or less paralleling the southern border of
Russia, and these cities are linked by a major federal road. In the Far East,
an important road connects Vladivostok with Khabarovsk to the north. Many
road sections and bridges on these main roads, along with some related
regional roads, are in poor condition and, because of the economic
significance of these key arteries, the proposed project will give them high
priority. Only a very poor road connection exists between Chita and
Khabarovsk; the Russian Government would like to build a good road here, thus
completing an all-weather road linking Siberia and the Far East. Such a road
construction project, however, has a lower priority than rehabilitation of
existing main roads."
3. PRIVATE               Elsewhere east of the Urals, there are rich in basis
resources areas where road rehabilitation is a priority need; they include
Western Siberia which accounts for more than 70% of the nation's vital oil
production. Road works in those rich in natural resources areas will
facilitate the production and export of commodities crucial for Russia's
economic growth.  tc   \l 1 "    Elsewhere east of the Urals, there are areas
where road rehabilitation may be a priority need; they include Siberia's oil
and gas producing region and districts around Yakutsk and Magadan. Western
Siberia, which accounts for more than 70% of the nation's vital oil
production, may have road rehabilitation needs that warrant inclusion in the
project. Much of that oil production is concentrated in Tyumen Oblast and
thus road rehabilitation in this region could be of particular interest
relative to the proposed project. Road works here may facilitate the
production and export of oil and gas, commodities of major importance to the
economy of Russia."
4.              As a result of Russia's integration into the world economy and
extensive trade with European countries, PRIVATE traffic growth on main
roads that link Russia with Europe has exceeded anticipated levels. The
increased traffic resulted in faster than expected road deterioration and
worsening of road safety conditions. Currently, these roads urgently need to
be rehabilitated to cease further road deterioration, ease traffic on
congested sections, and improve safety conditions.
5.              The strategy of the government for strengthening the transportation
sector includes a strong commitment to the rehabilitation of existing roads
and bridges, many of which are in seriously deteriorated condition; in
contrast, the commitment of resources to new construction of roads and bridges
is comparatively small. A major goal of the government's sectoral strategy is
-2 -



to carry out basic reform of policies and procedures of the Russian Federal
Highway Administration (RFHA) including restructuring of the road financing
system, expanded use of international competitive bidding, and institutional
strengthening of RFHA. The government also is encouraging the development of
local private contracting and consulting industries. Since 1994, the Bank has
assisted in the formulation and implementation of the government's strategy
through the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HRMP) and the
Bridge Rehabilitation Project (BRP). The sectoral strategy will be carried
out still further through HRMP-II. tc   \l 1 "   The strategy of the government
for strengthening the transportation sector includes a strong commitment to
the rehabilitation of existing roads and bridges, many of which are in
seriously deteriorated condition; in contrast, the commitment of resources to
new construction of roads and bridges is comparatively small. A major goal of
the government's sectoral strategy is to carry out basic reform of policies
and procedures of the Federal Highway Administration (FHA) including expanded
use of international competitive bidding, procedures that were introduced
under the Bank's first highway project in Russia. The government also is
encouraging the development of local private contracting and consulting
industries. Since 1994, the Bank has assisted in the formulation and
implementation of the government's strategy through the Highway Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project (HRMP) and the Bridge Rehabilitation Project (BRP).
The sectoral strategy will be carried out still further through the proposed
project."
Objectives
6.              The project will contribute to the preservation of the existing road
network in Russia through a program of road and bridge rehabilitation. The
principal objectives of the project are to: (i) contribute to major
improvements in road financing, particularly increasing significantly the road
user charges paid by heavy trucks; (ii) improve the condition of selected high
priority roads and bridges on the federal road system and the regional road
systems of Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk regions, avoiding or mitigating any
adverse environmental and social impacts of the road improvements, and
institutionally strengthening the capacity of RFHA to manage and monitor such
impacts; (iii) improve the administrative efficiency of the activities of RFHA
and the road administrations of the participating regions and enhance their
maintenance management capability; (iv) further develop the private road
constructing and consulting industries and expand the use of competitive
bidding beyond projects financed by Bank loans; and (v) improve the allocation
of local resources employed in road works by promoting better economic
selection of projects.
7.              Achievement of the project objectives will be evaluated based on:
(i) the proportion of the attributable costs of heavy trucks recovered through
user charges; (ii) the length of federal and regional roads improved from poor
or fair condition to good condition; (iii) the proportion of locally financed
road and bridge works awarded to private firms through competitive bidding;
(iv) annual financial and technical audit of the Federal Road Fund; and (v)
the proportion of local funds allocated to road and bridge works based on cost
benefit analyses.
Description
8.              The project will include the rehabilitation of about 900 km of high
-3 -



priority roads and rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement, and
widening of about 68 high priority bridges under the federal and regional
components of the project. It is expected more works related to unallocated
amount of the loan ($30 million), utilization of which will be defined during
the first year of implementation.
9.              During the first construction period, contracts will be initiated
which include approximately 200 km of roads. The main program of works will be
implemented beginning in the second construction period. The specific road and
bridge works to be included in the second and subsequent years of the project
are identified in the consultants' feasibility study.
10.             The main program of road and bridge rehabilitation will include a
much larger number of roads sections and bridges than the first year program.
The main construction program will be spread over at least four years during
which contracts will be awarded. Each contract will specify a time limit,
generally from one to two years in duration. The main program of road and
bridge rehabilitation includes priority roads and bridges on principal federal
roads and regional roads in Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk Krais. The road
segments and bridges have been selected from priority lists (prepared by the
consultants responsible for the feasibility study), which show the expected
ERR for each road section and bridge.
11.             Road and bridge works contracts will be organized as slice and
package construction contracts so that smaller firms can participate, as well
as larger firms which can price bids based on economies of scale. It is
anticipated that there will be some packages of around US$15 million but that
there may also be packages (composed of slices between US$5 million and US$15
million) amounting to about US$50 million. This SBD has been translated into
Russian and is the basis for the national standard contract used in federal
road works financed with local funds. It is proposed to continue the use of
this SBD for the proposed project for contracts up to US$10 million
equivalent. Above this threshold, the SBD for Larger Works should be used,
thus consolidating its initial use under BRP. Bridges of standard design which
are located within a road link being rehabilitated will generally be included
in the contract for that road link. Bridges of non-standard design, or for
which the estimated construction cost exceeds $1.0 million, will be contracted
separately or combined with other bridges of non-standard design.
Procurement of Bridge and Road Equipment
12.             Procurement of equipment for office modernization and vehicles,
equipment, materials and supplies as an aid for better management of roads and
bridges.
13.             Design, Supervision, Technical Assistance and Training.    This
component includes assistance to RFHA (including DORINVEST) and to the
participating regions and their implementation units, for design of road and
bridge works and supervision of such works, specialized consultants, and
training of federal road and bridge staff. This component will continue and
expand the institution-building activities financed under the on-going HRMP
and BRP, including improvement of the administrative, technical, and financial
functions of RFHA and the regions of the Russian Federation.
a)               Policy Support. The project will support improvements of RFHA
- 4 -



policies for road and bridge management. The project will also support
appropriate policy development for road and bridge management for regional
road administrations.
b)               Project Preparation and Implementation Support. Support will be
provided under the project in procurement and project management to the
Project Implementation Units of RFHA and the participating regions.
Consultants will be retained to diagnose the condition of road segments and
bridges identified for inclusion in the project, design remedial works,
prepare bidding documents, and supervise the works. This component will also
comprise a provision for preparation of follow-up projects, including relevant
social, financial, economic, environmental studies, and an Indigenous Peoples'
Development Plan for the Tobolsk--Khanty-Mansiysk road area if the Tyumen--
Tobolsk road is to be rehabilitated. This component will also include
financing of annual audit of the project accounts.
c)               Institutional Development and Training. Technical staff of RFHA will
be provided technical training in road and bridge maintenance and management.
This component will include strengthening the professional capacity to
undertake environmental evaluations and analyze social-cultural problems in
the highway sector, develop related guidelines, policies and training and
promote increased inter-institutional coordination. Staff of the PIUs of the
participating regions will be provided training in project planning,
procurement procedures, financial controls, and administration of works.
PRIVATE
Financing
14. PRIVATE              The total cost of the project is estimated at US$666.7
million equivalent and the main components are as follows: (i) Federal Road
and Bridge Works estimated to cost US$478.2 million; (ii) Bridge and Road
Management Equipment estimated to cost US$3.0 million; (iii) Design of Works,
Construction Supervision, Technical Assistance and Training, estimated to cost
US$52.2 million; and (iv) Regional Road and Bridge Works Program, estimated to
cost US$83.3 million. Utilization of unallocated $30 million will be defined
during the first year of implementation.
Implementation
15. PRIVATE              The federal component of the project will be implemented by
the Federal Highway Administration, using the PIU (i.e., Dorinvest)
established under the HRMP and BRP. Dorinvest has proven to be an effective
implementation agency and, with additional staff and material resources,
should be able to administer the federal component. Following the pattern
established under the BRP, the regional component will be implemented by the
regions under subsidiary loan agreements between the Ministry of Finance and
each of the regions. Each region will be responsible for selecting
consultants, ensuring adequate design standards by the consultants,
undertaking international bidding of works and carrying out general
implementation activities. Dorinvest will make the documentation and
procedures developed by it available to the regions, and may provide technical
assistance on request, and will coordinate communications with the Bank and
supervision activities by the Bank. tc \l 1 " The federal component of the
project will be implemented by the Federal Highway Administration, using the
PIU (i.e., Dorinvest) established under the HRMP and BRP. Dorinvest has
proven to be an effective implementation agency and, with additional staff and
- 5 -



material resources, should be able to administer the federal component.
Following the pattern established under the BRP, the regional component will
be implemented by the regions under subsidiary loan agreements between the
Ministry of Finance and each of the regions. Each region will be responsible
for selecting consultants, ensuring adequate design standards by the
consultants, undertaking international bidding of works and carrying out
general implementation activities. Dorinvest will make the documentation and
procedures developed by it available to the regions, and may provide technical
assistance on request, and will coordinate communications with the Bank and
supervision activities by the Bank."
Sustainability
16. PRIVATE              The project would enhance the capacity of federal and
regional highway agencies to plan, finance and implement highway
rehabilitation and maintenance and therefore ensure sustainability by: (i)
enhancing resource mobilization; (ii) increasing the efficiency of
construction and maintenance through improved design and supervision of bridge
works, and improvement of the road and bridge management system; (iii) use of
local contractors for rehabilitation and maintenance; and (iv) improved
environmental management and social mitigation. tc    \l 1 "      The project
would enhance the capacity of federal and regional highway agencies to plan,
finance and implement highway rehabilitation and maintenance and therefore
ensure sustainability by\: (i) enhancing resource mobilization; (ii)
increasing the efficiency of construction and maintenance through improved
design and supervision of bridge works, and improvement of the road and bridge
management system; and (iii) use of local contractors for rehabilitation and
maintenance."
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
17.              PRIVATE   Lessons learned from the Highway Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Loan, the Bridge Rehabilitation Loan and other ongoing loans in
Russia highlight the importance of: (i) identifying a committed counterpart
team with sufficient authority to move the project forward; (ii) coordinating
among key interested parties at the technical and central levels on critical
or controversial project issues; (iii) early detailed attention to procurement
and other implementation issues, particularly in view of the short
construction season in Russia; (iv) involving local consultants and institutes
in the process; (v) carrying out a pilot component in the first project year;
and (vi) anticipating long delays in the Russian Government satisfying
requirements for loan effectiveness. The proposed project will benefit from
the experience of Dorinvest, which will be responsible for the implementation
of the federal component of the project and will assist the participating
regions to implement their component. The design of the project has taken
account of the above lessons through detailed plans for procurement and
implementation of the project, and involvement of the oblasts in the
preparation of the project and the use of local consultants in association
with international consultants to carry out the feasibility study. tc    \l 1
Lessons learned from the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Loan and
other ongoing loans in Russia highlight the importance of\: (i) identifying a
committed counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the project
forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties at the technical and
central levels on critical or controversial project issues; (iii) early
detailed attention to procurement and other implementation issues,
- 6 -



particularly in view of the short construction season in Russia; (iv)
involving local consultants and institutes in the process; and (v) carrying
out a pilot component in the first project year. The Bridge Rehabilitation
Project will benefit from the experience of Dorinvest, the project
implementation unit for the HRMP, since Dorinvest will be responsible for the
implementation of the federal component of the project and will assist the
participating regions to implement their component. The design of the project
has taken account of the above lessons through detailed plans for procurement
and implementation of the project, involvement of the oblasts and the City of
Moscow in the preparation of the project and the use of local consultants to
carry out the bridge feasibility study."
18.              PRIVATE   The Bank's experience in highway projects in other
countries and in Russia with the ongoing HRMP and BRP shows that a key to
successful implementation of a project is a concerted effort to ensure that
all stakeholders are involved in the project from the outset. A series of
action-planning workshops has been organized and conducted by RFHA staff, Bank
staff and selected regions. The purpose of the workshops has been: (i) to
develop and review responsible and attainable action plans for project
implementation, and (ii) develop project planning and design and strategic
management skills within the highway sector and monitor project
implementation. Experience gained by RFHA and Dorinvest in the above workshops
will be used to carry out a HRMP-2 Launch Workshop, as well as follow-up
workshops. tc   \l 1 "   The Bank's experience in highway projects in other
countries and in Russia with the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project shows that a key to successful implementation of a project
is a concerted effort to ensure that all stakeholders are involved in the
project from the outset. A series of action-planning workshops will therefore
be organized and conducted by FHD staff, Bank staff and specialized
consultants. The purpose of the workshops will be twofold\: (i) to develop
and review responsible and attainable action plans for project implementation,
and (ii) develop project planning and design and strategic management skills
within the highway sector and monitor project implementation. Experience
gained by FHD and Dorinvest in the HRMP launch workshop will be beneficial for
the Project Launch Workshop."
Poverty Category
PRIVATE  N.A. tc   \l 1 "       N.A."
Environmental and Social Aspects
19.              PRIVATE   As part of the project feasibility studies for project
preparation, environmental and social assessments for the federal project
component and two regional project components (Krasnoyarsk Krai and Khabarovsk
Krai) were carried out as per the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01 and the
requirements of the Russian Federation. According to the reports, since the
majority of work is restricted to the existing right-of-way, the direct impact
of the federal-regional road rehabilitation project will be restricted to the
right-of-way. No new construction is included in the project. No land
acquisition is anticipated. The project will also reduce road congestion
around some of the major cities, and improve air quality in residential areas.
20.             The EA reports state that the vast majority of project works will
-7 -



not cause significant environmental degradation, since the works will largely
occur on road sites that are generally already highly modified, free of
environmentally sensitive areas and with clear right-of-way. The project will
use best affordable management construction practices to control and/or limit
damage to the environment. The EA reports identify a number of locations
where major bridge rehabilitation works will be undertaken. These are sites at
which special fish habitat mitigation and compensation measures have been
recommended as per the requirements of the Russian Federation.
21.             While only minimal impacts on land use are expected, potential
environmental impacts include: (i) air and noise pollution during construction
and during operation in urban areas; (ii) dust and smoke from material
transport, crushers and asphalt plants during construction; (iii) pollution
from accidental spills of oil, fuel, lubricants, etc.; and (iv) operation of
borrow areas, quarries and construction camps. An environmental management
plan that will include mitigating and monitoring measures, will be carried out
as part of the final engineering design. It will cover the issues mentioned
above.
Program Objective Categories
22. PRIVATE              Program Objective Categories.   The project supports several
aspects of the Bank's program objectives, which include: assisting in reform
of the institutional structure of road administration, road financing system,
and the contracting industry, furthering the use of competitive bidding;
improving road safety; and reducing environmental pollution. tc \l 1 "
Program Objective Categories. The project supports several aspects of
the Bank's program objectives, which include\: assisting in reform of the
institutional structure of road administration and the contracting industry,
and furthering the use of competitive bidding; improving road safety; and
reducing environmental pollution."
23. PRIVATE              Participatory Approach.  RFHA and local consultants from
the sector have been guiding preparation of the project since its inception,
including the process for selection of participating regions. The regions are
committed to the reform process, including adoption of competitive bidding for
road and bridge works. The participation of RFHA and regional officials is
expected to continue during implementation through periodic workshops and
project mid-term review. tc \l 1 "
Participatory Approach. FHA, local consultants and Ministry of Transport
(MOT) officials from the sector have been guiding preparation of the project
since its inception, including the process for selection of participating
regions. The regions are committed to the reform process, including adoption
of competitive bidding for bridge works. The participation of FHA, the
regions and MOT officials is expected to continue during implementation
through periodic workshops and project mid-term review."
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
-8-



Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Program Team Leader
Anders Bonde, ECSIN
tel: (202) 473-9272
fax: (202) 477-3378
internet: abonde@worldbank.org
Government Contacts:
1.      Federal
Mr. Andrey Kalinin                                tel: (7-095) 2887739
Head                                              fax: (7-095)2817982
Center for Implementation of IBRD Loans internet: rhw@comtel.ru
18 Giljarovskogo Street
129090 Moscow
Russian Federation
2.      Regional
a)      Krasnoyarsk:                                      tel: (7-3912) 950601
Ms. Natalia Chernogubova                          fax: (7-3912) 650641
Head, Krasnoyarsk Region Road Administration
3 Robesper Street
P. 0. Box 750, Krasnoyarsk 660075
Russian Federation
b)       Khabarovsk:
Mr. Vladimir Smetanko          tel: (7-4212) 342925
Head, Khabarovskavtodor             (7-4212) 340780
51 Nekrasov Street             fax: (7-4212) 342428
Khabarovsk 680021
Russian Federation
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 19, 1999.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 10 -



