Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17128 RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
November 20, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  Ruble (Rb)
US$1.00 = Rb 16.99 (market rate, November 17, 1998)
Rb 1.00 =US$ 0.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRP             -      Bridge Rehabilitation Project
CAS             -      Country Assistance Strategy
CQ              -      Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
EBRD            -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR             -      Economic Rate of Return
FHWA            -      US Federal Highway Administration
FRD             -      Federal Road Directorates
FRF             -      Federal Road Fund
HRMP            -      Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
HRMP-11         -      Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
ICB             -      International Competitive Bidding
LCS             -      Least Cost Selection
MOF             -      Ministry of Finance
MOT             -      Ministry of Transport
MUT             -      Moscow Urban Transport Project (Planned)
NBF             -      Not Bank-Financed
NCB             -      National Competitive Bidding
NPV             -      Net Present Value
PCD             -      Project Concept Document
PIP             -      Procurement Implementation Plan
PIU             -      Project Implementation Unit
QBS             -      Quality-Based Selection
QCBS            -      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RFHA            -      Russia Federal Highway Administration
RRA             -      Regional Road Administration
SAL3            -      Third Structural Adjustment Loan
SBD             -      Standard Bidding Document
SFB             -      Selection from Fixed Budget
SOE             -      Statement of Expense
USSR            -      Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
UTP             -      Urban Transport Project
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Michael Carter
Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Cesar Queiroz



Russia
Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
CONTENTS
Page No
A.  Project Development Objective ..................................................................                                                                 I
1.  Project Development Objective  and  Key  Perfonnance  Indicators ........................................3
B.  Strategic  Context   .................................................................. 3
1.  Sector-Related  CAS  Goal Supported  by the  Project ............................................................3
2.  Main  Sector Issues and  Government Strategy ...................................................................5
3.  Sector Issues to  be Addressed  by  the  Project and  Strategic  Choices ......... ..........................5
C.  Project Description  Summary ...................................................................9
1.  Project Components ...................................................................9
2.  Key  Policy  and  Institutional Reforms Supported  by  the  Project ..........................................9
3.  Benefits and  Target Population ...................................................................9
4.  Institutional and  Implementation  Arrangements .......................1.......................................... I 0
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                                              13
1.  Project Alternatives Considered  and  Reasons for Rejection .................................13............... 13
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ............. 13
3.  Lessons Learned  and  Reflected  in  Proposed  Project Design   ................................................ 14
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and  Ownership ......................................................... 14
5.  Value Added  of Bank  Support in  this Project ..................................................................   15
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................................................                                                                        15
1.  Economic  Analysis ..................................................................                                                              15
2.  Financial Analysis ..................................................................                                                               16
3.  Technical Evaluation .................................................................. 16
4.  Institutional Assessment ..........16...........                                                                                                    16
5. Social Assessment .                                                                                                                                  18
6. Environmental Assessment                                                                        .19
7. Participatory Approach .23
F. Sustainability and Risks .23
1. Sustainabilitv .23
2. Critical Risks .24
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .25



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                               25
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..................                                         25
2. Other ..................                                                            25
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                       27
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                      27
Annexes
Annex I   Project Design Summarv .2X
Annex 2    Detailed Project Description .32
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs .34
Annex 4    Cost-Benefit Analysis Summar .36
Annex 5  Financial Summary .45
Annex 6        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .46
Table A        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .48
Table Al    Consultant Selection Arrangements .49
Table B        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .50
Table C    Allocation of Loan Proceeds .51
Annex 7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .52
Annex 8        Documents in the Project File...                                                53
Annex 9    Statement of Loans and Credits .55
Annex 10  Country at a Glance .5
Map: IBRD 29208R



Russia
Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: November. 1998                                Team Leader: Cesar Queiroz
Country Director: Michael Carter                    Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: RIJ-PE42722   Sector: Infrastructure    Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:   I I Yes  Ixi No
Project Financing Data              [xi Loan        I I Credit     I I Guarantee      I I Other iSpecifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$400
Proposed terms:                        I I  Multicurrency     ixJ  Single currency. US$
Grace period (years): 5           I I Standard Variable   I I  Fixed         lxl  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge:
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                               266.7                                267.0
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                                         400.0            400.0
IDA
Other (specifv)
Total       266.7               400.0            666.7
Borrower: Russian Federation
Guarantor: None
Responsible agency(ies): Russia Federal Highway Admninistration (RFHA)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999      2000       2001       2002    2003    2004
Annual 23.3       78.9        96. 6      112.8   64.5    23.9
Cumulative 23.3       102.2       198.8      311.6   376.1   400.0
For RFHA Component
Annual 20.6       64.8        75.6       84.4   50.3    19.3
Cumulative 20.6       85.4       161.0       245.4  295.7   315.0
For Krasnoyarsk Krai Component
Annual 1.2        3.8         4.6        6.2    3.0       1.2
Cumulative 1.2        5.0        9.6         15.6   18.8    20.0



2
For Khabarovsk Kral Component
Annual 1.5         6.8         8.9         10.4    6.0      1.4
Cumulative 1.5         8.3         17.2        27.6    33.6     35.0
Unallocated
Annual             3.5         7.5         11.9   5.1       2.0
3.5         11.0       22.9    28X0      30.0(
For Guarantees:                                  I    Partial credit    I  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:              I    Yes                I I   No
If ves. estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 98-04  Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/1999   Expected closing date: 12/31/20(04



3
A: Project Development Objective
1.  Project Development Objective ant Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
The specific objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) contribute to major improvements in road financing, particularly increasing significantly the road user
charges paid by heavy trucks,
(ii) improve the condition of selected high priority roads and bridgers on the federal road system. includillg
Siberia and the Far East, and the regional road systems of Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk regions, avoiding or
mitigating any adverse environmental and social impacts of the road improvements, and institutionally
strengthening the capacity of the Russian Federal Highway Administration (RFHA) to manage and monitor
such impacts;
(iii) improve contract management by RFHA and the road administr7ations of the participating regions and
enhance their maintenance management capability;
(iv) further develop the private road constructing and consulting industries and expand the use of competitive
bidding beyond projects financed by Bank loans; and
(v) improve the allocation of local resources employed in road works by promoting better economic selection
of projects.
Achievement of the project objectives will be evaluated based on:
(i) the proportion of the attributable costs of heavy trucks recovered through user charges;
(ii) the length of federal and regional roads improved from poor or fair condition to good condition;
(iii) the proportion of locally financed road and bridge works awarded to private firms through competitive
bidding;
(iv) annual financial and technical audit of the Federal Road Fund; and
(v) the proportion of local funds allocated to road and bridge works based on cost benefit analyses.
B: Strategic Context
1.  .Sector-Related (Country Assistanice StratejU (('A.S) Goal AYupported hy the Project (vee Annex I)
CAS document number: 16549-RU    Date of latest CAS discussion: 5/6/97
The 1997 CAS stipulates satisfactory completion of all previous policy agreements, as well as efficient
project implementation, as key trigger conditions for repeater operations. This is applicable to the Second
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HRMP-II). In this regard, the key conditionalities under
the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HRMP) and Bridge Rehabilitation Project
(BRP) are to: (i) develop understanding of sector expenditure needs; (ii) conduct a Road Financing Study;



4
and (iii) introduce competitive procurement. These conditionalities have been met, and implementation of
the HRIvIP and BRP is proceeding satisfactorily.
As stated in the 1997 CAS, the Bank's involvement with the highway sector supports the key objective of
developing the country's infrastructure by contributing to: (i) develop viable financing mechanisms for
investments in transportation; and (ii) improve efficiency of planning and implementation of transportation
projects.  In these areas, the 1997 CAS also specified triggers for the proposed project as being: (i)
agreement on user fees for medium-term road financing program; and (ii) rationalization of expenditure
priorities. The above objectives are being addressed by the proposed project.
*  Concerning user fees, agreement has been reached with the Government on a plan for improved financing
of the Road Fund which will increase cost recovery from road users, particularly heavy trucks. The
Government informed the Bank that it envisages to a) substitute the fuel and lubricants sales taxes with
an increase in the existing gasoline excise tax and introduce diesel and lubricants excise taxes, b)
gradually abolish the regional enterprise tax by the year 2001, c) considerably increase vehicle taxes, and
substitute their horse-power base with cubic-cm base, which is considered to be more effective. The
Government proposals, which would be monitored under the proposed project, will result in an increase
in excise fuel taxes and taxes for heavy trucks.
*  Concerning rationalizing expenditures, a number of steps are envisaged under the project.  The
Government is committed to increase the efficiency of the investments in road works required to reduce
the deterioration and eventually expand the Russian road network. Under the ongoing HRMP and BRP,
the Russian road sector has been exposed to the use of modem economic analysis tools to determine the
optimum strategy for improving the condition of road sections and bridges. The proposed operation will
be a key instrument to expand the use of such analysis tools. A project conditionality stipulates that, by
December 3 1, 2000, all road construction and reconstruction works financed from federal and
participating regions' budgets will be subject to economic feasibility. The Government is also committed
to introduce broader use of competitive procurement in road works, not only under the Bank-financed
projects, but also under road works financed by the Road Funds. A project conditionality stipulates that,
by December 31, 2000, all road construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation for RFHA and
participating regions will be subject to competitive bidding. Technical assistance and training under the
Second Highway Rehabilitation and Mp;ntenance Project will foster the increased use of ICB for road
works, thus expanding opportunities for private sector firms while improving administrative efficiency of
road administrations and achieving more efficient use of the resources available.
The CAS notes that, while retaining focus on European Russia, the Government has asked the Bank to
expand the regional coverage of Bank operations to include eastern Russia. In response, the Bank has
developed specific operations, such as the Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, which
will help underpin the expanded regional focus of the CAS.
Circumstances in Russia have of course changed considerably since the CAS was discussed in the Board in
June 1997, due to the economic crisis in the summer of 1998. An Updating Note in the Country Assistance
Strategy is being issued to the Board separately. It appears that counterpart funding for the project will still
be available,.despite the financial crisis, since the project represents the highest priority expenditures. Annual
expenditures under the Federal component accounts for only a maximum of 10 percent of 1997 Road Fund
expenditure levels, and the regional components are a similar share of the relevant regional expenditures on
highways. Nevertheless, progress in implementation will be closely supervised and adjustments in project
scope will be promptly made if warranted.



5
2.  Main Vector Is-ues ad (Governiment itrategy
The Russian Federation has adopted a development strategy for the transport sector that aims to correct
major shortcoming of the transport system that was developed under the USSR. In the former Soviet Union,
the road network and road transport were seriously neglected, and the Federation is therefore now
strengthening these facilities which are so essential to a modern tr,ansport system. Moreover, the Government
seeks to involve private firms in the transport sector, particularly in undertaking road works and in road
transport. While there are real needs for rehabilitation and modernization of facilities in rail, river and air
transport, and in the nation's ports, the highest priority in the sector is clearly to strengthen and develop the
road network and road transport. This priority is indicated in the presidential decree No 403 of April 23,
1997, on highway sector reform which states that "when developing economic programs and drafts of the
federal budgets for 1998 and subsequent years, the Governmenl. of the Russian Federation is hereby
authorized to regard the construction of motor roads as a priority objective due to motor roads' positive
impact on the development of agriculture and regions of the country, creation of new jobs, resolving traffic
safety and environmental problems in large cities."
One of the objectives of the Government's 1994 "Roads of Russia Program for Road Improvement and
Development in the Russian Federation 1995-2000" is to enhance road traffic safety through a variety of
measures including reconstruction of accident-prone road segments. In fact, the Government is implementing
a federal program entitled "Measures to Improve Traffic Safety in Russia, 1996-1998" based on a recent law
on traffic safety. There is evidence of significant gains in this area: in spite of sharp increases in vehicle
ownership and traffic volumes in recent years, the number of deaths due to traffic accidents was below
30,000 in 1996, the lowest annual casualty rate since the collapse ofthe Soviet Union. Nevertheless, traffic
safety should be further improved and the rehabilitation of roads and bridges is recognized as an important
means of accomplishing that objective.
3.  Seclor Issues to be Addressed hy the Project and Stralegic ('hoices
a)  Sector Issues
The Bank carried out a transport sector strategy update in 1998 and the relevant recommended strategies are
indicated below.
(I) The road financing system has been undergoing reform. RFHA has developed improved, more efficient
tools for allocation of funds, as a result of which the proportion of the Federal Road Fund allocated to
federal road maintenance and rehabilitation has increased from 40.7% of FRF in 1995, to 43.1% in 1996
and to 53.4% in 1997. New taxes have been introduced to increase cost recovery from operation of
heavy trucks. Further road financing improvements are needed 1:o achieve greater economic efficiency in
the collection of road user funds and their allocation to road works. The Phase II of the Road Financing
Study, completed in March 1998, provides recommendations to improve the road financing system in
Russia. The objectives of the study were to (i) define the financial requirements for the development and
improvement of the public highway network; (ii) define the economic efficiency of investments in the
public highway network and improvement; (iii) analyze the existing system of highway financing in
Russia; and (iv) develop recommendations for improving the financing system including methods for
determining appropriate rates for fees and taxes, the system fo:r their collection and the preservation of
dedicated road funds. Recognizing the insufficiency of current resources to tackle all road needs, the
Russian Federation is considering several options to charge tolls on some of the highest trafficked roads
and involving the private sector in the financing of new facilities.



6
t2) Many roads and bridges in Russia have deteriorated to the point where they are unreliable, resulting in
slow operating speeds by road users, causing high vehicle operating costs and accounting for loss of
travel time and a high number of accidents. The rate of deterioration of many of these facilities is
accelerating. As a result, the priority need for funds to rehabilitate and maintain roads and bridges is
particularly strong. In addition, in view of the poor condition of many roads and bridges on the federal
road network and the projected increase in traffic volumes and axle loads, a program of bridge
rehabilitation and reconstruction is appropriate over the next ten years. HRMP and BRP as well as the
proposed HfIRMP-II are major initiatives toward these goals. Under ongoing HRMIP and BRP, a
significant amount of this infrastructure deterioration in European Russia is being halted as road and
bridge facilities are undergoing rehabilitation; however, it is essential to rehabilitate additional facilities
throughout Russia and improve the functional performance of the main roads in the vicinity of large
cities by buiiding bypasses. As greater attention is directed toward rehabilitation and construction of the
Russian roads more consideration will need to be given to environmental and social management issues,
including the effects of these works on critical ecosystems, indigenous peoples, forest resources, etc.
The federal road system has appropriately received priority attention in the Bank's strategy for
strengthening the transport system of Russia; these roads are the most vital road links in the country.
However, rehabilitation and maintenance are also required on key regional roads and bridges, as
recognized in the inclusion of three regions and the City of Moscow in the BRP. Since the regions now
have a considerable degree of autonomy and responsibility for roads under the decentralized system of
Government, it seems timely that under the proposed project the Bank provide assistance to regions in
Siberia and the Far East. The inclusion of two regions in the project will involve on-lending from the
federal Government to these regional Governments. Factors considered in selecting regions included: (i)
the physical condition of the roads and bridges; (ii) economic importance of the region; (iii) relatively
high road traffic levels by regional standards; (iv) commitment to reform of road administration and a
separation of administrative functions and the execution of works; (v) commitment to development of
the private contracting industry; (vi) the number and nature of other Bank-financed projects in the
region; (vii) financial condition of the region and willingness to borrow for the project and bear the
foreign exchange risk, (viii) project preparation and implemenfation conditions; (ix) sound
administration of the regional road fund in terms of collection and responsible disposition of the funds
for highway purposes only; and (x) impacts on environment and indigenous peoples.
(3) Road administrators have become more efficient in contract administration under ongoing projects as
they gain experience in this work, and with the aid of technical assistance and training, thus enhancing
their management capacity to maintain, rehabilitate and build roads. Policies and procedures of highway
organizations, however, at both the federal and regional levels, require further reform and modernization
to enable those organizations to perform more effectively, particularly to enable them to contract
increasingly with private sector road construction firms based on international competitive bidding.
Though substantial progress has been made in institutional reform under ongoing projects, especially in
introducing ICB procurement practices in the western part of Russia, it is important to extend the new
practices to Siberia and the Far East.
(4) There is a need to expand private participation in the sector by strengthening and enlarging the private
construction and consulting industries, building on the substantial progress already achieved under
ongoing projects. There were ten joint ventures with Russian contractors under HIRMP, and twenty-nine
Russian contractors and six joint ventures with Russian contractors prequalified under BRP. Similar
private sector accomplishments are expected under the proposed project.



7
Expanding the market-based competitive contracting industry requires changes in Govemmental
institutions that deal with this evolving industry. While there ha,ve been significant achievements in this
regard through the implementation of HRMP and BRP, further developrnent of these important
institutional reforms will require additional major efforts over a period of years. The proposed project
will contribute substantially to further institutional reform in the sector by providing expanded
opportunities for private contracting and consulting firms to bid on project works under Bank-financed
projects. As road administrators gain experience with ICB prccedures in these projects, they are also
beginning to use competitive bidding procedures for road works under other financing. Technical
assistance and training under the Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project will foster the
increased use of ICB for road works, thus expanding opportunities for private sector firms while
improving administrative efficiency of road administrations and achieving more efficient use of the
resources available.
(5) There is a need to increase the efficiency of the investments in road works required to reduce the
deterioration and eventually expand the Russian road network. Under the ongoing IiRNMP, the Russian
road sector was exposed for the fist time to the use of the Highway Development Model (HDM)
developed by the World Bank, where the options of repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction were
evaluated to determine the optimum strategy for improving the condition of each road section. Under
the BRP, a Bridge Economic Analysis (BEA) model was developed to evaluate the options of repair,
rehabilitation or reconstruction to determine the optimum strategy for improving the condition of
bridges. The proposed operation will be a key instrument to expand the use of modern economic
analysis tools in road planning, such as the HDM and BEA models.
b) How Sector Issues Will Be Addressed
To address issue (I) above, at negotiations agreement was reached on actions required to improve the road
financing system based on recommendations of the Road Financing Study, Phase II. The strategic choices
include alternative levels of taxes for various road user groups. Other strategic chioices are various possible
road user tax adjustments to permit gradual reduction of the enterprise tax which presently provides tax
revenue for road works. The taxes will correspond more closely to the actual costs imposed by the different
vehicle types, specially heavy trucks. The project will also be an instrument to continue our dialogue with
the Russian Federation on toll roads and public/private partnership in the financing of new facilities. A
landmark of such a collaboration was an Intemational Conference on Financing of Road Investment which
took place in Moscow on November 12 and 13, 1998.
Issue (2) above will be addressed by rehabilitation works of the project. In addition to completing the
rehabilitation of the 190-km section of the Moscow-Minsk road, the proposed project will address some of
the highest priority roads east of the Urals. The Siberia and the Far East region has a very thin road network,
the principal artery of which is a discontinuous east-west paved federal road to which are linked only a few
paved roads extending northward and southward. Segments of the rnain road are in poor condition indicating
a need for rehabilitation, and there is a need for bypasses around certain major cities. The principal strategic
choices relate to the selection of particular roads and bridges for rehabilitation in the extensive area east of
the Urals. These choices were made on the basis of economic feasibility studies and environmental
assessments focusing on a list of candidate roads and bridges selected by RFHAL. Poor condition of many
roads and bridges account for a large number of accidents. The incidence of accidents will be reduced on
roads and bridges to be rehabilitated under the project. The project will contribute to the achievement of
improved road safety through the reduction in black spots on roads and bridges based on design of
rehabilitation works incorporating a variety of safety features including appropriate signalization and road
marking as well as improved surface.



8
The institutional component of the project includes improvement to the capacities of RFHA and the road
administration of the participating regions to deal with such issues as environmental assessment of road and
bridges works and related socio-cultural assessments. The institutional component of the project will include
(i) the preparation of environmental and socio-cultural specifications for highway development; and (ii)
capacity building and training in EA, environmental monitoring/supervision, and coordination of social
development and land use planning as it pertains to highway development.
Issue (3) above will be addressed by the proposed project with strategies similar to those employed in the
two ongoing projects, i.e., assisting RFHA and the participating regions, in collaboration with DORINVEST,
in (i) planning the execution, scheduling and monitoring of road and bridge works: (ii) assisting in
procurement of works, services and goods; (iii) providing on-the-job training to managerial, office and field
personnel; (iv) providing guidance in selecting trainers, training materials and courses to be attended by staff
The two projects, HRMP and BRP, are largely concerned with European Russia and the intention is to apply
essentially the same strategies to Siberia and the Far East.
Issue (4) will be addressed by the slice and package organization of construction contracts so that smaller
firms can participate, as well as larger firms which can price bids based on economies of scale. It is
anticipated that there will be some packages of around US$15 million but that there may also be packages
(composed of slices between US$5 million and US$15 million) amounting to about US$50 million. The
earlier HRMP and BRP projects had packages ranging around US$10 million, a size for which the SBD for
Small Works was designed, and it has served satisfactorily. This SBD has been translated into Russian and is
the basis for the national standard contract used in federal road works financed with local funds. It is
proposed to continue the use of this SBD for the proposed project for contracts up to US$10 million
equivalent. Above this threshold, the SBD for Larger Works should be used, thus consolidating its initial use
inider BRP. Bridges of standard design which are located within a road link being rehabilitated will generally
be included in the contract for that road link. Bridges of non-standard design, or for which the estimated
construction cost exceeds $1 .0 million, will be contracted separately or combined with other bridges of non-
standard design.
Issue (5) will be addressed by providing assistance to RFHA and the participating regions to expand the use
of modern tools, such as the HDM and BEA models, to carry out economic analysis of road investments and
selection of priorities. Project conditionalities include subjecting to economic feasibility all road construction
and reconstruction works financed from federal and participating regions' budgets from December 31, 2000.



9
C: Project Description Summary
1.  Project ('omponent v(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annlex 3*for a detailed cost
hreakdowni):
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    %O of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing   Bank-
(US$M)                (US$)    financing
Federal Road and Bridge Prog.                    525.1        78.8     315.0       78.7
Road and bridges works          Civil works      478.2       ,'1.8    268. I      67.0
Bridges and road equipment       Equipment        2.0         0.3       2.0        0.5
Design. supervision, technical
assistance and training          Consultants      44.9        6.7      44.9        11.2
Regional Road and Bridge Prog.                    91.6       1.3.7     55.0        13.8
Road and bridges works          Civil works       83.3       :2.5      46.7        11.7
Bridges and road equipment       Equipment         1.0        0.1       1.0        0.3
Desigin. supervision, technical
assistance and training          Consultants       7.3        1.1       7.3         1.8
Unallocated*                                      50.0        7.5      30.0        7.5
Total     666.7       100.0    400.0       100.0
2.  Key Policy anld Instiutional Reforms Supported by the Project
A major reform will be the continuation of new procurement practices, introduced in European Russia for
road and bridge works under HRMP and BRP, and their extension to Siberia and the Far East. The new
procurement methods will involve the use of competitive bidding, standard bidding documents and reliance
on expanding private construction and consulting industries.
Another reform will strengthen the capacity of road administrations to undertake environmental and social
evaluations of the impact of road and bridge works.
Finally, a third area of reform will focus on improving the road financing system in Russia, including seeking
adequate cost recovery from the operation of heavy trucks.
3.  Benefiits and Target Pouplaftion
a)  Benefits
The principal benefits from the physical component of the project will be savings in vehicle operating costs,
enabling reductions in freight rates and passenger. Also, the project will preserve infrastructure assets,
improve traffic safety, enhance reliability of road transport and generate employment, while assuring that
road improvements take into account environmental factors.



10
b) Target Population
The beneficiaries will include users of the roads and bridges to be improved under the project and large
numbers of people indirectly affected by the expected reductions in vehicle operating costs, freight rates and
passenger fares. Millions of people residing in the project area will benefit from the project both directly and
indirectly.
4.  Insiztittional and Implemenltation Arrangemenits
The RFHA will be the agency responsible for overall project execution. The RFHA's project implementation
Unit (PIU), DORINVEST, which has functioned well under the HRMP and BRP, will implement the federal
component and assist the PIU's of the selected regions.
Within their respective jurisdictions. RFHA and the participating regions will select the consultants
responsible for the design of works, preparation of bid documents, review of contractor qualifications,
evaluation of bids and supervision of works. An organizational chart for project management is given below.
Project Management Arrangements
Policy and Technical
RFH                 I           Coordination
Technical and Financial
Decisions
Federal Program                                     R         P
DORIN VEST (PIU)           Advice on Contracting   Regional PIU
- contract processing      Procedures            - contract processing
- supervision                                    - supervision
- contracts issued by RFHA   Ove   Gudan           contracts issued by Region
and Monitoring        -cnrcsise  yRgo
Federal Road Directorates (FRD)
- contract management
- contract supervision
As the implementation agency for the federal component, DORINVEST will be responsible for the overall
financial management of this component.  RFHA/DORINVEST will delegate to the Federal Road
Directorates (FRD) the management of project financed civil works contracts and supervision consultancy
contracts being implemented in areas under their jurisdiction. Successful delegation will depend on
DORINVEST's effective transfer to the FRDs of project management knowledge. This will be accomplished
by specific training provided by DORINVEST to the FRDs, as well as by periodic visits to the FRDs by
DORINVEST project managers and others.
The regions selected by the Government to participate in the project are Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk (see
Map). The regional components will be implemented directly by two PIUs to be established in the respective



11
Road Administrations of the participating regions. The Bank mission visited each of these regions in
September/October 1996 and had preliminary discussions with the regional administrations and their road
administrators concerning the general approach to the execution of a regional component of the project.
Further discussions with representatives of Khabarovsk and Krasnoyarsk regions were held in June and
September 1997 and during loan negotiations.
Following the pattern established under the BRP, the regional component of HRMP-II will be implemented
by the regions under subsidiary loan agreements between the Ministry of Finance, RFHA, and each of the
regions. Each region will be responsible for selecting consultants, ensuring appropriate design standards,
undertaking international competitive bidding of works and carrying out general implementation activities.
The regional PIUs will review consultants' design and bid documents, issue the invitation to bids, receive the
bids and evaluate the results. Within the regions, the contracts will be signed by the regional authorities, and
payments will be made by the regional PIUs. At negotiations, agreement was reached that within one month
( 4 the date of signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements of the Participating Regions, the Borrower will
cause each participating region to establish and maintain a Project Imiplementation UJnit in its respective road
administration, with adequate staff, funding, and facilities.
Project Coordination
RFHA, through DORINVEST, will coordinate all project activities by the FRDs and provide guidance to the
regions. DORINVEST has performed similar functions successfully in the implementation of the BRP which
involves three regions and the city of Moscow. RFHA has agreed to strengthen DORINVEST to handle the
expanded functions represented by the proposed project to enable it to perform its implementation and
coordination functions.
DORINVEST will monitor activities of the regional PIUs and re!gional communications with the Bank.
DORINVEST will provide assistance to the regional PIUs as reques1:ed. Dorinvest will make available to the
regions the documentation and procedures it has developed including sample letters of invitation, sample
bidding documents, sample bidding evaluation report and similar materials. Also, DORINVEST is expected
to respond informally to queries from the regional PlUs concerning implementation problems.
Project Oversight (policy guidance, etc.)
During each of the first two years of project implementation, three Bank supervision missions will be
required, followed by two such missions during each of the ensuing years. Each mission of about two/three
weeks duration will normally be staffed by a transport engineer, a bridge specialist, a construction expert, a
procurement expert, and another specialist, such as, an economist arid/or institutional analyst, environmental
specialist, training expert, transport industry specialist, traffic specialist or safety specialist. The mission
reviews will be guided by agreed targets. Supervision of the project between missions will be assisted by the
transport infrastructure specialist in the Bank's Resident Mission. One of the Bank supervision missions will
be carried out in the last quarter of each implementation year to assess progress during the year and review
the work program and budgetary allocations for the following year. A midterm review to assess progress
towards achieving the development objectives of the project and consider warranted adjustments, will be
carried out by December 3 1, 2001.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
In order to help the Borrower overcome cash flow problems, as well as to speed the necessary project
disbursements, RFHA and each of the participating regional road administrations will establish, within three



12
months of loan effectiveness, and maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special
Account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The RFHA and each of the regional PIUs will maintain separate
Special Accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the Loan resources and
expenditures for each project activity. Each implementing agency should guarantee that highly qualified staff
will be available to keep the proper accounting procedures of the Special Accounts. The Borrower will be
requested to disclose a summary of Special Account activities in the annual audited financial statements. The
financial management systems for a Special Account should provide for proper accounting of receipts,
payments, and submission of disbursement documentation to the Bank for the replenishment of the account.
The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related accounts will be
maintained in accordance with the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and the World Bank Financial
Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook, January 1995. Annual financial statements of Bank-financed
federal component will be prepared by RFHA and by the regional PIUs for their components and audited in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) by qualified independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Audits will also be carried out, in accordance with Bank Guidelines, for SOE against which loan
disbursements have been made. At negotiations, agreement was reached that RFHA and the participating
regions will maintain satisfactory accounts for the project and comply with the Bank's auditing requirements.
The Bank Loan will finance the costs of the annual audits of the project accounts.
DORINVEST has established an efficient and effective financial management system under the HRMP and
the BRP projects. This system will also be employed by the RFHA for the proposed project. DORlNVEST
will also make available its management system to the participating regions' PIU's. During project
implementation, supervision missions, assisted by the Resident Mission staff, will review the financial
management of the regional PlUs.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by RFHA and the participating
regions and will be sent to the Bank within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will
include: (i) progress achieved against agreed implementation and disbursement schedules, and key
performance indicators, including number of contracts awarded, and kilometers of roads and number of
bridges under contract or completed, and (ii) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and
for the total project. The main purpose of the reports will be to provide managers timely and updated
information on implementation of project components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending
actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous recommendations. At negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government and the participating regions that they will (i) prepare quarterly progress and
financial management reports to be sent to the Bank within one month after the end of each quarter and (ii)
prepare an implementation completion report in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Retroactive Financing
RFHA and the participating regions are selecting consultants to design rehabilitation works to be carried out
in the 1999 construction season. In the event the loan is not effective in time to pay for the advance payments
and early progress payments, these payments would be made from the Road Funds and the portion to be
financed by the loan proceeds would be retroactively recovered. The selection of consultants and the 1CB
for the 1999 works would follow normal Bank procedures. The amount of retroactive financing for which
authorization is sought would not exceed US$10 million, and would refer to expenditures incurred after
June 30, 1998.



13
D: Project Rationale
1.  Project Alterniatines Cons(isidered ad Reasrsons for RejectioI
Within the scope of the HRMP-I1, there were many sub-project alternatives evaluated during the feasibility
study. The RFHA proposed a long list of road and bridge works on Siberia and Far East federal roads and
these alternatives have been evaluated in the consultants' feasibility study. Recognizing the importance of
rehabilitation of the Moscow-Minsk road, which is a vital link to the European road network, the RFHA
included the 190-km section of the road in the Project and carriecd out a separate feasibilit, study. Both
studies make recommendations based on technical and economic analysis of alternatives. The studies include
evaluation of alternative road and bridge works on federal and regional roads, including: (i) rehabilitation,
defined as the repair of existing pavement; (ii) reconstruction which includes widened roads; (iii) routine
maintenance; and (iv) new construction. Bridges are analyzed for repair only and repair with widening.
The factors considered in making selections of regions to participate in the project were the degree of
interest shown by particular regions in reforming their highway sector, the relative need of road works on
regional roads, financial ability to bear local costs. A new road construction project, the so-called "bump"
road in Siberia was rejected for HRMP-II on the basis that new construction is currently a lower economic
priority than rehabilitation of existing roads.
2.  Major Related  Projecl.s F-inainced by the Banlk acid or Other Development Agencies (completed,
ontgoinig ind pIclnned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
__________________________ ___(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-finaniced
Road rehabilitationi needs         HRMP (ongoing)               S              S
Bridge rehabilitation needs        BRP (ongoing)                S              S
Urban trainsport needs             UTP (ongoing)                S              S
Moscow urban transport needs       MUTP (planned)
Other development agencies
EBRD - Railways improvement needs   Russian Railwvavs
Project (ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsat:isfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



14
3.  Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Projecf IDesign
Lessons learned from HRMP and BRP include: (i) identifying a committed counterpart team with sufficient
authority to move the project forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties at the technical and
central administrative levels on critical or controversial project issues; (iii) paying early detailed attention to
procurement and othe, implementation issues, particularly in view of short construction season in Russia; (iv)
involving local consultants and institutes in the project planning and implementation process; (v) carrying out
a pilot program of road works in the first year of project implementation; and (vi) anticipating long delays inl
the Russian Government satisfying requirements for loan effectiveness.
4.  Indications of Borrower- Commitment cntld Ownership
The Government itself took the initiative in defining the project and in requesting Bank assistance. It
evaluated alternative transport sector projects, as noted in section 8 above, and decided that the HRMP-II
had the highest priority. The RFHA has been active in preparation of the project including participation in the
identification mission of September/October 1996 involving extensive travel across Siberia and the Far East
to observe priority roads and bridges and to make contacts with various regional officials. The Adviser to the
First Deputy Prime Minister participated in the identification mission. During identification, the Bank was
informed by RFHA, as well as MOE, MOF and the Project Finance Center, of the high priority given by the
Government to the proposed project, and they expressed the desire that the preparation of the project be
expedited. In addition, the RFHA prepared a list of candidate road and bridge works and sent out invitations
for consultants to prepare proposals to carry out the feasibility study. Proposals were received and evaluated.
The consultants selected for the study began their work in March 1997. During the June 1997 pre-appraisal
mission, RFHA/DORINVES f and the Irkutsk Regional Road Administration organized a project preparation
seminar in Irkutsk with over 100 participants, including federal and regional officials, as well as consultants
and contractors. During the September/October 1997 first stage appraisal mission, RFHA/DORINVEST
arranged extensive meetings in Krasnoyarsk between RFHA, the three participating regions and the Bank
mission for wide-ranging discussions about the HRMIP-11. During the Project preparation, RFHA requested
that the initial allocation of a US$300 million for the HRMP-II loan should be increased to US$500 million
and even to US$1 billion in order to have a more substantial impact on the Russian road network. RFHA
constantly expressed its concern about serious deterioration of the Moscow-Minsk road, which links the
central regions of Russia with a large part of Europe, and requested loan funds for completing rehabilitation
of this road. Following this request, Bank agreed to include the Moscow-Minsk road in the project and to
increase the amount of the loan to $400 million.
The Government has taken steps to reform the road financing sector and has incorporated the
recommendations of the Road Financing Study carried out under the project in a draft Tax Code, which has
been submitted to the Duma. MOF and RFHA wrote to the Bank confirming government position on the
road financing issues. The Government proposals included in the draft Tax Code envisage:
a) substitution of the fuel and lubricants sales taxes with an increase in the existing gasoline excise tax and
introduction of diesel and lubricants excise taxes,
b) oradual abolishment of the regional enterprise tax by the year 2001,
c) considerable increase in vehicle taxes, and substitution of their horse-power base with cubic-cm base,
which is considered to be more effective.
The Government proposals would result in an increase in excise fuel taxes and taxes for heavy trucks.



15
S.  Value Added of Bank Support int this Project
Since the Government does not have sufficient financial resources to undertake road and bridge works that
are urgently needed, the Bank can do much to arrest the serious deterioration of highway infrastructure in
Russia. Even more important, the Bank will expand the reforms initiated in highway administration under
ongoing projects and promote further development of private sector contracting and consulting industries.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.  EcoonomiC Anleysi.s (.u lp)orled by Annsrex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$959.2 million, ERR= 26.7%
Civil Works Component
During project preparation, a core network of federal and selected regional roads in two regions was
identified for priority attention under the highway rehabilitation component. Thiese priority roads were
classitied by function, traffic flow and road condition. Indicative civil works treatments to improve the road
condition were specified for each road segment candidate. These cases were then subject to economic
analysis, using the highway design and maintenance model (HDM). The model assessed the benefits and
costs related to the specific treatments and an optimum roads rehabilitation program was determined which
maximized the net benefits within budget constraints. The principal type of benefit from these works will be
savings in vehicle operating costs. The results of the economic analysis give acceptable economic rates of
return (ERR) for the road works included in the project. An acceptable ERR was one that exceeded 12%.
A selection of bridges on federal roads and regional roads in two regions was identified for priority attention
under the bridge rehabilitation component. These bridges were subject to technical evaluation and indicative
civil works treatments were specified for each bridge candidate. These cases were then subject to economic
analysis using a Bridge Design and Maintenance Model (BDM). The model assessed the benefits and costs
related to these specific treatments and an optimum bridge rehabillitation program was determined which
maximized the net benefits within budget constraints. The principal t:ype of benefit from these works will be
savings in vehicle operating costs. The results of the economic analysis give acceptable ERRs for the bridge
works included in the project.
Other Components
The benefits of supervision consultancies will be achieved through improved quality and timely completion of
works, and these benefits are included in the works evaluation above. Other institutional development
components, particularly technical assistance and training, are necessary to ensure smooth implementation of
project works and sustainable future maintenance. In addition, institutional strengthening will lead to
improved efficiency in road administration, through more effective road planning, budgeting and management
all of which should be beneficial to road users in terms of reduced transport costs. The overall project
economic rate of return is expected to be about 26.7%



16
2.  Financial Summary (see Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact
The project will generate an overall counterpart funding requirement for the Russian Federation of about
US$266.7 million over an estimated six years implementation period. The overall impact on Federation
finances should be limited since the US$59 million maximum annual counterpart funding requirements
represent only about 3% of the US$ 1,970 million the Federation currently spends on capital and recurrent
works for the entire federal road sector. The size of the federal component of the project was determined in
part by the Federation's fiscal capacity, and the Bank's assessment is that the project is affordable in the
context of the overall Federal budget.
While the project represents a small percentage of overall road expenditures, its impact on the road system of
that large area will be substantial because project resources will be concentrated on improving the condition
of roads and bridges on the main federal roads which account for a high proportion of traffic. This emphasis
is consistent with the Government's strategy for road works.
For the two participating regions, the project will generate a counterpart finding requirement of about
US$13.3 million for Krasnoyarsk Krai and US$23.3 million for Khabarovsk Krai over the estimated six year
implementation period. The fiscal impact on the finances of these three regions should be limited since the
maximum annual counterpan: funding requirements represents only about 2.25% (Krasnoyarsk Krai) and
7.23% (Khabarovsk Krai) of ithe amount each region currently spends on capital and recurrent works for the
road network in the region.
3.  Techniical Evaluationi
The road and bridge rehabilitation works in the project do not require complex design or construction
methods but will introduce substantially higher standards of project design, implementation and quality
control. In Russia, quality problems have been encountered in road and bridge works with regard to surveys,
pavement design, detailed engineering, contractor capability, workmanship and strict adherence to technical
specifications. A major emphasis in the project is therefore to continue introducing "best practice" to the
road sector in Russia and extend it to Siberia and the Far East. Bid packages will be sized and
prequalification criteria prescribed so as to provide packages of interest to well-qualified contractors.
Construction supervision will be the responsibility of internationally experienced consultants.
To ensure long-term sustainability of improvements in the technical quality of road works, the institutional
reform agenda includes the introduction of sound business practices particularly quality management and
modern financial and cost accounting systems.
4.  Institutional Assessment
a) Executtinig Agenicies: RF'HA and regional road administrations of Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk krais.
The Federal Highway Department (FHD) was established by Government resolution No. 93 of 1992 to
manage the federal highway network, with responsibility for administration of all federal roads and
development of the legal framework for the roads subsector, road standards, technical policies, and
preparation and implementation of government policy for development of the road network. FHD was
superseded by the Russian Federal Highway Administration (RFHA), which was established by Presidential
Decree No. 403 of April 23, 1997. RFHA has a staff of about 160 in its headquarters, and a total of about



17
2,000 including the Federal Road Directorates (FRDs). The effectiveness and efficiency of road
administration by RFHA has improved significantly during implementation of ongoing highway projects.
Nevertheless, there is need for further improvement which is expected under the Second Highway
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. The Government Resolution No. 1310, dated December 1, 1994,
created 15 FRDs. In 1995, four additional FRDs were established, three for implementing large projects (one
in Siberia and two in the West of Urals) and one (DORINVEST) to implement World Bank financed
projects.
Initially, DORINVEST operated as a separate organization reporting directly to the RFHA First Deputy
Head. On September 25, 1998, in accordance with RFHA Order N 316 on improvement of the road sector
marxigement, including management of IBRD road projects, the unit was included into RFHA organizational
structure as the Toll Roads Directorate DORINVEST. The project management unit in DORINVEST is
called the Center for Implementation of IBRD Loans. It is expected that such an arrangement will facilitate
institutional strengthening of the RFHA departments as a result of better coordination and closer interactions
of the PIU with other RFHA departments.
The administrative (or government) functions of the FRDs are separated from the actual execution of works.
The government function is performed by FRDs which contract for road works with other organizations such
as private companies. These Directorates carry out their activity under the direction of the RFHA. They are
legal entities, having separate balance sheets, and are non-commercial institutions whose activities are to be
financed through the appropriate li ie items of the budget of the Federal Road Fund.
The main functions of the FRDs are to: (i) maintain and improve the transportation and operational condition
of highways; (ii) carry out inspections and surveys of road facilities in conformity with the established
standards, and take measures to correct the identified defects on a timely basis; (iii) develop and implement
activities to improve the safety of road traffic, environmental safety of highways; (iv) account for and analyze
road accidents on assigned roads; (v) plan the rehabilitation and maintenance of road works on the basis of
approved investment priorities, prepare and submit for consideration in accordance with the established
procedure itemized lists of design and road construction works; (vi) engage, on a competitive basis,
eniterprises to perform design, road construction and repair works and other services required for the
fulfillment of the assignments and to enter into contracts for the performance of such works; and (vii)
conduct laboratory tests of the quality of the road construction materials and structures and to issue
instructions to suspend work and correct the defects.
Because of the relatively small RFHA staff, a substantial number of t'he functions regarding federal roads are
transferred to Regional Road Administrations (RRAs), through "rnanagerial contracts." RFHA transfers
agreed amounts of Federal Road Fund money for implementation of road works, purchase of necessary
equipment for road maintenance works and payment for implementation of managerial functions.
In each participating region, the established RRA is a state agency subordinate to, and reporting to, the
related regional administration. Each one of the participating regions has agreed to establish a Project
Implementation Unit, under its RRA, to manage the implementation of the respective regional component of
the proposed project.
Since the ongoing BRP includes participation of three regions in European Russia and Moscow City, the
Federal Government and the Bank have gained experience with the execution of regional project
components. Following the pattern established under the BRP, the regional component of HRMP-I1 will be
implemented by the regions under subsidiary loan agreements between the Ministry of Finance and each of
the regions.



18
b) Project Managementt: DORINVEST (PIU) for federal level and PIUs for participating regions
DORINVEST was organized within RFHA to implement the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project. Subsequently, its scope of responsibility was expanded to include implementation of the Bridge
Rehabilitation Project. DORINVEST has demonstrated over a period of years its capability to implement
projects similar to the proposed project. Moreover, RFHA and DORINVEST have been actively involved in
the preparation of the proposed project.
RFHA, through DORINVEST, will coordinate all project activities at the federal level and provide guidance
at the regional level. DORINVEST has performed similar functions successfully in the implementation of the
BRP and assisted the three regions and the city of Moscow. RFHA has agreed to strengthen DORINVEST,
which will allow DORINVEST to handle the expanded functions represented by the proposed project to
enable it to perform its implementation and coordination responsibilities.
.5.  Yocial Asvevssmeni
Major Social Issues
The project is designed to improve road transport efficiency and road safety on major portions of federal and
regional highway networks, with direct benefits for transport operators, service providers, industries general
users, as well as the overall Russian economy. Project preparations have taken explicit account of possible
adverse human and environmental impacts, with a view to mitigation and/or minimization of identified
impacts to the extent this is possible. This has been also officially confirmed by the Russian authorities.
Participation and Consultation
Preparation of the project has included consultation with stakeholders at different levels, particularly with
people potentially affected by the project in Siberia and the Far East. At the regional (i.e., local) level,
consultations, in the form of one on one meetings and group discussions, have taken place with government
agencies responsible for protecting the environment and for protecting archaeological and historical features,
local municipal government officials; and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) such as the Socio-
Ecological Union. Copies of the draft feasibility report for the project have been sent to regional libraries.
Newspaper and radio features have been used to inform the public about the project and to advise the public
that they may view the draft feasibility report in the main regional libraries, and provide comments by mail or
directly by telephone.
Resettlement
Comprehensive screening and local consultation has been carried out during project preparation using the
Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement as a guide to determining whether
resettlement may be required. Since most of the project will be undertaken through areas of relatively low
population density, and since it will involve rehabilitation of existing road segments and bridges, thereby
allowing the works to stay within the existing road right-of-way (ROW), it has been determined that no land
acquisition is required for the project.
As part of project preparation, and in accordance with terms of reference cleared by the Bank, an
environmental assessment (including social assessment) of the federal and regional road components of the
rehabilitation project has been prepared. In Siberia, this work was carried out by a local Siberian highway



19
consulting agency (IRKUTSKGIPRODORNII) working with an internationally recognized environmental
consulting group (Kampsax International), who together worked under the coordination of DORINVEST,
the Russian Federal Highway Authority's (RFHA) project implementation unit (PIU). For the section of the
Moscow-Minsk road the assessment was carried out by the Russian Federal Highway Administration. Using
existing ROW records of the federal and regional road administrations, and information obtained from social
and environmental appraisal of road segments proposed for rehabilitation, the consultants have confirmed
that the project as proposed will not require any involuntary resettlement.
Vulnerable Groups
As part of the project preparation studies, separate studies have been undertaken to assess whether the part
of tl.e project to be carried out in Siberia and the Far East will have an impact on indigenous peoples, which
would require an Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan, in accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive 4.20. The studies, conducted in accordance with terms of reference cleared by the Bank, focused
on areas identified by the Russian Ministry of Nationalities as having an aboriginal presence. For the federal
road component a study of Tyumen to Tobolsk to Khanty-Mansiysk area was completed. For the regional
road component a study of the Khabarovsk to De Kastri to Nikolaevsk na-Amure area was conducted. In
both studies it was determined that while aboriginal communities located near certain road segments will
benefit from improved access to larger cities and towns, with their more developed educational, health and
social facilities, these same groups may suffer negative effects of improved road development, including:
increased poaching of local wildlife and fish resources by outsiders; violation of local hunting/fishing
territories; destruction of ritual areas and spiritual centers; increased vulnerability to liquor, drugs, and
unregulated commercial activities. Based on the information gathered in these socio-cultural studies it was
determined by the consultants that rehabilitation of the Tobolsk--Khanty-Mansiysk federal road segment and
the De Kastri--Nikolaevsk-na-Amure regional road segment could have potentially significant negative
effects on local indigenous populations living in these areas. Therefore, these road segments were not
included in the present project. At negotiations, it was agreed thai: (a) there is no need to carry out an
Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan for the De-Kastri-Nikolaevsk-na-Amure road segment since the
probability of the road being rehabilitated is very low, and (b) irrespective of this project, an Indigenous
Peoples' Development Plan should be prepared for the Tobolsk-Khanty-Mansiysk road if the Borrower
decides to carry out road works on the Tyumen-Tobolsk road segment.
Monitoring and Supervision
Monitoring social impacts of the project during implementation will be based on two kinds of indicators: (i)
input/output indicators which would be monitored and reported or intemally; and (ii) impact indicators,
which would be monitored by an independent agency twice during the project period (as part of a mid-term
evaluation, and as a final evaluation following completion). This independent agency may involve a peer
review panel comprised of representatives of government and NGO groups such as the Ministry of
Nationalities, Socio-Ecological Union, etc. Regular supervision and follow-up by Bank specialists are
planned.
6.  Enivironiniental Assessment: Environmental Category  []A   [x] B   []C
As part of the project feasibility study for project preparation, environmental assessments of the federal
project component in Siberia and Moscow-Minsk road, and separate environmental assessments for the two
regional project components (Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk Krais) were carried out as per the Bank's
Operational Directive 4.01 and the requirements of the Russian Federation (see Environmental Assessment
Reports in Project Files). The environmental assessments were carried out by the Federal Highway



20
Administration for the Moscow-Minsk road and a joint Russian-International team of consultants
(IRKUTSKGIPRODORNI1 and Kampsax International) for the Siberian part of the project. According to
the reports, since works are restricted to the existing right-of-way, the direct impact of the federal-regional
road rehabilitation project will be restricted to the right-of-way. No land acquisition is anticipated. The
improvement in road services will allow development and improved access to the Project areas. The project
will also reduce road congestion around some of the major cities, this helping to improve air quality in
residential areas.
The EA reports state that the proposed project works will not cause significant environmental degradation,
since the works will largely occur on road sites that are generally already highly modified, free of
environmentally sensitive areas and with clear right-of-way. Some trees will need to be removed along the
road margins, but will be compensated by a generous replanting program. The project will use best affordable
management construction practices to control and/or limit damage to the environment.
The EA reports identify a number of locations where major bridge rehabilitation works will be undertaken.
These are sites at which special fish habitat mitigation and compensation measures have been recommended
as per the requirements of the Russian Federation. For the Moscow-Minsk road, which is located in a densely
populated area, the EA recommends a number of measures, suL;h as construction of 9 km noise protection
screens and 120 km of forest protection on the Moscow-Minsk road, which will be incorporated into the
design, construction and operation of the project to avoid or minimize adverse effects of the project.
While only minimal impacts on land use are expected, potential environmental impacts include: (i) air and
noise pollution during construction and during operation in urban areas; (ii) dust and smoke from material
transport, crushers and asphalt plants during construction; (iii) pollution from accidental spills of oil, fuel,
lubricants, etc.; and (iv) operation of borrow areas, quari ies and construction camps.
During the construction phase, key recommendations which will be included in the construction
specifications include: restoration of borrow pits; re-vegetation of erodible slopes and installation of sediment
control works; proper siting of camps, construction work yards, and materials storage areas; safe disposal of
solid and liquid wastes; control of dust especially near settlements; prevention of accidents through safe
temporary traffic diversions; proper selection, maintenance and operation of equipment to ensure compliance
with air, noise and discharge requirements. The project will be implemented by contractors selected through
competitive bidding processes, environmental specifications will be enforced and closely supervised by
consultants with local RFHA staff.
Rehabilitation and maintenance works would be carried out in accordance with national standards, which are
generally consistent with western standards, e.g. AASHTO. The Bank will seek assurance that development
of new quarries or significant expansion of existing quarries and the operation of asphalt mixing plants
would be carried out in accordance with national environmental standards which have been reviewed and are
acceptable to the Bank. Recommendations of the environmental mitigation plan will be incorporated in the
standard tender and supervision documents for civil works contracts, covering drainage and erosion, borrow
pits, and waste material management.
With respect to operational aspects, an institutional goal is to strengthen the environmental capacity of the
RFHA to provide a focus for environmental concerns and training. In the short-term, this would involve an
assessment of the RFHA's capacity to take into account environmental and social factors for highway
development; and undertake capacity building and training in EA, environmental monitoring/supervision, and
coordination of social development and land use planning. Based on an assessment of the RFHA's
environmental institutional capacity, institutional strengthening will be carried out over the long-term.



21
Training in environmental management in the highway sector will be conducted during project
implementation.  This will be a valuable contribution to ensuring environmental planning of road
rehabilitation or construction under future projects.
Environmental Management Plans were prepared by DORINVEST and cleared by Goskompriroda for the
federal and regional road components of the project.  The plans include measures for mitigating and
compensating environmental impacts during construction. They also include requirements for monitoring,
and institutional strengthening. These plans, in general, adequately address the environmental mitigation and
compensation requirements.
Overall, the project is expected to generate environmental benefits by reducing dust, noise and air pollution,
increasing vehicle life and decreasing per vehicle fuel waste by improving vehicle performance, increasing
productivity/supply of services and improving road safety. Indirectly, it will enhance the overall development
of the region, without generating a "mad rush" to access new resource areas, as might be expected in the
case of construction of new highways into previously inaccessible areas. The benefits will be enhanced by
incorporation of appropriate mitigation measures and enhancement actions such as tree planting,
development of improved erosion/sedimentation control measures. Over the long term, the environmental
capacity of road design, construction and implementation agencies will be strengthened to provide a focus for
environmental concerns, and their ability to work with environmental agencies which oversee highway
development projects will be improved.
Mitigation Plan
It has been agreed that the following measures will be taken during project implementation:
1. Minimization of consrcstijon imnalcts - the following practices will be used wherever possible and
practical to minimize the impacts of road construction:
a)  ('leaing mdg, rtbbin,sg - shall not be carried out in such a way as ltO damage fish bearing streams. Where
it is necessary to clear and grub lands up to the edge of a watercourse, work shall be carried out in such a
manner as to prevent debris and soils from entering the watercourse. In some cases this may require hand
felling of trees away from the watercourse, followed by ground preparation that includes some form of
erosion control.
b) Minimizing extent of expcosed soils - wherever possible, the extent of ground exposed for road
construction shall be the minimal amount needed to proceed with the work.
c)  A voidance o?f environmentally sensitive areas - the contractor's environmental specialist shall, in
advance of any construction disturbance, identify areas containing potential rare or endangered flora or
fauna, archaeological relics, or other sensitive environmental features, such as streams and wetlands, and
develop possible avoidance or mitigation measures.
d) Protection qf,fish-bearing watercourses - no instream construction work shall be permitted within the
wetted perimeter of fish bearing water courses during the fish spawning season. Instream construction
work shall be permitted at other times of the year, subject to the approval of the appropriate Russian
environmental agency.
e)  Movement of equipmetnt through a watercourse - if it is necessary to walk construction equipment
(trucks, graders, bulldozers, excavators, scrapers, etc.) through a watercourse, the equipment will first



22
be cleaned to remove oil, grease and other hydrocarbons, as well as any accumulated mud. The practice
of walking equipment through a watercourse shall only be permitted with the approval of a Russian
environmental agency representative.
f)  Fuiel storage - All fuels will be stored in approved tank systems, which will have hoses complete with
automatic shutoff controls. Fuel containers exceeding 25 L capacity shall be stored within bermed-off
areas capable of containing I 10% of the total volume of fuel stored. Fuel spill containment and cleanup
kits, as well as fire fighting devices shall be kept on site and in good condition, and staff shall be trained
in their effective use.
g)  I)isposal of con1s5trulcltion wastes - all waste materials generated as a result of the construction program,
such as stumps and other vegetation debris from clearing and grubbing, waste asphalt and/or concrete,
empty fuel and lubricant containers, expended air and oil filters, etc., shall be disposed of in a manner
approved by the appropriate Russian environmental agency Wherever possible, waste asphalt and
concrete shall be reused or recycled.
h)  Erosion antid sedimentaltiont control measures - temporary erosion control devices shall be employed to
prevent loss of soils and fines into fish bearing watercourses. Such measures include tarping of soil
stockpiles and exposed erodable slopes, seeding or sodding slopes, ditch checks, and sedimentation
ponds.
i)  Concrete poulrs - concrete pours shall be closely controlled and monitored near fish bearing
watercourses. Measures shall include such steps as ensuring cofferdams and concrete forms are properly
sealed to prevent escape of concrete leachate. Waste concrete shall be disposed of at an approved
location away from any stream course. An environmentally suitable location shall be identified away
from any stream course where concrete trucks may be cleaned of residual concrete and the wash water
disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
j)  (Concrete canid asphal1 batch plants - shall be located away from fish bearing watercourses and operated
in accordance with government issued passports.
k)  I)ust conitrol - during construction in areas adjacent to residential dwellings, where dustfall may affect
local residences, road surfaces shall be periodically watered down as a means of controlling dust.
I)  Maintenance Canid storage yards - shall be located away from environmentally sensitive areas, including
away from watercourses. Equipment maintenance shall be carried out in such a manner as to prevent
spills of fuels, lubricants, solvents, etc. onto the ground or into waterways. Waste oils, etc., shall be
disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner.
m) Construction work carried ouit in close proximity to residential dwellinigs - in an effort to minimize
noise disturbance to residents, work shall be undertaken during normal working hours as defined by
Russian law. Where it is necessary to work outside normal working hours, to meet tight construction
schedules, the contractor shall seek the support of the local community for a variance.
n)  Other noise control measuires - equipment shall be operated with proper noise muffler systems in place.
2.  Restoration qf disturbed areas - including tree planting shall be carried out as soon as possible, and
before abandoning the site (including before temporary shutdowns such as for winter), all disturbed ground
must be stabilized and revegetated so as to prevent potential soil loss or sedimentation of water courses as a



23
result of surface erosion. Revegetation should follow prescribed norms for the plant species (trees, shrubs,
grasses/forbes) native to the region.
3.  Planting of tree buffer strips - where agriculture land borders the road, a buffer strip will be planted in
native evergreen trees, three lines deep with trees staggered from one line to the next. Such buffer strips will
function to reduce the dispersion of lead aerosols from vehicle emissions, and also as partial noise attenuation
barriers.
4.  Construction of noise walls andlor earth berms - in populated areas adjacent to roads, including areas
where datchas are concentrated, where traffic noise is expected to increase more than 5 dB above existing
background levels, it will be necessary to construct noise walls and/or earth berms between the highway and
the residences as noise attenuation devices.
5.  A budget of 1% of the total project budget shall be allocated for the above measures.
6.  A training program  shall be developed and implemented in environmental impact mitigation and
environmental construction supervision for supervising consultants and contractor personnel.
7.  An environmental specialist shall be employed by the supervising consultant in each region in which
road work is undertaken, who will act as the contractors representative to monitor and supervise
implementation of the mitigation plan.
8. Environmental .specialists (in.spectors.) shall be appointed by the environmental authority to monitor
compliance with Russian law. Given the vast size of the project area, one person shall be required for each
road segment or region, depending on the scope of the work within that region.
7.  Participatory Approach Ikey stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why niot applicable]:
Participatory/Approach       [dentification/Preparation   Implementation
Beneficiaries/Community      Consultation                 Consultation
Groups
Intermediary NGOs            Consultation                 Consultation
Academic Institutions        Consultation                 Consultation
Local Government             Collaboration                Collaboration
Other Donors                 Information Sharing          Information Sharing
Commercial Road User         Consultation                 Consultation
Groups
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability
The project will enhance the capacity of federal and regional highway agencies to plan, finance and
implement road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance and therefore ensure sustainability by: (i)
expanding resource mobilization through improvements in the road financing system; (ii) increasing the



24
efficiency of construction and maintenance through better design and supervision of road and bridge works,
and improvement of the road management system; (iii) involving local contractors for rehabilitation and
maintenance; and (iv) improved environmental management and social mitigation. Successfll project
implementation should lead to borrower appreciation of the benefits from improved roads and bridges as well
as institutional reform, which, in turn, should contribute to project sustainability.
2.  (ritical Risks (reflecting assunlpli)ons in the/fourh cohirnni of A nlnlex 1):
Risk                      Risk         Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Objective"
RFHA reconsiders its commitment and support for    M    Maintain dialogue witlh RFHA and
rehabilitation and maintenance program               appropriate Loan conditionalities
The turnover rate for trained staff in RFHA will not   M    Continued training of RFHA staff
be kept at a minimum level through 2002 (e.g. 10%
or less per year)
Economic and regulatory incentives do not allow  M    Conitinued support by Govermenlt of
the road construction and consulting industry to     market economy
continue to operate profitably
The Russian Federation does not continue its    M    Continued policy dialogue at the highest
transfonmation to a market-oriented economy          levels
including political. institutional and regulatory
refornms
Insufficient resources will not allow Govenmment to    S    Continued dialogue to keep in place a
protect investments in roads and bridges through     robust road financing scheme. and explore
maintenance and rehabilitation                       possible public-private partnerships
Annex 1. cell "from Components to Outputs"
Low priority by the Government to road works in  M    Formal agreement on project details at
Siberia                                              negotiations, and monitoring of payments
to contractors and consultants during
implementation
Insufficient local financing for the project (e.g.  M    Agreement with Govemment on road
revenue collection difficulties, discontinuance of   financing policy including adoptirn g higher
earmarking of resources through road funds}          user charges for heavy vehicles
RFHA and participating regions fail in their   M    Intensify monitoring of training
commitment to train staff in critical areas          component and propose necessary
corrective action
The two regional Road Administrations fail to  M    Monitoring by DOR1NVEST and
achieve quick development of administrative          supervision missions of improvements in
capacity                                             capacity of the participating regions
Costs exceed cost estimates                     M    Detailed Bank review of cost estimates
taking into consideration actual costs of



25
HRMP and BRP civil works.
Regions unwilling to commit resources         M    Continued dialogue and conditionialit!
Delay in signing subsidiary loan agreements   M    Timely follow-up with MOF. RFHA and
the participating regions
Lack of political commitment to implement     M    Agreement on conditionality at
environmental management and prepare indigenous     negotiations to implement appropriate
peoples development plans.                          plans for environmental mitigation
Environmental impact is expected to be
limited as the project will include only
repair. rehabilitation and reconstruction
works. without any major realignu-ment.
Overall Risk Rating   M M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.  Possible ('ontroversial Aspects
The Bank has advised that improvements should be made in the road finanbing system, particularly by
increasing the taxes paid by operators of heavy vehicles toward financing the cost of roads. The Russian
Federation has agreed that heavy trucks should pay higher road user taxes and RFHA has presented specific
recommendations on the appropriate levels of user taxes. The Bank will periodically assess specific changes
in these taxes and make recommendations as appropriate. A concern of the Russians is that substantial
increases in road user taxes may represent a major hardship given present economic condition in Russia. The
degree of potential controversy is rated moderate.
G: Main Conditions
1.  Board Conditions
a)  Clearance of the environmental review by the State Committee on Elnvironment (Goskompriroda).
b)  Agreement between MOF and the participating regions on the final version of the SLAs.
2.  Effectiveneess Conditions
a)  RFHA will open a Project Account with an initial deposit in local currency of at least US$500,000
equivalent.
3.  Other
a)  The Borrower agreed to onlend US$55 million to the participating regions through Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, at an interest rate 150-250 basis points above the primary Bank loan interest rate, a



26
repayment period of 15 years and a grace period of 5 years. The Government will submit a draft
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank.
b)  Disbursements for expenditures incurred by any region participating in the project are conditional upOI
effectiveness of the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
c)  The Borrower agreed that within twelve months of the effectiveness of the loan, it will increase and,
until completion of the project, will maintain the Project Account with a minimum balance, through
quarterly replenishments, equivalent to one million dollars (US$ 1,000,000) or such other amount as may
be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time.
d)  As a condition of effectiveness of the relevant Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Borrower will cause each Participating Region to open a Project Account with an initial deposit in local
currency of at least US$100,000 equivalent and, until completion of the Project, will maintain the said
account with a minimum balance, through quarterly replenishments, equivalent to at least $300,000 or
such other amount as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time
e)  RFHA will maintain the Project Implementation Unit (DORINVEST) established under the Highway
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan No. 3706 RU) as the Unit responsible for implementin,
the federal component of the project.
f)  Under the respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Borrower will cause each
Participating Region to establish and maintain a Participating Region Project Implementation Unit in its
respective road administration, with adequate staff, funding, and facilities.
g)  Any changes to the list of roads and bridges selected for the inclusion in the Project will be subject to
the Bank's approval, and such roads and bridges will be selected in accordance with the criteria agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Bank, upon completion by the Borrower of the economic
assessment and environmental and resettlement screening for the proposed roads and bridges in
accordance with the guidelines agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
h)  The commencement of any work on the Tyumen-Tobolsk road segment of the project will be subject
to the preparation of the Indigenous Peoples Mitigation plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the Tobolsk-
Khanty-Mansiysk road segment. This Plan will ensure that the design and implementation of any road
rehabilitation works on the Tobolsk-Khanty-Mansiysk road segment, which the Borrower might
undertake irrespective of this Project, will be carried out taking into account and adequately addressing
the needs and cultural preferences of the Indigenous Peoples.
i)  Any road rehabilitation works on the Tobolsk-Khanty-Mansiysk road segment will be undertaken in
accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plan.
j)  Each PIU will produce, within a month after the end of each quarter, a quarterly progress report on
implementation progress and proposed action plans for the project.
k)  After one year of the date of effectiveness of its respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, each participating region will carry out a review, in consultation with the Borrower and the
Bank, for evaluating the overall progress in the impleiaentation of the regional component of the Project
and adopting such measures as may be necessary to resolve any issues.



27
1)  During each year of the execution of the project, commencing in 1999, the Borrower will take all
necessary measures to make available funds for the purpose of maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation of
the federal road network in accordance with its priority road expenditure program.
m) By May 31 each year, RFHA will report on (i) the conditions ol the Borrower's federal road network;
(ii) the road maintenance, rehabilitation, reconstruction, and construction worlks completed during the
previous year, including the amount spent in each category; and (iii) the federal road works planned for
the current year.
n)  By December 31, 2000. all road construction, reconstruction, and rehabilitation for RFHA  and
participating regions will be subject to competitive bidding.
o)  By December 31, 2000, all road construction and reconstruction works financed from federal and
participating regions' budgets will be subject to economic feasibility.
p)  The Borrower shall undertake all measures to increase road taxes to be paid by heavy trucks so as to
ensure that they contribute a significant proportion of their attributable costs.
q)  By December 3 1, 2001, Borrower and the Bank will carry out a mid-term review of the Project.
r)  By June 30 each year commencing in 1999 and until completion of the Project. the Borrower will furnish
to the Bank an audit report of the Federal Road Fund's financial statements for' the preceding calendar
year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x3 The engineering design documents for the first year's activities were completed and ready for the start of
project implementation in June 1998.
[xl The procurement documents for the first year's activities were completed and ready for the start of
project implementation in June 1998.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower has been appraised and found to be realistic
and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Cesar Queiroz
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin  4W    IfJ       Vl14W
Country Director: Michael Carter  .



Annex I
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Design Sumnmary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Moniitoring and      Critical AssumptionIs
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                  (Goal to Bank
*  Develop viable       * Agreement on financing  Review CAS objectives    Mission)
financing mechanisms for  plan for Road Fund.    and project strategy with   Critical assumptions:
investments in           * Increase in cost      core ministries          *  Government
transportation.         recovery from direct                              continues commitment
beneficiaries.                                   and suppolt for the
*  Improve efficiency of  * Broader use of                                road financing plan,
planning and             competitive procurement                          and RFHA committed
implementation of       in infrastructure projects.                       to the rehabilitation
transportation projects                                                   and maintenance
program,
* Economic and
regulatory incentives
allow the road
construction and
consulting industry to
continue their
_ profitability after 2004
Project Development                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                                                Critical assumptions:
*  Improve the condition  *  Length of federal and   Quarterly Progress Report *  RFHA continues
of selected high priority   regional roads improved                       commitment and
roads and bridges on    from poor or fair         Review project objectives  support for
federal and regional (for   condition into good  with RFHA and regions    rehabilitation and
two or three participating   condition, Mid: 300 km,   and make mrid-term  maintenance program;
regions) road systems of   End: 930 km           adjustments as           .  Bank and RFHA
Russia east of the Urals    *  Number of federal and  appropriate based on  agree on work
regional bridges improved  quantitative targets for  definition after
from poor or fair       each stage of            feasibility study
condition into good     implementation           recommendations;
condition                                        *  Sufficient resources
Mid-term: 20                                 will allow to maintain
End: 68                                      past investments and
rehabilitation.
* RFHA and
*  Improvement of the    *  Increase of the      Quarterly Progress       participating regions



29
administrative efficiency    proportion of locally  Reports               continue commitment
of RFHA and the road    financed construction,                            to train staff in critical
administration of the   reconstruction and                                areas
participating regions   rehabilitation road and
bridge works awarded
through competitive
bidding:
(a) Federal
Baseline: 20%
December 31, 2000: 100%
(b) Participating regions
Baseline: 10%
December 31, 2000:100%
*  Development of       *  Percent of works      Quarterly Progress
private road constructing   contracts value included in Reports
and consulting industry    the project awarded to
Russian companies and
joint ventures.
Baseline: 60%
Mid-term: 70%
End: 80%
Assuming that the
*  Improve cost recovery  *  Increased contribution  Quarterly Progress   Road Financing Study
and efficiency in the use of of heavy trucks to  Reports                  recommendations are
resources employed in    financing highways, as a                         enacted into law
road works              % of the attributable cost:
Baseline: 10%
Mid-term: 60%
End: 100%
*  Percent of funds
allocated for new
construction and
reconstruction of federal
roads or regional roads in
the participating regions
following a cost benefit
analysis:
a) Federal
Baseline: 20%
Mid-term: 50%
End: 90%
b) Participating
regions
Baseline: 10%
Mid-term: 50%
End: 90%                                   Risks: moderate risks



30
Outputs:                                                                 (Outputs to Objective)
*  Road and bridge      *  Design studies and bid  Bank to mount         *  World market
works                   documents completed:    supervision missions at    conditions; prices
Roads: 500 km (mid-     appropriate intervals   *  Local/national
term), 930 km (end);                             market condition/prices
Bridges: 30 (mid-term),    Review of documents  (e.g. cost increase in
68 (end)                submitted by RFHA,      labor and material due
*  Contracts awarded:    including Quarterly    to policy changes)
Roads: 500 km (mid-     Progress Reports        *  Climatic/eenvironime
term), 930 km (end);                             ntal conditions
Bridges: 25 (mid-term);    Audits               *  Political/security
68 (end)                                        conditions
*  Rehabilitation works   Monthly Monitoring     *  Sector policy
completed: Roads: 250   Reports                  conditions
km (mid-term), 930 km                            *  Private sector
(end); Bridges: 18 (mid-                        response (e.g.
term), 68 (end)                                  development of the
road construction
*  Procurement of bridge  *  Bid documents                               industry)
and road management     completed US$2.0 million                         *  Government
equipment               (mid-term), US$3.0                               administrative capacity
million (end)                                   (e.g. implementation
*  Contracts awarded to                         delays due to slow
suppliers: US$2.0 million                       procurement,
(mid-term), US$3.0                               processing of
million (end)                                    documents in the
*  Equipment delivered:                         customs)
US$2.0 million (mid-                            *  local financing for
term), US$3.0 million                            the project (e.g.
(end)                                            revenue collection
difficulties, earmarking
*  Studies and training    *  Studies carried out
(staffweeks): 20 sw (mid-
term), 30 sw (end)
* Training delivered
(staffweeks): 40 sw (mid-
term), 60 sw (end)                               Risks: modest risks
(e.g. some risks that
costs will exceed cost
estimates)
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                        (Components to
components: (see Annex 2  component)                                     Outputs)
for project description)
Federal road and bridge    Indicative costs (%   Preparation and         *  Bank and RFHA
program:                financed by Bank loan)    supervision missions to   _



31
*  Road and bridges     *  US$478.2million      periodically review     agree on work
works                   (56%)                   progress with the       definition after
*  Procurement of bridge  *  US$2.0 million     Government              feasibility study
and road management     (100%)                                          recommendations
equipment
*  Design, supervision,   *  US$44.9million
technical assistance and    (100%)
training
Regional road and bridge   *  US$83.3 million
program:                (56%)                                           *  Subsidiary Loan
*  Road and bridges     *  US$1.0 million                               Agreement signed at
works                   (100%)                                         the appropriate time
*  Procurement of                                                       *  Establishment of
bridges and road        *  US$7.3 million                               PIU in the participatinlg
equipment               (100%)                                          regions with
*  Design, supervision,                                                 appropriate staff
technical assistance and                                                *  Commitment of
training                                                                resources by the
regions
*  Costs not
exceeding the costs
estimates
* Availability of
counterpart funds



32
Annex 2
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Ma:intenance Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component I - US$561.5 million (total cost of component)
Federal and Regional Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Works l'rogram
The project will include the rehabilitation of about 930 km of high priority roads and rehabilitation,
repair, reconstruction, replacement, and widening of about 68 high priority bridges under the federal and
regional components of the project. It is expected more works related to unallocated amount of the loan
($30 million), utilization of which will be defined during the first year of implementation.
During the first construction period, contracts will be initiated which include approximately 200 km of
roads. The main program of works will be implemented beginning in the second construction period. The
specific road and bridge works to be included in the second and subsequent years of the project are
identified in the consultants' feasibility study. Engineering design and preparation of contract documents
for the first year program will be undertaken by consultants under the contract covering the feasibility
study. During implementation of the first year construction program, consultants will carry out
engineering design, preparation of contract documents, and the selection of contractors so that additional
road and bridge works can be initiated during the second year of project implementation.
The main program of road and bridge rehabilitation will include a much larger number of roads sections
and bridges than the first year program. The main construction program will be spread over at least four
years during which contracts will be awarded. Each contract will specify a time limit, generally from one
to two years in duration. The main program of road and bridge rehabilitation includes priority roads and
bridges on principal federal roads and regional roads in Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk krais. The road
segments and bridges have been selected from priority lists (prepared by the consultants responsible for
the feasibility study), which show the expected ERR for each road section and bridge.
Road and bridge works contracts will be organized as slice and package construction contracts so that
smaller firms can participate, as well as larger firms which can price bids based on economies of scale. It
is anticipated that there will be some packages of around US$15 million but that there may also be
packages (composed of slices between US$5 million and US$15 million) amounting to about US$50
million. The earlier HRMP and BRP projects had packages ranging around US$10 million, a size for
which the SBD for Small Works was designed, and it has senred satisfactorily. This SBD has been
translated into Russian and is the basis for the national standardi contract used in federal road works
financed with local funds. It is proposed to continue the use of this SBD for the proposed project for
contracts up to US$10 million equivalent. Above this threshold, the SBD for Larger Works should be
used, thus consolidating its initial use under BRP. Bridges of standard design which are located within a
road link being rehabilitated will generally be included in the contract for that road link. Bridges of non-
standard design, or for which the estimated construction cost exceeds $1.0 million, will be contracted
separately or combined with other bridges of non-standard design.



33
Project Component 2 - US$3.0 million (total cost of component)
Procurement of Bridge and Road Equipment
Procurement of equipment for office modernization and vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies as an
aid for better management of roads and bridges.
Project Component 3 - US$52.2 million (total cost of component)
Design, Supervision, Technical Assistance and Training
This component includes assistance to RFHA (including DORINVEST) and to the participating regions
and their implementation units, for design of road and bridge works and supervision of such works,
specialized consultants, and training of federal road and bridge staff. This component will continue and
expand the institution-building activities financed under the on-going HRMP and BRP, including
improvement of the administrative, technical, and financial functions of RFHA and the regions of the
Russian Federation.
a)  Policy Support. The project will support improvements of RFHA policies for road and bridge
management. The project will also support appropriate policy development for road and bridge
management for regional road administrations.
b) Project Preparation and Implementation Support. Support will be provided under the project in
procurement and project management to the Prnject Implementation Units of RFHA and the
participating regions. Consultants will be retained to diagnose the condition of road segments and
bridges identified for inclusion in the project, design remedial works, prepare bidding documents,
and supervise the works. This component will also comprise a provision for preparation of follow-up
projects, including relevant social, financial, economic, environmental studies, and an Indigenous
Peoples' Development Plan for the Tobolsk-Khanty-Mansiysk road area if the Tyumen-Tobolsk
road is to be rehabilitated. This component will also include financing of annual audit of the project
accounts.
c) Institutional D)evelopment and Training. Technical staff of RFHA will be provided technical
training in road and bridge maintenance and management. This component will include strengthening
the professional capacity to undertake environmental evaluations and analyze social-cultural
problems in the highway sector, develop related guidelines, policies and training and promote
increased inter-institutional coordination. Staff of the PIUs of the participating regions will be
provided training in project planning, procurement procedures, financial controls, and administration
of works.



34
Annex 3
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maini:enance Project
Estimated Total Project Costs
Local           Foreign      Total
Base  Contini-    Base   Contin-  Base  Contin-
Project Component                                 Cost  gencies    Cost   gencies  Cost gencies
------------------------US $ milllion------------------------
Federal ComDonent
Road and Bridges Works                            182.7     27.4   233.0       35.0   415.7    62.4
Bridges and Road Management Equipment                                 1.7       0.3     1.7    (0.3
Design, Supervision, Technical Assistance and                       39.1        i.9    39.1     5 Q
Training
Subtotal     182.7     274    273.9      41.1   456.6    68.5
Physical Contingencies                                       9 1               13.7            22.8
Price Contingencies                                         18.3              27.4             45.7
Subtotal (Including Contingencies)  210.1            315.0             525.1
Krasnoyarsk Krai Component
Road and Bridges Works                             11.6      1 7     14.8       2.2    26.3      4.()
Bridges and Road Management Equipment                                0.4        0.1     0.4      (. I
Design, Supervision, Technical Assistance and                        2.2        0.3     2.2      (.3
Training
Subtotal      11.6      1 7    17.4       2.6    29.0      4.3
Physical Contingencies                                       0.6               0.9               1.4
Price Contingencies                                          1.2                1.7             2.9
Subtotal (Including Contingencies)  13.3               20              . 33.3
Khabarovsk Krai Component
Road and Bridges Works                            20.3       3.0    25.7       3.9    46.0      6.9
Bridges and Road Management Equipment                                0.4       0.1      0.4     (. I
Design, Supervision. Technical Assistance and                        4.2       0.6      4.2     0.6
Training
Subtotal     20.3       3 0    30.4       4.6    50.7      7.6
Physical Contingencies                                       1 0                1.5             2.5
Price Contingencies                                          2.0               3.0              5.1
Subtotal (Including Contingencies)  23.3               35               58.3
Unallocated                                        17.0      3.0    25.5       4.5    42.5      7.5
Subtotal (Including Contingencies)  20.0              30.0              50.0
Total Base Cost                                   232.2            347.8              579.7
Total Physical Contingencies                                11.6               17.4             29.0
Total Price Contingencies                                   23.2               34.8             58.(
Total Project Cost (Including Contingencies)      266.7            400.0              666.7



35
Annex 3 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Estimated Project Costs (Summary)
Proiect Comwonent                                           Local      Foreign     Total
--------------US $ million-----------
Federal Component
Road and Bridge Works                                       210.1        268.1      478.2
Bridge and Road Management Equipment                                       2.0        2.0
Design. Supervision. Technical Assistance and Training                    44.9       44.9
Subtotal                                                    210.1        315.0      525.1
Krasnovarsk Krai Component
Road and Bridge Works                                         13.3        17.0       30.3
Bridges and Road Management Equipment                                      0.5        0.5
Design, Supervision. Technical Assistance and Training                     2.5        2. 5
Subtotal                                                      13.3        20.0       33.3
Khabarovsk Krai Component
Road and Bridge Works                                        23.3         29.7       53.0
Bridges and Road Management Equipment                                      0.5        0.5
Design. Supervision. Technical Assist nce and Training                     4.8        4.8
Subtotal                                                     23.3         35.0       58.3
Unallocated                                                  20.0         30.0       50.0
Total Proiect Cost                                          266.7        400.0      666.7
(Including Contingencies)



36
Annex 4
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Sumrnmary
(For Roads and Bridges Sub-Projects)
(US$ Million 1997)
Present Value of Flows          Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial
Analysis      Analvsis*     Taxes**        Subsidies
Benefits              1602.2
Costs                 643.0
Net Benefits:         959.2
IRR                   26.7
* No financial analysis was required for the project
** Project costs exclude taxes and duties
Summary of Benefits and Costs
Federal Roads and Bridges
The project includes road and bridge works on about 700 km of federal roads extending over a
vast area of Siberia from Tumen to Irkutsk, 190 km of the Mioscow-Minsk road, and more than
20,000 meters of large bridges (exceeding 15 meters in length) on that network. These works
were selected in a feasibility study of over 3,800 km of federal roads (including small bridges).
The roads to be rehabilitated under the project constitute vitall links in the Russian road network.
The Russian economy is increasingly dependent on the road network.
The estimated economic cost of the federal road and bridge works recommended by the
consultants who undertook the project feasibility study is about US$567 milllion of which US$535
million represents road works on about 900 km and US$32 million major bridge works. These
costs (detailed in the following Tables A and B) exceed tlhe cost estimfates in Annex 3 and
therefore some lower priority works will be excluded during project implementation. These
exclusions can be minimized if a good level of competition prevails among contractors bidding for
the works.
Tables A and B present not only costs of proposed federal road and bridge works but also internal
rates of return (IRR), net present values and other relevant data.



37
Regional Roads and Bridges
The project includes road and bridge works in two selected Siberia regions, the Regional
Administrations of which proposed that certain regional works of high priority be financed under
the project. These works were evaluated by the same consultants who analyzed the federal roads
and bridges. The following regional works were recommended by the consultants: (1) 44 km of
road works in Krasnoyarsk Krai; and (2) the replacement of 40 bridges in Khabarovsk Krai. All of
these facilities are vital to the economies of the three regions.
The consultants' economic cost of the three regional components of the project total US$83.3
million which approximates the cost estimate for road and bridge works in Annex 3.
The following Tables C and D present costs, IRRs and other data for the proposed road and
bridge works in Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovsk regions, respectively. Table E presents an overall
summary of costs, IRRs and other information for the project road and bridge works, broken
down by federal roads and each of the three regional road systems.
Main Assumptions
Details of the economic analysis are described in "Feasibility Study of the Siberia and Far East
Highway Rehabilitation and Development Project," Draft Report, September 1997, a copy of
which is in the Project File. Cost estimates for the project have been reviewed in light of the
recent exchange rate changes. Key features of the economic analysis are:
*  The project includes repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 700 km of federal roads
and about 40 km of regional roads in Russia. An economic feasibility analysis was undertaken for
individual sections of roads.
* Using the Highway Development Model III developed by the World Bank, the options of
repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction were evaluated to determine the optimum strategy for
improving the condition of each road section.
*  The benefits of road sub-projects are savings in vehicle operating costs and savings from
decreased travel time due to improved road conditions and reduced congestion.
*  The project includes repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 28 bridges exceeding 15
meters in length on federal roads, and about 40 bridges on regional roads. These bridges were
subject to individual eco,iomic analysis in the economic feasibility study.
* Using the Bridge Economic Analysis (BEA) model developed for the Bridge Rehabilitation
Project (Loan RU 3990) and subsequently refined, the options of repair, rehabilitation or
reconstruction were evaluated to determine the optimum strategy for improving the condition of
each bridge.
* Construction cost estimates were based on preliminary engineering conducted by the
consultants responsible for the feasibility study. The cost estimates include detailed engineering
design and supervision, and exclude taxes and duties.



38
* Traffic growth rates were estimated based on recent traffic trends and projected rates of
growth in agriculture, mining, industrial production and populal:ion. These data produced traffic
growth rates of 3% to 4% per year over the 20 year useful life of the improvements taken into
account in the economic analysis.
A road or br.dge sub-project was acceptable if the estimated economic rate of return (IRR) was
above 12%.
Sensitivity Analysis of Critical Items
Quantitative sensitivity analysis was carried out as part of the economic analysis for both road and
bridge sub-projects. Detailed results are reported in the economic studies in the Project File. The
major risk affecting the economic performance of the project is investmnent cost increase.
Scenarios considered in the analysis included variations in costs of civil works and levels of
savings in vehicle operating costs. The results of the sensitivity analysis show that the returns of
the sub-projects are satisfactory as summarized in the following table:
Range of I:RRs for Sub Projects (%)
Basic Estimates    20% Cost Increase    20% Reduction in
VOC Savings
Federal Roads and Bridge Works
Tumen - Tobolsk Road                 23 - 31               16 - 27               16 - 26
Tumen - Omsk Road                     8 - 47               6-44                  6 - 40
Krasnoyarsk - Irkutsk Road          18 - 117               14 - 99              13 - 96
Moscow-Minsk                         35-39                 19-32                24-39
Bridges                             13 - 391             26 - >100            22 - >100
Regional Works
Krasnoyarsk                            18                    15                   14
Khabarovsk Bridges                   13 - 35               11 - 23              13 - 34
Notes: (1) For the Tumen - Omsk road. 99% of the 627 total kilometers of road works have at least a 12%
IRR in the basic estimates. The 99% falls to 95% under both of the assumed sensitivity tests.
(2) For the Khabarovsk regional bridge works, under a 20% assumed increase in investment costs,
about one third of the 40 bridges would have an 11% IRR.
(3) About 96% of the 28 Federal bridges, representing 98% of investment costs in the bridge
works. have an IRR of 14% or higher.



39
Annex 4 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table A: Federal Road Works Data
Location       Length     NPV      IRR      Cost    NPV/
#  Federal Road Section           km            km        $mln      %      $ mln    Cost
Siberia ancd Far East Roads
I Krasnoyarsk Krai borderto   1866.9- 1873        6.1    38.63    116.8      3.16    12.22
Irkutsk*
2  Tyumen - Omsk*             10.53 - 21.83       11.3    10.12    32.2      3.64     2.78
3 Tyumen - Omsk*               34 - 39.93          6.0     5.77    33.8      2.62     2.20
4  Tyumen-Tobolsk               30 - 106          76.0    52.45    30.9    25.03      2.10
5 Krasnoyarsk Krai borderto    1723 - 1754        31.3    16.26    31.0      7.74     2.10
Irkutsk*
6  Krasnoyarsk Krai border to    1622 - 1652      26.0     8.64    28.9      4.55     1.90
Irkutsk*
7 Krasnoyarsk Krai borderto    1689 - 1712        23.1     9.56    27.5      6.14     1.56
Irkutsk*
8 Tyumen - Omsk*             39.93 - 52.43        12.5     7.49    27.2      4.94     1.52
9  Tyumen-Tobolsk              107- 149           42.0    20.55    24.9    14.43      1.42
10 Tyumen-Tobolsk              162 - 226          64.0    26.98    22.9    19.24      1.40
11 Krasnoyarsk Krai border to   1372 - 1409.9     38 3     10.93    22.5     7.97     1.37
Irkutsk*
12 Tyumen - Omsk*              52.43 - 63         10.6     5.25    23.2      3.95     1.33
13 Tyumen-Tobolsk               23 - 30            7.0     3.55    23.3      2.70     1.31
14 Krasnoyark City Bypass                         17.8    27.01    23 0     24.92     1 08
15 Tyumen - Omsk*               63 - 73           10.0     4.86    22.2      4.72     1.03
16 Tyumen - Omsk*              499 - 570          71.0    19.32    19.8    22.63      0.85
17 Tyumen-Tobolsk              158- 162            4.0      1.17    18.7      1.43    0.82
18 Krasnoyarsk krai borderto    1343 - 1367       24.4     3.73    18.3       5.04    0.74
Irkutsk*
19 Tyumen - Omsk*               73 - 100          27.0    11.40    19.7    15.66      0.73
20 Krasnoyarsk Kraiborderto    1599 - 1622        26.5      5.08    18.1      7.08    0.72
Irkutsk*
21 KrasnoyarskKraiborderto    1652- 1671          19.0      3.08    16.1      6.20    0.50
lrkutsk*
22 Tyumen - Omsk*              248 - 297          49.0      8.46    16.5    17.76     0.48
23 Tyumen - Omsk*              577 - 593          16.0      4.88    15.6    11.43     0.43
24 KrasnoyarskKrai borderto    1437 - 1477        40.0    21.53     15.2    52.87     0.41
Irkutsk*
25 Tyumen - Omsk*               391 - 467         76.0      6.31    16.2    15.73     0.40
26 Tyumen-Omsk*                 137- 151          14.0      2.19    15.7      5.50     0.40
27 Tyumen - Omsk               380 - 391          11.0      0.92    16.2      2.28     0.40
28 Tyumen - Omsk*               25.3 - 34          8.8      3.27    16.0      8.77     0.37
29 Tyumen - Omsk*               151 - 248         97.0    14.07    15.4    40.08       0.35
30 Tyumen - Omsk                601 - 604          3.0      0.95    14.6      2.77     0.34
31 Tyumen - Omsk*              319 - 372.8        53.8      6.32    14.9    21.28      0.30



40
32 Tyumen - Omsk              593 - 601          8.0      1.61    14.2     6.64    0.24
33 Tyumen - Omsk*             312 - 319          7.0     0.66    14.1      3.05    0.22
34 Tyumen-Omsk                100- 137          37.0     2.92    13.7    17.46    0.17
35 Tyumen - Omsk*            302.6 - 312         9.4     0.71    13.8     4.10    0.17
36 Tyumen - Omsk*             467 - 490         23.0     0.01    12.0      6.94    0.00
37 Tyumen - Omsk             372.8 - 376.8       4.0    -0.56     8.1      1.58   -0.35
Subtotal                 1,010.9   '66.08           412.03    0.89
Subtotal Weighted A verage                                  20.0
IRR
* Road segments selected by RFHA as first priority (737.1 km)
Mos cow- Minisk Rcad
18 1-10                       215-220             5    18.99    38.3      5.85    3.25
39 1-11                        220-245            25    62.48    35.4    23.75    2.63
40 1-12                        245-265            20    51.44    49.0    12.00    4.29
41 1-13                        265-282            17    42.75    53.0      9.35    4.57
42 1-14                        282-292            10    25.41    54.0      5.50    4.62
43 1-15                        292-355            63   196.58    52.6    38.65    5.09
44 1.16                        355-397            42   120.73    56.4    23.10    5.23
45 1-17                        397-405             8    20.83    59.5      4.40    4.74
Subtotal                   190.0   539.22            122.6    4.40
Suibtotal Weighted A verage                                 49.3
IRR
Total                 1,200.9    905.3            534.6      1.7
Total Weighted Average IRR                                   26.7



41
Annex 4 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table B: Federal Bridges Data
Bridge Location   NPV        IRR        Cost       NPV/
Bridge No              Road                    at km         $ thous       %        $ thous       Cost
I     Krasnoyarsk Krai border to             1351          2.640       400         505        7.26
Irkutsk
2      Krasnoyarsk Krai border to             1357          1.469      391          331       6.17
Irkutsk
3      Tyunien - Omsk                       32.331         3.342        169         838       4.87
TNvumien- Omsk                         577          4.629        111       1.21(0      4.36
5      Tvunuen - Omsk                       16.957          1.060        46         400       3.51
6      Tyuwien - Omsk                       285.03          1.787       103         735       3.25
7      Tvumen - Omsk                        32.553           850         46         373       2.89
8      Tvunen - Omsk                        94.742           9(8         44         536       2.35
9      Tyumen - Omsk                        11.946          1.116        39         682       2.27
I(     Tyunmen-Omsk                        192.170          1.687        68        1,011      2.22
11     Tvunien - Omsk                       78.825           917         41         551       2.08
12     Tyumen- Omsk                         97.238         1013         57         717        1.78
13     Tvumen - Omsk                        78.534          8.734        29       12,176      0.86
14     Tvunen-Tobolsk                       25.947           387         24         613       (.81
15     Tvunien-Tobolsk                       98.49           549         24         871       0.80
16     Tvumen-Tobolsk                      177.672           372         23         692       0.70
17     Krasnovarsk Krai border to             1634            140        26         396       0.49
Irkutsk
18     Krasnoyarsk Krai border to           30.836           275         20         750       0.47
Irk}utsk
19     Tynumen-Tobolsk                      184.84           234         18         776       0.39
20     T'vunien-Tobolsk                    117.423            199        16        1,171       0.23
21     Tvulen-Tobolsk                      253.008            117        17         692        0.23
22     Krasnovarsk Krai border to             1726            118        17         719        0.23
Irk-utsk
23     Krasnovarsk Krai border to             1599             79        17         519        0.21
Irk-utsk
24     Tvunmen-Tobolsk                     178.561            125        17         931        0.18
25     TNumen-Tobolsk                      215.872            103        16         901        0.15
26     Tyumen-Tobolsk                      221.692             60        14         958        0.08
27     Krasnovarsk Krai border to            218.2             56        14         972        0.08
Irkutsk
28     Krasnoyarsk Krai border to             1657             16        13         593        0.04
Irkutsk
Total                                              32,982                 31,619
Weighted average                                                  46                   1.32



42
Annex 4 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Matintenance Project
Table C: Krasnoyarsk Road Data
Location     Length       NPV       IRR        Cost      NPV/
Road and bridge works   km           km         $ mln      %         $ mln      Cost
B.Krasnoyar.sk Oblast
Aban-Boguchanu road    154-190         44         9.4       17.5      27.0       0.35



43
Annex 4 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table D: Khabarovsk Bridges
Data on Selikhino - De Kastri Road
Location    NPV          IRR         Cost          NPV/
#     Name of the watercourse    km        $ thous         %          $ thous        Cost
I    Shelekhovo river             105          824         34.1         1.809         0.46
2     Machtovava river             41           974        30.7         2.535         0.38
3    Yai river                    245         1.011        27.9         2.899         0.35
4     Gornava river                62           534        27.3         1,464         0.36
5     Beshenaya river             194           534        27.3         1.464         0.36
6     Bvstrava river              209           534        27.3         1.464         0.36
7     B.Kadinskava river          219           534        27.3         1,464         0.36
8     Sadunigra river             270           534        27.3         1,464         0.36
9     Mutu river                  285           534        27.3         1,464         0.36
10    Bimil river                  50           294        20.3          1.281        0.23
11    Bimika river                 55           294        20.3          1.281        0.23
12    riverw/oananic               57           294        20.3          1.281        0.23
13    Aksvan river                 65           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
14    Gachinskava river            70           294        20.3          1.281        0.23
15    Tuganikha river              78           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
16    Khalzan river                81           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
17    Bystraya river               95           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
18   river w/o a namne             97           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
19    Semenovskv river            128           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
20    Dai river                   145           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
21    Salasu river                153           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
22    Khivanda river              170           294        20.3          1,281        0.23
23    Perevalnava river           290           189         17.7         1,052        0.18
24    Khanda river                298           189         17.7         1,052        0.18
25    Dui river                   301           189         17.7         1,052        0.18
26    M.Somon river               327           189         17.7         1,052        0.18
27    river w/o a name             70            65         14.4          831         0.08
28    riverA/oanamne               71            65         14.4          831         0.08
29    Yagodnv river               11I            65         14.4          831         0.08
30    Pisuichik river             117            65         14.4          831         0.08
31    Kakchu river                130            65         14.4          831         0.08
32    Maikan I river              133            65         14.4          831         0.08
33    Maikan 2 river              135            65         14.4          831         0.08
34    Utondva river               173            65         14.4          831         0.08
35    Gorelava I river            181            65         14.4          831         0.08
36    Gorelava 2 river            182            65         14.4          831         0.08
37    riverw/oanamne              186            65         14.4          831         0.08
38    Myatava river               188            65         14.4          831         0.08
39    Sugdaku river               232            65         14.4          831         0.08
40    Suslova river               320            41         13.5          831          0.05
Total                                  11,479                    48,525         0.24
Weighted Average                                     21.5



44
Annex 4 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table E: Summary Data of Project Roads and Bridges
Weighted      NPV      Weighted      Cost    Length    Number of
NPV/Cost      $ min    IRR, %        $ mln   km          Bridges
Federal Component
Roads Works          1.64      905.3        26.7       535    1,200
Bridge Works         1.32      32.98        41.9        32         -           28
Federal         1.62     938.26        21.8       567    1,200            28
Regional Component
Krasnoyarsk         0.35       9.40        17.5        27       44              -
Khabarovsk         0.68       11.48        21.4        49        -            40
Regional         0.56      20.88        20.0        76       44            40
Total Works                   1.50     959.16        26.7       643    1,244            68



45
Annex 5
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million)
Implementation Period
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts              38.8   131.5  161.0      188.0  107.5       39.9    666.7
Financing Sources (% of total
costs)
IBRD                         23.3    78.9   96.6       112.8   64.5      23.9    400.0
(60%)   (60%) (60%)    (60%) (60%)    (60%)    (60%)
Russian Federation           13.7    43.2   50.4       56.3   33.6       12.9    210.1
(35%)   (33%) (31%)    (30%) (31%)    (32%)    (32%)
Participating Regions         2.2      7.3    8.8       10.2    5.9       2.2      36.6
(5)    (5%)   (6%)      (6%)   (6%)       (5%)      (5%)
Krasnoyarsk KrCii      0.8      2.5    3.1       4. 1    2.0       0.8      13.3
(2%)    (2%/)   (2%)    (2/o)    (2%)    (2%)        (2%/)
Khabharovsk Ki-Ii      1.0      4.S    5.9       6.9    4.0        1.0      23.3
(3O/O)   (3%/O)  (4%O)    (4%Yq)  (4%/)     (3%/O)    (3%/)
Unallocated                      ---      2.4    5.0       7.9    3.4        1.3      20.0
(2)    (3)       (4)    (3)        (3)     (3.0)
Total                     38.8   131.5   161.0   188.0   107.5    39.9    666.7
(100%)  (100%)  (100%)  1100%)  (100%)  (100%)   (100%)



46
Annex 6
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Anrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The overall schedule of major procurement steps is given in the Procurement Implementation Plan
(PIP).
IPrior review thresholds (Table B)
a)  Civil Works
Civil works in the project consist of road and bridge rehabilitation and repair works amounting to
some US$561.5 million out of the total project cost of US$666.7 million. Civil works will be
generally procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICl3), except that works estimated to
cost less than US$3 million up to an aggregate of US$21 million will be procured through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
b) Goods
The proposed project will finance about US$3.0 million of equipment for office modernization
and road and bridge management. This component will be procured through a combination of
ICB and international and national shopping.
c)  Technical Assistance
Consultancy Services of 2970 staff months, estimated to cost about US$56.2 million, will be
procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
Disbursement
Allocationi of Loan Proceeds (Table (')
The allocation of Loan proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates the different
financing for the various categories expenditures. Disbursements against civil works contracts
will cover 56% of the certified expenditures, with the balance to be financed by counterpart funds.



47
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs):
Some withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenses (SOE) under contracts costing less than the equivalent of:
(a) $3,000,000 for civil works;
(b) $200,000 for the services of consulting firms; and
(c) $50,000 for the services of individual consultants;
(d) $100,000 for goods;
(e) training and studies.
Special Accotmt
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, four Special Accounts in US dollars in a
commercial bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the Special
Account would be limited to Account A, US$2,500,000; Account B, US$500,000; Account C,
and US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement under the loan components
pertaining to Special Accounts A, B, and C have reached the level of $5,000,000, $1,000,000,
and $1,000,000 respectively, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation
of $5,000,000, $1,000,000, and $1,000,000 respectively by submitting the relevant Application
for Withdrawal. Replenishment application should be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.



48
Annex 6 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Road and Bridge Works
Federal Component           463.2       15                                478.2
(259.7)    (8,4)                             (268.1)
Regional Component          77.3        6                                 83.3
(43 1)     (3.6)                             (46.7)
2. Goods
Federal Component           0.3                    1.71                   2
(0.3)                  (1.7)                 (2)
Regional Component                                  1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
3. Services
Federal Component                                  44.92                 44.9
(44.9)                (44.9)
Regional Component                                 7.3                    7.3
(7.3)                 (7.3)
Unallocated                                                              50
(30)
Total                    540.8       21.0        54.9                  666.7
(303.1)    (12.0)      (54.9)                (400.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Procurement of Goods include International and National Shopping in accordance with the threshold provided in
Table B.
2 Services will be provided in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines; (QCBS).



49
Annex 6 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ Million equivalent)
Selection Method                    Total Cost (including
Consultant Services                                                          contingencies)
Expenditure Category
QCBS   QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ   Other  N.B.F.
52.0                                                 56.0
A. Firms             (526.0)                                               (56.0)
B. Individuals                                            0.2              0.2
(0.2)           (0.2)
Total                                                       56.2
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



50
Annex 6 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Met]hods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Cat,gorv            (Threshold)              Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works           US$3 million or more   ICB                  Yes/US$543 .3 million
Federal and Regional    Under US$3 million  NCB                   The first contract package
Components                                                        bv each participating FRD
and region/US$5.0 million
2. Goods
Equipment for office    US$300,000 or more   ICB                  Yes/US$ 1.0 million
modernization and road
and bridge management
systems
Federal Component     Under US$300,000 per  International Shopping   No
contract. and up to an
aggregate US$70.)000
Under US$100,000 per  National Shopping     No
contract. and up to an
aggregate
US$ 1,000000
Regional Component    Under US$300,000 up   International Shopping   No
to an aggregate of
US$750,000
Under US$100.000 up   National Shopping     No
to an aggregate of
US$250,000 for each
region (US$500,000
for two regions)
3 Services
Consulting Services   Firms over            QCBS                  Yes/US$52.0 million
US$100,000
Individuals over      Shortlisted on the basis  Yes/US$0. 1 million
US$50,000             of CVs
Below the respective                        Only Terms of Reference to
thresholds                                  be reviewed
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$601.4 million



51
Annex 6 (continued)
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                    Amount in    Financing Percentage
US$ million
Civil Works                                       313.8           56%
Goods                                             3.0             100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured
locally
Consultant's Services. Training and Studies       52.2            100%
Incremental Operating Costs*                       1.0            100%
Unallocated                                  30             60
Total      400.0
Incremental Operating Costs means the costs for anmual auditing of the project accounts.



52
Annex 7
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
499.8                339.7
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/091996            09/09/1996
Appraisal mission (first stage)                 09/15/1997           09/15/1997
Negotiations                                    12/01/1997           06/22/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/19'8
Prepared by: Russian Federal Highway Administration and Bank staff
Preparation assistance: Canadian Trust Fund, Swiss Trust Fund, French Trust Fund, Finnish Trust
Fund, US Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), French Ministry of Equipment, Transport
and Tourism
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialtv
Cesar Queiroz                        Engineer and Team Leader
Nadezhda Ouzhinskaya                    Transport Research Assistant
Karine Bussone                       Financial Analyst/Economist
Gurcharan Singh                         Procurement Specialist
Shelton Davis                         Environmental Specialist
Viren Sirohi                         Environmental Specialist
Irina Kichigina                              Counsel
Ashot Harutounian                           Urban Specialist
Oksana Zhigalina                     Transport Research Assistant
Cengiz Bayirli                           Research Assistant
Marie Laygo                              Team Assistant



53
Annex 8
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and NMaintenance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
DORINVEST's letter DU 17/13-952 dated August 1, 1997
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Pre-appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, July 14, 1997
First Stage Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, October 9, 1997
Procurement Implementation Plan, October 1997
Preparation Mission Back-to-Office Report, March 27, 1998
C. Other
USSR State Committee on Civil Engineering, "Building Code and Regulations -
Automobile Roads" SNIP (BC+R) 2.5.02-85, Moscow, 1986.
Russian Federation, Ministry of Transport, Federal Roads Department, "Roads of Russia
Program for the Improvement and Development of Motor Roads in the Russian
Federation, 1995-2000, "Moscow, 1994, pp. 123.
Leo Rothenburg, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Waterloo, "Review of
Highway Design Standards of the Former Soviet Union" (report submitted to the Asian
Development Bank), Waterloo, Canada, 1996.
Leo Rothenburg, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Waterloo, "Emerging
Road Network Management Systems and the Status of Pavement Structural Design
Standards in the Russian Federation", prepared for the W'orld Bank, July 1997.
World Bank "Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to the Executive Directors on a Countiy Assistance Strategy of the
World Bank Group for the Russian Federation," May 6, 1997 (restricted distribution).
Shelton H. Davis, R. Scott Hanna and Igor 1. Krupnik "P're-appraisal Mission Back to
Office Report (Environmental + Socio-Cultural Component)," prepared for the World
Bank, Washington D.C., July 7, 1997.
IrkutskgiprodorniilKampsax "Feasibility Study of Siberia and Far East Highway
Rehabilitation and Development Project, Draft" Final Report, 1997.
Irkutskgiprodornii/Kampsax "Feasibility Study of Siberia and Far East Highway
Rehabilitation and    Development Project", Final Report, 1997



54
lrkutskgiprodornii/Kampsax "Environmental Assessment Executive Summary", October
1997.
Irkutskgiprodornii/Kampsax " Final Environmental Assessment Report", November 1997.
R. Scott Hanna, Igor I. Krupnik and Junko Funahashi "Appraisal Mission Back to Office
Report (Environmental + Socio-Cultural Component)," prepared for the World Bank,
Washington D.C., October 2, 1997.
Irkutskgiprodomii/Kampsax "Additional Information to the Feasibility Study of the Siberia
and Far East Highway Rehabilitation project
Russian Federal Highway Administration "Feasibility Study for Moscow-Minsk Road
Rehabilitation M-1, km 215-405", May 1998
Letter from DORINVEST NDI 17/21-975 of June 17, 1998, "Sensitivity analysis for
bridges on the Moscow-Minsk Road, km 215-405"
*Including electronic files.



55
Annex 9
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Matintenance Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
Operations Portfolio
(as of October 26, 1998)
Ditlerence Between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in USS Millions                 disbursements a
Fiscal
Project II)      Year            Bonrower                 P'urpmse
IBRI)       I[DA       (ancella   I!ndisbursed         Urig  Fmi Recvd
tions
lunaber of Closed i7r1JecCtS 
Active Plroectc
RIJ-PE-55137        1999    RI SSIAN FEDERATION   SAL III             I           l.9 Si1         48)I     I I )        1.200 111    -3A50.Isl         0 
Rl.-PE46496         1998    G(OVERNMENT (F             SO(C PROTEcT               28 60          1)4x8     ( It)           27.l)1      371.            1)
RUSSIA                    IM}'L
Rl.-PE-50486        1998    RlrJSSIAN FEDERATION    COAL SEt AL II               8)1.18)         1(x)      11.00         4001.)      2l11.(X           I(l)
RU-PE-38573         1997    RIISSIANFEDERATION    SoC. PRI)TECT.                 801).()         I)(H)     1.111)         25U1.0l    250.0(N           1)1)1
ADJ
R.J-PE-4272o)       1997    RUSSIAN FEDERATION    ST. PETERSBURG                  31.(H)         0)01      0.(8)           28.28       5.99            oI
REHAB
RU-PE44200           997    RU.SSIANFED)ERATION    BlJREAIJOF                     22.60          (10))     0)4)             9)90      -211              ((Il
ECON Pt ILIC
RIJ-PE-50891        1997    RIISSIANFEDERATION    ELECTR SEC'TOR                  4).04)        11) x)     0(l)           4110)       15. 1            1) (0o
REFFOR
RIJ-P'E-8814        1997    (;OVERNMENT OF             HEALTH REFORM          (I                 0)5) (XI    5I           (.4.38       1,.68)          11111
RtISSIA                   lILt IT
RIU-PE-8825         1997   (GOIVT. (F RUSSIA           EDUCATION                  71.1H)         1)t(XI    01)            (.946         IN(            11)
INNIVATION
Rll-PE-35761        1996    (.OVT. (F RI.ISSIA         CO(MMIJNITt               2(H).IX)        ()I8)     0)8)           18848       27.49)           1) 11
S(OCIAL INF
RlJ-'E-35764        1996    RU.SSIAN FEI)ERATI(ON    BRID(';E                    351),1)          1(XI)    I)IX)         31451       115.t)3 o0
REHABILITATIO
RtJ-rE-36973        1996    RUJSSIANFEDERATI(ON    ENTi'.HO()lSINtl              31H).)          (1)(I     (I(H)         28925        24.24            10)1
DIVESTI
RIJ-PE-38571        1996   (GOVERNMENT (F              MEDICAL   .               27O.(H)         0.(H(     11.4          128.47       38.47             M.15)
RIJSSIA                   EQIJII'MENT
RIJ-PE-42(22        1996    GOVT (F RIJSSIAN           CAPITAL MARKET             8918)          001)      OIH) X4345                 23.20            222
FEI)ERATI                 DEV
RIJ-PE-45622        1996    RIJSSIAN FEIDERATI(ON    COAL Al'                    25)H)          O(H))     11)8           21)()9       8110            111
RIJ-PE-8831         199t  (.OXVT. (IF RUSSIA           LEGAL REFOIRM             58.1x)         0.(1)     11)8)          52)(9       21.59             WH.Jo
PRO IJECT
RU-PE-8837          1996    0O.)VT OF RUJSSIA          STANDARllS                 24.1N)         O(H)     )(H)             111s4      1) 711           11IN)
DEVEL( Oi'
RlJ-PE-38572        1995    GOVT (F RIJSSIA            TAX                        U, 8)          ()(H)     11IX)           958         9 1)            8t,1
ADMINISTRATI ION
RIJ-.'E.-k409       1995    RI ISSIAN FEIDERATIOIN   EMER(; tIL.SPI .1.           91') (4(H))              1)()X           21407      21.1N>             (1)
MIT
RIlJ-PE-8803        1995    RIJSSIANFEI)ERATION    RIJSSIAIENiERGY               I0)5,i         O4(H)    3(65o            o777       92.67            29.77
EFFICY
RUt-PE-880(         1995    RUSSIAN FEDERATION    IJRBAN                         32') IS)        o)4)      1)(X)          11395       6891             o1)
TRANSP( )RT
RU-I'E-8821         1995    RUlSSIAN FEDERATION    ENVIRoNME.NT                  I111.18)        0)8)(NI   (4              71 70       542             0.1()(
MANA( EME
RI J-PE-8823        1995    G OVERNIvENTOF             P(ORTF(I.OIO              141))           O(mH)     4)4I)           1()07      3)) l 1,1
RI JSSIA                  DEVELOPMI'MEN
RU-PE-8826          1995    RIISSIAN FEDERATION    MANA(;EMENI                    4)i(H)         0(H)      4)48            11.34       8.49            011H1
AND FINAN
R(;-T'E-8827        1995    Rt.ISSIAN FEDERATION    HOUlSINO                     4)81)8         ((H)     O1(I           24 23       17859             I.
R(lJ-PE-34579       1994    REI'IOF RUSSIAN FEI)    LAND REFOPRM                  8)lX)        14(4)      01K)           e,1.36      54.37            11.151
IMF'L SI!
R.IJ-PE-8805        1994    RIUSSIAN FEDERATI(ON    OlL REHAI  11                5()X) 4I)()               472            177.31)    182.02          177.3o1
RlJ-PE-8808         1994    RUSSIAN FEDERATION    HlIGHWAY REHAIA                3  I4I    4) 1(8          1)(4)          47.35       17.89            Ill)
& MAIN
RU-PE-8811          1994    REF.OF RU.SSIAN FEI).    AGRIC REFIRM                24)14X)         O(X)8    84) (XI         106.83     171 84           49.96
IIF'L.
RI.l-PE-8828        1994    M(OF                       FINANCIAL                 2)81.iX)        0(48      41.(X          136.93     136.94           65.14
INSTIT ITIt )
Rl.-PE-8839         1994    (X1VT OF RI.SSIA           ENTERP}RISE               2(H).811       04.1X      44.18)         174.59     146.61            IJ.(H)
SUPPO )RT
RU-PE-8809          1993    RUSSIAN FEDERATION    OIL REHAB                      610.4X)         1411    183.75            14.60     198.35            14.60
RU.-PE-9810         1993    C.OVT OF RUSSIA            PRIVATIZATION              9K11)         0tIlX)     1.t0)           13.01      13.01           13.(1J
Rll-PE-8822         1993    (.(VERNMENT(OF             ENMLOYMENT                 7)1.0X0        4404)    l(l.(I4         26.13      36.12            1O.4t,



56
Difference Between expected
and actual
Original Amount in IJSS Millionc               disbursements av
Fiscal
Project I)       Year            Borrower                 Purpose
IBRI)       IDA        ('ancella   lIndisbursed        orig  Fmi Rev'd
tions
RUJSSIA                   SERV & S(xIAL
PRoT
Total                                                                          8.10650(          O.0X   31497           4.52441    1.820,68          3X2h'2
Active lProects       Closed Proiects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                          3.267 11               3, 100()                6.0367. 1i
ofwich has been repaid:                                  9 71                   29330                  39.0I
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                         7.781 80                3.070(70               10.85250
Amount sold                                                 tA)())                  .00(                    (.(O
Of which repaid                                           () ()(N                                         (0)
Total indisbursed                                        4.52441                    ().t)               4.52441
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as prtojected at appraisal
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



~7
Annex 10
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Country At A Glance
Europe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Russian    Central  middle.
Federation     Asia  Income        Development diamond
1997
Populaton, mid-year (millons)                      147.3       476     2.285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                 2.740    2320       1.230
GNP (Atlas method, USSbillions)                    403.5     1.106     2.818
Average annual growth, 1991417
Population (%)                                       -0.2      0.2       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor fore (%)                                       0.1        0.5       1.3     Wer           .        -      pnrimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199197)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national Poverty line)  31
Urban population (% of total population)              77        67        42   1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              17        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             3                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                ..         ..       84
Illiteracy (% of population ag. 15+)                             .        19   1
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ge population)  91        92       111 Russan Federation
Male                                                                   116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                                 113   |
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (USS Oillions)                                           429.7    492.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                  22.6      21.8                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                             24.1      22.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    26.6      24.5
Gross national savings/GDP                                     24.7     22.4
Current account balance/GDP                                     2.1      0.5     Oomestic
Interest payments/GDP                                          0.8       0.7         nInvstment
Total debt/GDP                                                 291       251
Total debt service/exports                                      6.7      6.5
Present value of debVGDP                                       21.3
Present value of debt/exports                                  87.5
Inclebtedness
197864  198947      1996      1997   1998-02
(avPrage annual growth)
GDP                                                  -3.5       0.8                        Russian Federation
GNP per capita                                      -3.5        0. 6                       Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                        2.3       5.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                                     7.3      8.0
Industry                                                      39.1      36.5
Manufacturing                                                5.         55~
Services                                                       53.6     55.5     . 20+
Private consumption                                           61.9      63.6            re   93   94   e5   9    9o
Generai govemment consumption                                  11.5      11.9  -jGol                       GOP
Imports of goods and services                                 20.1      20.0
197686  1989.97     1998      1997      Growth rtes of exports and Imports (%i
(average annua/ growth)
Agriculture                                                    -9.0       0.1    20 T
Industry                                                        6 .5      0.3
Manufacturing                                                                  o0
Services                                                        1.5       0.2      i    24   95    1
Private consumption                                            11.5       3.4   -20
General govemment consumpbon                                  -27.3       4.7
Gross domestic investment                                     -21.6      -2.8    40 L
Imports of goods and services                                   0.2      iZo                   -xpor      '  Irnt
Gross national product                                         -3.8       0 3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicatorm in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



58
Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1986        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices200
(% change)                                                                                2.000
Consumer prices                                    ..         .       47.5      14.8      1.500      *
Implicit GDP deflator                               ..       ..       43.9      17.3      1 000.
Government flnance                                                                         500.
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                          0
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       29.5      30.6                92    93    94    9s    93    97
Current budget balance                              ..       ..       -3.8      -3.3                  -GDP deflator           CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..        ..       -8.7      -7.6                                                   1
TRADE
(USS millions)                                  1976      1986       1998       1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..        ..    90,513    88,676       100.000
Crude oil                                         ..       ..    15,976    14,773
Natural gas                                      ..        ..    15,814    16.419        *00L
Manufactures                                     ..        ..      9,100     9,450       00.000.
Total imports (cif)                                ..         .     70,020    74.451       40
Food                                             ..        ..    11.500    12,970                1  *      9    9    9     _
Fuel and energy                                   ..       ..      1,848     2,135       20000
Capital goods                                     ..       ..    14,400    18,447            0    - .      9  .4         . 96 9
Export price index (1995=100)                      ..        ..
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..        .           ..        ..   C              Exports      W Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..        .._.._..___                                                               I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986        1998       997       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                      ..        ..   103,459   102,196       3
Imports of goods and services                       ..       ..    86,216    90,065
Resource balance                                    ..       ..    17,243    12,131       2
Net income                                          ..       ..    -8,171    -9,200
Net current transfers                              ..        ..         24      -362                          I      -ii
Current account balance                             ..       ..      9,096     2,569
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..   -13,957    -1,471       0 .    .
Changes in net reserves                             ..       ..      4,861    -1,098          91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        ..    15,324    17,908
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWVS$)                    ..        ..        5.1       5.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1998      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..        ..   125,044   123,500
IBRD                                             ..        ..     2,509      5,053               G: 6.803     A: 5,053
IDA                                              ..        ..         0          0                                  C: 13,231
Total debt service                                 ..        ..      7,002     6,746
IBRD                                              ..       ..       121        178                                       0:413
IDA                                              ..        ..         0          0       F: 34,200 /
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..       459          ..              X
Official creditors                               ..        ..      2,029     1,725
Private creditors                                ..        ..       968      3,981
Foreign direct investment                        ..        ..     2,478      6,241
Portfolio equity                                 ..        ..     5,008                                                  800
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..        ..      1,923     3,344      A- IBRD                         E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..      1,097     2,691      B- IDA     0 - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             ..        ..         0          0     C- IMF                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..        ..     1,097      2,691
Interest payments                                ..        ..       121        178
Net transfers                                    ..        ..       976      2,513
Development Economics                                                                                                          9/16/98



Russian Federation
Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement Implementation Plan
1.    Project Procurement Arrangements: Project procurement arrangements are summarized
in attached Table A. The thresholds for different procurement methods and prior review are
included in Table B. The project procurement plan is included in Table C. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents of January 1995 amended to conform to thie latest issue of the "Procuirenent
Guidelines" will be used for the procurement of Bank-financed works, goods and related
services. Consultancy services will be procured according to the "Guidelinesfor the Selection
and Employment of Consultants hy World Banik Borrowers"  of January 1997 including
amendments as of the loan signing date. Procurement will be handled by four PIUs, one for the
Federal Government and one each for three participating regions. A General Procurement Notice
was issued in July 1997.  A Special Procurement Notice will be issued in August 1998.
Procurement workshop will be conducted in September 1998.
2.    Procurement through ICB: The major road and bridge rehabilitation works and related
goods, and equipment amounting to US$544.3 (81.6% of the total project cost) will be procured
through ICB. All civil works packages relating to Federal portion estimatedl to cost $3 million or
more will be procured through ICB. For each of the participating regions, civil works packages
estimated to cost US$3 million or more will be procured through ICB. Most of the road works
will be procured on slice and package basis to attract competition from foreign contractors and
large Russian contractors as well as small Russian contractors. After prequalification, potential
bidders would be classified to bid for one or more slices. These contracts will cover the entire
complex of road rehabilitation works, and the necessary additional works to enable traffic safety
requirements mandated by the recently enacted law on traffic safety. For goods and equipment,
the Federal components estimated to cost US$300,000 or more would be procured through ICB.
In comparison of bids for goods and equipment to be procured. through ICB, domestic preference
will apply as per paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Most of the
contract packages will be awarded between 1999 and 2002, although a few pilot contracts are
scheduled for 1998.
3.    Other Forms of Procurement: The remaining 18.4 % of the project requirements will be
packaged in accordance with Tables A and B suitable for procurement through procedures other
than ICB.
(a)   National Competitive Bidding (N(:'B): Certain small sections of road works are dispersed
and of small value. It is not feasible to create large enough packages of such sections to
attract foreign bidders. About 5% of such road works will be packaged in small bid
packages of about US$2-3 million for the Federal component as well as for the regional
component. Bid packages of value less than US$3 million for Federal component and for
the Regional component would be procured through  ICB. The packages for NCB can
not be grouped further together because of the sites in different regions and the time of the
execution.



2
(b)   International Shop>ping (IS): International Shopping Procedures would be used for small
amounts of equipment, where the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price
advantages. For Federal component, goods and equipment estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 with an aggregate not exceeding US$700,000 will be procured through IS.
For each participating Region, contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 with an
aggregate not exceeding US$500,000 would be procured through IS. The IS will be
based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two
eligible source countries, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(c)   National Shoppifng (NS): For Federal Components, contracts less than US$100,000 each
with an aggregate of US$ 1,000,000 would be procured through NS. For each one of the
participating regions, contracts less than US$100,000 with an aggregate not exceeding
US$250,000 would be procured through NS. The NS will be on the basis of prudent
National Shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local
suppliers, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
4.    Consultancy Services:  Consulting services under the project will be procured in
accordance with the (;iiideli,iesfor the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, published by the Bank in January 1997 (The Consultant Guidelines) including
amendments as of loan signing date. The LOI and standard form of contract for consultant
services issued by the Bank will used procuring consulting services. It is estimated that total cost
of consulting services contracts will be about US$52.2 million, about 8% of the project cost.
Consulting services for the Federal and Regional components estimated to cost US$44.9 million
and US$7.3 million comprising 4 and 3 packages respectively be procured through Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS). The services of individual specialists will be contracted on the
basis comparison of CVs of shortlist of eligible candidates. Consultancy services for the Regional
Component estimated at US$11.3 million will be allocated to the three participating regions -
Krasnoyarsk Krai (US$2.5 million) and Khabarovsk Krai (US$4.8 million). These consultancy
services will also be procured on the same basis outlined for the Federal component. The above
procurement of consulting services will provide design, supervision, training, and other necessary
technical assistance under the project.  Table C shows procurement packages for technical
assistance.



3
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement Implementation Plan
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other       N.B.F
1. Road and Bridge Works
Federal Component           463.2       15                                478.2
(259.7)    (8.4)                             (268.1)
Regional Component          77.3        6                                 83.3
(43.1)     (3.6)                             (46.7)
2. Goods
Federal Component           0.3                     1.71                  2
(0.3)                  (1.7)                 (2)
Regional Component                                  1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
3. Services
Federal Component                                  44.92                  44.9
(44.9)                (44.9)
Regional Component                                 7.3                    7.3
(7.3)                 (7.3)
Unallocated                                                              50
(30)
Total                    540.8       21.0        54.9                  666.7
(303.1)    (12.0)      (54.9)                (400.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Procurement of Goods include Intemnational and National Shopping in accordance with the threshold provided in
Table B.
2 Services will be provided in accordance uith the World Bank Guidelines; (QCBS).



4
Russia: Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement Implementation Plan
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works           US$3 million or more   ICB                  Yes/US$543.3 million
Federal and Regional    Under US$3 million  NCB                   The first contract package
Components                                                        by each participating FRD
and region/US$5.0 million
2. Goods
Equipment for office    US$300,000 or more   ICB                  Yes/US$ 1.0 million
modernization and road
and bridge management
systems
Federal Component     Under US$300,000 per  International Shopping   No
contract, and up to an
aggregate US$700,000
Under US$100,000 per  National Shopping     No
contract, and up to an
aggregate
US$ 1,000,000
Regional Component    Under US$300,000 up   International Shopping   No
to an aggregate of
US$750,000
Under US$ 100,000 up   National Shopping    No
to an aggregate of
US$250,000 for each
region (US$500,000
for two regions)
3. Services
Consulting Services   Firms over            QCBS                  Yes/US$52.0 million
US$100,000
Individuals over      Shortlisted on the basis  Yes/US$0.1 million
US$50.000             of CVs
Below the respective                        Only Terms of Reference to
thresholds                                  be reviewed
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$601.4 million



5
Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Procurement Implementation Plan
Table C: Procurement Plan
Estimated Dates
Description               Type   Number of  E.timated Cost-  Procurement  Document            Prequalification   Invitation  Contract  Contract
Contracts  tIS$million      Method        Finalization                       to Bid     Signing   Completion
Road and Bridge Works
i. Federal Component (ICB)
Contract package No. I     CAW         8            76.1           ICB            Dec-98             Yes         Jan-99    Apr-99    Oct-00
(Pilot)
Contract package No.2      CAW         5           123.0           ICB            Sep-99             Yes         Oct-99    Mar-00    Nov-01
Contract package No. 3     CAW         9            88.4           ICB            Dec-99             Yes         Jan-00    Jun-00    Nov-02
Contract package No. 4     CAW        11           146.0           ICB            Dec-00             Yes         Jan-01     Jul-01    Oct-03
Contract package No. 5     CAW         3            30.0           ICB            Dec-00             Yes          Jan-01    Jul-01    Oct-04
ii. Federal Component (NCB)
Contract package No. I     CAW         1             3             NCB            Oct-99             NA          Nov-99    Feb-00    Dec-00
Contract package No.2      CAW         1            2.5            NCB            Feb-00             NA          May-00    Aug-00   Nov-01
Contract package No. 3     CAW         1             3             NCB            Jun-00             NA           Jul-00    Sep-00    Dec-01
Contract package No. 4     CAW         1            1.5            NCB            Jul-00             NA          Aug-00    Oct-00    Nov-02
Contract package No. 5     CAW         I             2             NCB            Aug-00             NA           Sep-00    Nov-00   Nov-03
Contract package No. 6     CAW         I             3             NCB            Sep-00             NA           Oct-00    Dec-00    Nov-03
iii. Regional Component (ICB)
Contract package I         CAW         6            28.8           ICB            Oct-01             Yes         Nov-01    May-01    Oct-03
(Krasnoyarsk )
Contract package 2         CAW         8             51            ICB            Oct-01             Yes         Nov-01    May-01    Oct-04
(Khabarovsk)
iv. Regional Component (NCB)
Contract package I     CAW        I              I            NCB            Sep-99             NA           Oct-99    Dec-99    Oct-01
(Krasnoyarsk )
Contract pakage 2     CAW         2            1.5            NCB            Oct-99             NA          Nov-99    Jan-01    Nov-01
(Krasnoyarsk )
Contract package 3     CAW         I            0.5           NCB            Nov-01             NA           Dec-01    Feb-01    Dec-02
(Krasnoyarsk )
Contract package 4     CAW        I              I            NCB            Sep-99             NA           Oct-99    Dec-99    Oct-00
(Khabarovsk)
Contract package 5     CAW        2             1.5           NCB            Oct-99             NA           Nov-99    Jan-01    Nov-00
(Khabarovsk)
Contract package 6     CAW         I            0.5           NCB            Nov-99             NA           Dec-02    Feb-02    Dec-02
(Khabarovsk)
Goods
i. Federal Component     G         1            0.3            ICB            May-99             NO           Jun-99    Dec-99    Apr-00
(Survey Equip.)
ii. Federal Component     G         5            1.7          INS/NS          Jun-01             NA           Jun-01     Jul-01    Dec-01
(Shopping)
Regional Component       (         3             1.0         INS/NS           Jun-99             NA           Sep-01    Oct-01    Dec-02
(Shopping)
Consultancy Services
Federal Component
Consult.cont.pkg ! (Wks.    CS       2             10           QCBS            Dec-98             NA           Feb-99    May-99    Oct-00
cont. pkg 1)
Consult.cont.pkg. 2 (Wks.    CS      2            14.3          QCBS            Dec-98             NA           Jan-99    Jan-99    Nov-01
cont. pkg 2)
Consult.cont.pkg. 3 (Wks.    CS      2             5.6           QCBS           Dec-98             NA           Feb-99    Jul-99    Oct-02
cont. pkg 3)
Consult.cont.pkg. 4 (Wks.    CS       1            2.5          QCBS            Jan-99             NA           Feb-99    May-99    Oct-03
cont. pkg 4)
Consult.cont.pkg. 5 (Wks.    CS      4            12.5          QCBS            Jan-99             NA           Mar-99    Jun-99    Oct-04
cont. pkg 5)



6
Regional Component
Consl.contpkg.forwks cont.  CS       2           2.5           QCBS          Dec-99             NA          Jun-01    Aug-01    Oct-03
pkgl (Krasno)
Consl.cont.pkg.2 for   CS        3            4.S          QCBS          Dec-99             NA          Jun-01    Aug-01    Oct-04
wks.cont. pkg 2 ((Khab)
CAW-Civil Works, G-Goods, CS-Consultancy Services, QCBS- Quality and Cost
Based Selection, TR- Training, IS-International Shopping, NS-National Shopping



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29208R
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
R S M.FEDERATION                                                                                                                    I
oSECOND HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT   Sea
MAIN ROAD NETWORK PROJECT ROADS                                                                                                       7
PARTICIPATING REGIONS            B   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
<I                                                                                   > '  RAAA  PROJECT ROADS               *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        'A,.d,P
.0 idNITED  l' ce 0F e-b i c r      e a                            MAIN FEDERAL ROADS                    RIVERS                                                                      k
NIED                                                                                                                                                                                                    >0-*e   '->,P
I%INGDOM                                                                                 -     OTHER FEDERAL ROADS                   OBLAST KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                     (
REGIONAL ROADS                       AUTONOMOUS OBSAST, OKRUG OR                                             /
REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
.     ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
N    0     0          ;     ;    t          5     [    !         C         S         X        :        t       -^        -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NORWAY                                                                                                                                                            Se /
N4THERILANDS DEMR         /'        S W  E D E N            r                                                                                                   o       p t e v       ,'                                                               o,Kmhk
DENMSWEDN                                   -SeA
;UNMARA  t                                                                                                                                                  C-; Odst Rof  Y    ,                                       ,,rknO-
GERMANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -A F I N L A N D  .r  ,f  X S r ^  ,  0 0'   -;: >-   ~   b n  PG  , w  . -
N L  A  N D                                                                                                                              
OLEMANY    .IN L A N D i                                                                                                                                                                                                                         'A 0  K    -y
MPr 0 L A N DA
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
T U F K E V  S '  4    !   A., b ,10  k    <                         p             r               F                                                                                       N A            WONAISOh:~~~~~~~~~~~~O., '
~~~~ASS  ARMN             I     TA    UP           Ib                                                                                                *                                                                        MogoophcLI     PAlPAps   pp.  k
>,~~~~~~~ AN>    I             S ~  P    &          j        yII P                                                                          0   1f_r Rpt   joIpDy0 304050MLEr
POA D             Ioot' ,~                                                                                                                                                                               
~~~~UNGARY  BELARU                                                                                                                                                                           -0,~~~P IIpPL
'_~~~~~~~~ SLAp                                    3" R5p  A                                                                                                                               -5                               0-.+  apa      .   f .\__>      
L ARAB RFP /,_,)Cx   qli --  $  !.   gUZSEKLSTAN tX   r2;r                      M  O  N  G  O  L I A                o    200   400   600   800 KILOMETERS  /   OF           NOVEMd/R0W9
d-~~~~~~~0plA                                                                                                  Mkly0 E'ss.
~ 7   U    K   R A I N E                          K''y         p
Z r             C'~~~~~~r~   k.   Q,\AlI                                                                                                                                                                                                             /...lkx
'-S  \l/  toME  o                                                                                         Al'                   1>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~JAPAN
S7ASIB                                                                                               /             ~~Y~J-t'.    A   IlL
N- ...   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~M-y,k'                              mspQ
M~~~~~~~~~~~-A 5                                                                    0kp,A9.
A-,b                                           F, -                                                                                                                  t\ ON.kh-  L
GEORGIA  A,lrl ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~""                         A                                              I, 0                                                                          VCIN
TUKE ,GORIA  1         ,AAl~         ,      "                                                        '\ /'                                                                                          Y.>   
0                                                                                                                                                     C H I N               k7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< 
N.  ARMYNIA  )~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Rfl ~~K A ZA  K H S T AN                                                     G-o                                                 VS      -
A 11SM.hlhkl.                                                                              Aho01  
SL' AM cRP                                                                                                                                  1                                            U0  125  2UU     600 AUG    ILDETR
OFIN"' IE RAN/                                        "0A,C                                                                                                                                    C    4C ALECKOICS                  UP
"AZERBA  ~           /                                                                        -o5-'M                           O0N   GO        IAORE
ARAB BYP ~~~~~~  p  ' ~~UZBEKISTAN\                                                                                 >                                                                                                     OE



