Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4427 RU
Loan Agreement
(Second Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 26, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4427 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1999, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
Parts B and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Participating 
Regions (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Participating Regions a part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided 
in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Federal Road Fund” means the fund established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 1759-1, dated October 18, 1991, entitled “Road Funds in the Russian 
Federation”, and includes any addenda and amendments thereto;
(b)
“Indigenous Peoples” means the ethnic minorities defined as “small 
indigenous peoples” or “indigenous minorities of the North and Siberia” in the 
Borrower’s Law No. 78-F2, dated June 19, 1996, entitled: “Framework for the 
Governmental Regulation of the Social and Economic Development of the Russian 
Federation Northern Region”; 
(c)
“Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plans” means the plans referred to in 
paragraph 9 (a) of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Participating Regions” means collectively the following two regions of 
the Borrower (subjects of the Russian Federation):  Krasnoyarsk Krai and Khabarovsk 
Krai; and “Participating Region” means each and any such region;
(e)
“Participating Region PIUs” means collectively project implementation 
units to be established by each Participating Region pursuant to paragraph 11(b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement or any successors thereto; and “Participating Region PIU” 
means each and any such PIU;
(f)
“Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means collectively the 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each Participating Region 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Participating Region Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements; and “Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means each and 
any such agreement, and the term “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided to a 
Participatory Region under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit (Dorinvest), established by 
RFHA (as hereinafter defined) under the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project 
(Loan No. 3706 RU), or any successor thereto; 
(h)
“Project Account” means the bank account referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“RFHA” means the Russian Federal Highway Administration, an agency of the 
Borrower, and includes any successor thereto; and 
(j)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred million Dollars ($400,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
(b) 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars separate special deposit 
accounts: (i) Special Account A -- for the purposes of Parts A and C.1 of the Project; 
and  (ii) Special Accounts B and C for each respective Participating Region -- for the 
purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project; in a bank or banks acceptable to the Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum. 
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project through the RFHA and PIU; (ii) shall cause 
each of the Participating Regions to carry out Parts B and C.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and (iii) shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project and cause the Participating Regions to carry 
out Parts B and C.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend $55,000,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating 
Regions under separate subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Participating Region (the Participating Region Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, 
including but not limited to the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by 
each 
Participating Region in Dollars to the Borrower in 
equal semiannual 
installments over fifteen (15) years, 
including a grace period of five (5) 
years; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by each 
Participating 
Region shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined 
as of the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) of the value 
of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan Account 
or paid out of their respective Special 
Account on account 
of expenditures for Parts B and C.2 of the Project;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
of 150-250 basis 
points above the rate payable by the Borrower to the 
Bank under Section 2.05 
of this Agreement; and  
(iv)
the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 
to this 
Agreement.   
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Participating Region 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Participating Region 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  5
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall and shall cause each of the Participating 
Regions to establish and maintain a financial management system including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection 
with the carrying out of their respective Parts of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall and shall cause each of the Participating Regions: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. By June 30 each year commencing in 1999 and until completion of 
the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an audit report of the Federal 
Road Fund’s financial statements for the preceding calendar year.   
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the Participating Regions shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  6
that any of the Participating Regions will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.   
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, the Borrower has opened a Project Account with an initial 
deposit in local currency equivalent to at least five hundred thousand Dollars 
($500,000) pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuriy Dmitryevich Maslyukov 
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
56%
(a) under Part A of
267,250,000
the Project
(b) under Part B of
 46,550,000
the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) under Part A of
  2,000,000
of local expendi-
the Project
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
(b) under Part B of
  1,000,000
local expenditures
the Project
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' Services
100%
Training and Studies
(a) under Part C.1 of
 44,900,000
the Project
(b) under Part C.2 of
  7,300,000
the Project
(4)
Operating Costs
(a) under Part C.1(b)
    850,000
100%
of the Project
(b) under Part C.2(b)
    150,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
 30,000,000
TOTAL
400,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  8
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental operating costs incurred in 
connection 
with audits required to be carried out under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1998; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1(b), 2(b), 3(b) and 4(b) 
in respect of each Participating Region, unless the Bank has received satisfactory 
evidence that the respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become 
effective and that it has been duly authorized and is legally binding upon the parties 
thereto in accordance with its terms.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent, (ii) works under contracts not exceeding $3,000,000 
equivalent, (iii) services under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in case 
of firms and under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent in case of individuals, 
and (iv) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the technical condition of 
selected high priority roads and bridges on the federal and regional road system; (ii) 
to facilitate the improvement in the management of the road networks; (iii) to assist 
the Borrower and Participating Regions in the reform of the institutional structure of 
road administration and the contracting industry; (iv) to further develop the private 
road constructing and consulting industries, including the use of competitive bidding 
in public procurement; and (v) to improve the efficiency in the use of local resources 
employed in road works based upon better economic selection of projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Federal Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Program 
1.
Rehabilitation of about 900 kilometers of selected federal road segments. 
2.
Rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement and widening of about 28 
selected federal road bridges. 
3.
Provision of vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies required for the 
increased management of roads and bridges.
Part B:
Regional Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Program 
1.
Rehabilitation of about 40 kilometers of selected road segments in Participating 
Regions. 
2.
Rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement and widening of about 40 
selected road bridges in Participating Regions.
Part C:
Technical Assistance
Page  9
1.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for strengthening of the 
federal road and bridge management administration, including: (a) support to the PIU 
of RFHA in procurement and implementation of the Project;  (b) training of RFHA staff 
in project management and in environmental aspects of road and bridge management; and 
(c) carrying out of relevant economic, financial, environmental and social studies for 
project effectiveness and preparation of follow-up road rehabilitation projects, 
including preparation of the Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plans for the 
Tobolsk-Khanty-Mansyisk road segment pursuant to paragraph 9 (a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Regions for strengthening 
their road and bridge management administration, including: (a) support of the 
extension of the road and bridge management systems developed by RFHA to road 
administrations of Participating Regions; (b) support to the Participating Regions 
PIUs  in procurement and implementation of the Project; (c) training of the staff of 
each Participating Regions PIU in project planning, procurement, financial control and 
administration of road works; and (d) carrying out of relevant economic, financial, 
environmental and social studies for preparation of follow-up road rehabilitation 
projects.   
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
    (in Dollars)*
April 15, 2004
16,665,000
October 15, 2004
16,665,000
April 15, 2005
16,665,000
October 15, 2005
16,665,000
April 15, 2006
16,665,000
October 15, 2006
16,665,000
April 15, 2007
16,665,000
October 15, 2007
16,665,000
April 15, 2008
16,665,000
October 15, 2008
16,665,000
April 15, 2009
16,665,000
October 15, 2009
16,665,000
April 15, 2010
16,665,000
October 15, 2010
16,665,000
April 15, 2011
16,665,000
October 15, 2011
16,665,000
April 15, 2012
16,665,000
October 15, 2012
16,665,000
April 15, 2013
16,665,000
October 15, 2013
16,665,000
April 15, 2014
16,665,000
October 15, 2014
16,665,000
April 15, 2015
16,665,000
October 15, 2015
16,705,000
TOTAL
      400,000,000
      ===========
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Page  10
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works: (a) under Part A of the Project which are estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$15,000,000 equivalent; and (b) under Part B of the Project which are estimated to 
cost less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $9,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods: (a) for Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent; 
and (b) for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods: (a) for Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent; and (b) for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
Page  11
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent 
for each Participating Region, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts C.1 (a) and C.1 (b) of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the  
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of  
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for design, supervision and preparation of 
bidding documents, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  12
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
or Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for services for design, supervision and 
preparation of bidding documents, the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than October 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU within RFHA with adequate staff, funds, 
facilities, and other resources required for carrying out of Parts A and C.1 of the 
Project efficiently.
3.
The Borrower shall: (i) open a Project bank account (Project Account) in a bank 
with an initial deposit in local currency equivalent to at least $500,000; (ii) within 
twelve (12) months of the effectiveness of this Agreement, and until completion of the 
Project, maintain said Project Account with a minimum balance, through quarterly 
replenishments equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) or such other amount as 
may be agreed by the Bank from time to time; and (iii) use the funds of said Project 
Page  13
Account exclusively for financing the implementation of Parts A and C.1 of the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall, within one month after the end of each calendar quarter, 
commencing from December 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank a quarterly progress report on 
the implementation of Parts A and C.1 of the Project for the previous quarter in form 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
By May 31 each year commencing in 1999 and until completion of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause RFHA to furnish to the Bank copy of its Annual Report for the 
preceding year, which shall include, inter alia, information on: (i) the conditions of 
the borrower’s federal road network; (ii) the road maintenance, rehabilitation, 
reconstruction and construction works completed during the previous year, including 
the amount spent in each category; and (iii) the federal road works planned for the 
current year. 
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that, by December 31, 2000, all road construction, 
reconstruction and rehabilitation for RFHA and for each Participating Region will be 
subject to competitive bidding. 
7.
The Borrower shall ensure that, by December 31, 2000, all road construction and 
reconstruction works financed from federal and participating regions’ budgets will be 
subject to economic feasibility.  
8.
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, any changes to 
the list of roads and bridges selected for the inclusion in the Project shall be 
subject to the Bank’s approval, and such roads and bridges shall be selected in 
accordance with the criteria agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, upon 
completion by the Borrower of the economic assessment and environmental and 
resettlement screening for the proposed roads and bridges in accordance with the 
guidelines agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank. 
9.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, the commencement 
of any work in the Tyumen - Tobolsk road segment of the Project shall be subject to 
the preparation of the Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plan, acceptable to the Bank, for 
the Tobolsk - Khanty-Mansiysk road segment.  Said plan shall ensure that the design 
and implementation of any road rehabilitation works on the Tobolsk - Khanty-Mansiysk 
road segment, which the Borrower might undertake irrespective of this Project, shall 
be carried out taking into account and adequately addressing the needs and cultural 
preferences of the Indigenous Peoples.
(b)
Any road rehabilitation works on the Tobolsk - Khanty-Mansyisk road 
segment shall be undertaken in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples Mitigation Plan.
10.
The Borrower shall:
 (a)
During each year of the execution of the Project, commencing in 1999, 
take all necessary measures to make available funds for the purpose of maintenance, 
repair, and rehabilitation of the federal road network in accordance with its priority 
road expenditure program; and
(b)
The Borrower shall undertake all measures to increase road taxes to be 
paid by heavy trucks so as to ensure that they contribute a significant proportion of 
their attributable costs.
11.
The Borrower shall, under the respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, cause each Participating Region, inter alia, to:
(a)
declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, to carry out Parts B and C.2 of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Parts B and C.2 of the Project;
(b)
as a condition of effectiveness of the respective Participating Regions 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, establish and maintain a Participating Region PIU in its 
Page  14
respective road administration, with adequate staff, funds, facilities, and other 
resources required for carrying out of Parts B and C.2 of the Project efficiently.
(c)
within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar quarter, furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank a quarterly progress report on the implementation of 
Parts B and C.2 of the Project for the previous quarter in form and detail 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(d)
after one year of the date of effectiveness of its respective 
Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement, carry out a review, in consultation 
with the Borrower and the Bank, for evaluating the overall progress in the 
implementation of Parts B and C.2 of the Project and adopting such measures as may be 
necessary to resolve any issues in respect thereof;
(e)
as a condition of effectiveness of its respective Participating Region 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, open a Project bank account for the purposes of Parts B and 
C.2 of the Project with an initial deposit in the currency of the Borrower equivalent 
to at least $100,000 and, until completion of the Project, maintain the said account 
with a minimum balance, through quarterly replenishments, equivalent to at least 
$300,000 or such other amount as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank from time 
to time;
(f)
duly perform all its obligations under its respective Participating 
Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank may 
otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its Participating Region Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof;
(g)
exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard to the progress 
of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under its 
respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan; and
(h)
promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B and C.2 of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by it of 
its obligations under its respective Participating Region Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a) and 
4(a) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in 
respect of Parts A and C.1 of the Project (Special Account A); and (ii) Categories 
1(b), 2(b), 3(b) and 4(b) as set forth in the said table in respect of Parts B and C.2 
of the Project (Special Accounts B and C for each respective Participating Region); 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A to $5,000,000; in the case 
of Special Account B to $1,000,000; and in the case of Special Account C to 
$1,000,000; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation for: 
(i)
Special Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to 
Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a) and 4(a) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General 
Page  15
Conditions for Parts A and C.1 of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; 
(ii)
Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to 
Categories 1(b), 2(b), 3(b) and 4(b) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General 
Conditions for Parts B and C.2 of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000; and
(iii)
Special Account C shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account allocated to 
Categories 1(b), 2(b), 3(b) and 4(b) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General 
Conditions for Parts B and C.2 of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of each Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish that Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
Page  16
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for that Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that Special Account, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that 
Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special 
Account shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
