Z1/           -1  -,t  0<  / - #s
Doc=unt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
:r~~~~A
*      . ..                                    RqpotN.. P-5852-AR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$170.0 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 4, 1992
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipiets only in the performance of
their offcial due  Its coatents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY BOUIVALENTS
Currency = Peso (P)
P1.00 = US$1.00
[exchange rate as of July 1, 1992 (fixed in March 1991)]
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weichts and measures
Metric System
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEU            Project Central Execution Unit
CEO            Chief Executive Officer of SUCCE
CFI            Federal Investment Council
(Consejo Federal de Inversiones)
EBY            Binational Entity Yacyreta
(Entidad Binacional de Yacyreta) (Argentine-Paraguayan Entity)
INCYTH         National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology
(Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hidrica)
PCs            Personal Computers
PEU            Provincial Executing Unit
SOES           Certified Statements of Expenditures
SUCCE          Emergency Central Coordination Subunit
(Subunidad Central de Coordinacion para la Emergencia)
SUPCE          Emergency Provincial Coordination Subunit
(Subunidad Provincial de Coordinacion para la Emergencia)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTTN
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ioan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:             The Argentine Republic.
Beneficiaries         Ministry of the Interior, and the Provinces of Buenos
Aires, Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones
and Santa Fe.
Amount:               US$170.0 million.
Terms:                Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relendincr Terms:     Approximately 2 percent of the Loan would assist the
Ministry              of Interior to direct flood rehabilitation operations,
and carry out studies on flood forecasting and measures
to cope with future flood emergencies. The remaining
proceeds would be onlent to seven provinces for carrying
out the rehabilitation works under the same terms and
conditior.s as the Bank loan.
Obiectives:           The objective of this program is to remedy the severe
damage                done by the heavy flooding in seven provinces earlier
this                  year.
Financing Plan:       Proiect Cost    Sub-    Duties& Total   Percent of
Cost
Source                Local   Fran    total   taxes   Cost    Project Total
National Govt.        40.0     0.0    40.0      20.9   60.9     15%    19%
Provincial Govts.     40.0     0.0    40.0      27.7   67.7     15%    21*
IBRD (Loan 3280-AR
Amendment)            10.0    10.0    20.0      0.0    20.0      7%      6*
IBRD Flood
Rehabilitation Loan   97.3    72.7   170.0      0.0   170.0     63*    53%
Total                187.3    82.7   270.0    48.6   318.6    100*    100*
Economic Rate of Return       Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Relort   -    Not Applicable
Mans                          Nos. IBRD 24059 and 24060
Note:   Totals may not add due to rounding.
Total physical contingencies are about 16* of base cost;
Price contingencies (foreign and local) are about 8* of base
cost plus physical contingencies.
This docutnent has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MIMORANDW( AND RECOMMBNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR A FLOOD REEABILITATION PROJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed loan to the Republic of Argentina for US$170.0
million equivalent. The proposed loan would help finance the critical needs of
the Government's rehabilitatiin program designed to remedy the damage caused
by the severe flooding in seven provinces earlier this year (see paragraph 2).
It would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
2.           Backa n.  By the end of 1991, unusually heavy rain began to
fall in the catchment areas ef the Parana, Paraguay, and Uruguay Rivers, which
ultimately peaked in April/Way 1992 at almost four times the yearly average.
This caused serious infrastructure damage and forced the evacuation of about
120,000 people from seven Argentine provinces--Buenos Aires, Chaco,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones, and Santa Fe. Although it is too
early to attempt a precise estimate, indications are that the damage may be on
the same order of magnitude as that caused by the 1983 flood, which cost about
US$1 billion to repair. Apart from the capital stock damage, Argentina will
also face substantial losses in productive output (mainly grains, livestock,
and cotton). Preliminary assessments already indicate agricultural losses of
about US$185 million. Renewed heavy rainfall following the initial downpours
could lead to even higher losses.
3.           This emergency comes at a critical moment when Argentina is
seeking to consolidate a much needed economic recovery following a long,
difficult period of economic adjustment. The positive growth rates achieved
in the last two years were accompanied by significant reductions in the
overall public sector deficit plus substantial balance-of-payments current
account improvements. The economy thus was on target to achieve further real
growth in 1992. Simultaneously, Argentina had just entered into an EFF
arrangement with the IMF and reached agreement with its commercial bank
creditors on a "Brady operation." The flood damage, however, will impair this
promising progress.
4.           The Government's efforts to maintain the present economic
recovery and improve its fiscal balance depend crucially on improvements in
provincial finances, a major source of deficits in the past. The provinces
affected by the floods together account for nearly half of national GDP. The
damage will slow economic growth in these provinces and, through iinkage
effects, dampen overall growth. In addition, slower growth in these provinces
will increase their fiscal deficits through lower tax collections and the
increased current expenditures necessitated for this emergency. The proposed
project, by rapidly reconstructing destroyed infrastructure and productive
capital, would restore the conditions of long-term growth in the provinces,
alleviate the burden on other sources of finance, and reinforce the integrity
of the macroeconomic program. At the same time, the proposed loan would help
the Government to finance provincial growth without recourse to the
inflationary tax. Supplementing Treasury resources for disbursement to the



-2-
provinces would also help advance discussions on reforming the revenue-sharing
formula.
S.          Strate v.  To cope with the disaster, the Central Government
established a national program. It first defined and launched relief and
rescue operations concentrated on evacuation of the affected population and
providina them with shelter, blankets and food. River defenses were fortified
in all cities and towns near the rivers; dikes and other embankments were
fortified. Second, the authorities requested the Bank to begin preparing a
program to foster the speedy recovery of the damaged infrastructare. In this
connection, under Argentina's resurgent federalism, the provinces are now
mainly responsible for physical infrastructure and the social sectors.
Accordingly, the Bank worked with provincial officials who undertook damage
assessments while they carried out relief operations in their areas. Third,
the Government identified the requirements for preventing the recurrence of
similar damage in the future and at the same time asked the Bank to help meet
them. Based on this strategy, the Bank immediately moved to prepare the
proposed flood rehabilitation project. It also initiated the identification of
a possible subsequent operation that would aim at improving the afflicted
provinces' preparedness to deal with severe flooding in an optimal manner.
Both were speedily accomplished.
6.           Project Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed project are
to help finance flood reconstruction needs in the seven afflicted provinces
and provide a sound institutional framework for coordination and
implementation of the overall Government rehabilitation program. The specific
project activities, designed to restore normal economic activity in the areas
affected, include assisting in the rehabilitation of essential transport
infrastructure, social infrastructure, and flood control works. It should be
noted that these are not designed to provide optimal protection against
possible recurrent severe flooding. For the latter possibility, technical
assistance would be provided under thlis project to prepare the way for longer-
term, flood forecasting and prevention.
7.           Proiect DescriTtion.  Project design is based on the Bank's
previous experience with similar reconstruction efforts elsewhere and Bank
norms for such circumstances. The proposed project will finance rehabilitation
investments in key infrastructure and equipment for: (a) transport and energy,
(24% of total base cost); (b) emergency flood control works (29.3% of total
base cost); (c) housing (lot of total base cost); (d) education and health
facilities (10.5t of total base cost); (e) water supply and drainage (7* of
total base cost); (f) additional requirements to be determined after final
damage assessment (16* of total base costs); (g) technical assistance to
strengthen the institutions involved in project implementation (2.5* of total
base cost); (h) flood forecasting and prevention of future disasters,
including technical assistance (0.6% of total base cost);
(a) Transport and Enerng: (i) rehabilitation works for roads,
urban streets, railroads, ports, and electricity distribution infrastructure
damaged by the floods or by the heavy traffic of construction equipment and
trucks used in the struggle to reinforce embankments against the surging flood



- 3 -
waters; (ii) replacement of destroyed electrical equipment; and (iii)
rehabilitation of roadside defenses.
(b) Emergencv Flood Control Works: (i) strengthening
embankiments that were either seriously eroded or nearly washed out; tii) the
replacement of dike sections in danger of collapsing; (iii) repair and
replacement of temporary structures used to divert river flows from
residential areas; and (iv) repair and replacement of pumping equipment to
evacuate flood and rainwater from urban areas below flood water levels.
(c) Hougin : reconstruction of homes destroyed or severely
damaged through a program of grants and self-help work for about 5,700 low-
income families who will rebuild their own units. The housing units, several
sections of which are prefabricated panels, would be 30 e@, with two bedrooms
and a multiuse room. They would be made of wood and built oQa stilts to reduce
future flood damage. The units provide more space and access than the
Government's present housing program at half the cost of its "least cost"
model. Vouchers would be furnished to cover the cost of obtaining building
materials (about US$3,700, or 85 percent of unit costs). The eligibility
criteria agreed are designed to ensu-e that beneficiaries are among the
poorest families. Special regulations agreed with the Government and included
in an annex to the Operational Manual (see paragraph 9 below and paras. 29 to
34 in the Technical Annex) cover the eligibility criteria, the houses' design,
monitoring and supervision requirements, and other measures to assure
transparency and accountability.
(d) Education and Health Facilities: rehabilitation of
education and health facilities to provide for the construction of new
buildings (also on stilts) to prevent damage by future floods. This would
provide a model for the local population and others in Argentina on how to
address their long term housing needs and minimize damage in the flood-prone
areas where they live.
(e) Water and Sewerace Servioes: reconstruction or
rehabilitation of water and sewerage structures, including water intakes;
water pumping stations; a water treatment plant; a water distribution system
for two cities; water wells; sewage pumping stations; sewage interceptors;
sewage collectors for eight cities; and a sewage oxidation pond.
(f) Additional Reauirements: During appraisal, the full brunt
of flood damage could not be ascertained, especially in the Province of Buenos
Aires, where the flood peak occurred only in early July 1992. Moreover,
there were indications that further flood surges could occur. Therefore, the
subprojects identified represent a partial inventory of the full extent of
damages. It was estimated necessary to set aside a sum for additional
requirements. An amount equivalent to US$22.7 million, or 16 percent of the
proposed project's base costs (close to the average amount of damages
identified in each province, excluding housing), are reserved for as yet
undesignated project activity. Proposals for possible subprojects would be
identified and evaluated by the SUPCES before January 31, 1993 and sent to the
Bank (see para. 9 below) for review and approval. Each proposed subproject



-4.
would be accompanied by supporting documentation as required by the
Operational Manual.
(g) Technical Assistance: Technical Assistance would be provided
to strengthen institutions involved in project implementation (see paragraph 9
below).
(h) Flood Forecastinu and Disaster Prevention : Heavy flooding
in the Parana River area of influence has consistently caused severe damage.
The authorities have thus recognized the importance of ensuring adequate
disaster prevention and mitigation measures and flood forecasting systems for
effectively responding to future disasters. They also see this disaster as an
appropriate opportunity to assess the adequacy of Argentina's institutional
capability for effectively mitigating future emergencies. US$ 250,000 of the
loan would consequently be provided for consultants to examine ths quality of
present mechanisms for monitoring, flood forecasting and "early warning"
preparedness. Simultaneously, the National Hydrological Institute (INCYTH)
would receive US$250,000 for purchasing updated equipment to improve its flood
forecasting capability. In addition, the proposed loan would finance studies
on the flooding records/patterns of the Parana River basin and the adequacy of
emergency-related legislation in Argentina. The proposed Loan Agreement
provides for consultation with the Bank within 18 months on the results of
these studies. Finally, funds would be included for the preparation within six
months of terms of reference for future studies regarding: (i) regional issues
concerning flooding in the Parana River basin, that also involves Paraguay,
Brazil and Bolivia; (ii) mechanisms to prevent flood losses that discourage
development (e.g., tax assessment practices), and (iii) insurance options as a
way of spreading flood losses over a period of time and across larger groups
than those directly impacted by any given flood.
8.           Proiect Desicn.  The project design incorporates the lessons of
Bank-assisted reconstruction activities in other countries. Notable aspects
include: (a) well defined repair and reconstruction works; (b) strong
Government and beneficiary commitments; (c) a well-structured institutional
framework and clearly defined responsibilities for coordination and
implementation at project commencement; and (d) simplified procurement
arrangements (see paras 53 to 59 of the Technical Annex). Project activities
are restricted to vital repair and reconstruction operations that can be
completed in 24 months. The authorities have assigned national priority to
mitigating the flood damage. Also they intend to mobilize strong commitment
from the intended beneficiaries, e.g., by having the affected residents do the
proposed housing reconstruction themselves. Government-Bank collaboration,
reflected in the speedy preparation of the proposed project, suggests a
favorable environment for effectively overcoming the flood disaster damage.
S.           Project Imnlementation.  The organizational arrangements for the
project are designed to: (a) obtain speedy implementation; (b) maximize the
use of existing provincial capability; (c) obtain effective accountability and
precautions against misappropriation of funds; and (d) provide close oversight
of project works. The project would be implemented withirn the Government's
organizational fraiiework for the Provincial Development Project (Loan 3820-AR)



as amended. As in this loan, all operations will be managed by the Ministry of
Interior's Secretariat of Provincial Reform. This project's central and
provincial units would carry out the proposed project. Organizationally,
these units are well placed to take on the new tasks and implement them
quickly; however, they needed some reinforcement. In this regard, through
amendments to the Loan 3280-AR, a small subsidiary (SUCCE) of the Provincial
Development Project's central execution unit (CEU) has been created.
Similarly, at the provincial level, new subunits (SUPCES) have been
established within the provincial execution unirs (PEU). These are intended
to facilitate this project's implementation by providing sufficient autonomy
of action, as well as full transparency and accountability. The PEUs, through
the SUPCEs will be responsible for all procurement, contracting, and
submission of disbursement applications. SUCCE staff will include consultants
specialized in highways, flood control, housing, and education and health
facilities, as well as related equipment. Structurally, the SUPCEs are
similar to the SUCCE. The SUCCE has a procurement expert who provided advice
and training to the SUPCES. An Operational Manual, agreed with the Bank, will
provide guidance and establish standards for all aspects of project
implementation. In addition, because of the exceptional features of this
assistance, the Government has hired a supervisory engineer, who will maintain
ongoing surveillance of project activities and will report directly to the
Secretariat of Provincial Reform while keeping the Bank fully informed.
10.      Procurement.  Procurement procedures for eligible emergency
subprojects have been simplified in line with Bank guidelines to
facilitate speedy project implementation in such operations. Because of the
small size of contracts and the scattered distribution of repair and
reconstruction works in seven provinces, contracts for civil works are to be
procured under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. Goods estimated to
cost US$250,000 equivalent or more per contract, totalling about US$2.0
million, will be procured through Limited International Bidding. Civil works
estimated to cost US$1.0 million equivalent or more but not to exceed US$5.0
million per contract, totalling about US$80.0 million, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$250,000 and civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of US$1.0 million will be contractad on the basis of a
comparison of price quotations from three suppliers or contractors, eligible
under Bank guidelines. These contracts would amount, in the aggregate, to
US$21.8 million for goods and US$80.0 million for works. Under special
circumstances, which should be justified to the Bank, civil works contracts
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$1 million, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$20.0 million, may be procured through direct contracting.
Emergency civil works may be carried out by provinces through force account,
not to exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the total cost of the eligible
emergency subprojects carried out by such province. Consultant contracts
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 shall only require the
prior review by the Bank of their respective terms of reference; those
relating to technical assistance by the central execution unit (CEU) shall be
reviewed ex ante by the Bank.



-6-
11.         Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's underlying purpose in
Argentina at this time of national emergency is to keep the economy on track
during the rapid implementation of the rehabilitation effort. A second
purpose, in view of limited governmental administrative capacities in this
regard, is to help implement the proposed emergency-type operations in a
systematic and cost-effective fashion, drawing on extensive international
experience. In add.'tion, the Bank's participation is intended to assist the
Goverrnment in mobilizing collateral financing from other external sources for
possible additional rehabilitation needs that have not yet been identified, or
longer term flood control purposes.
12.          Environmental Imnact. Since all investments are in
reconstruction of existir.g infrastructure, no negative environmental effects
are expected. There are storeral positive enviroz=ental consequences of the
proposed project, including restoration of damaged health facilities to deal
with the increase in health problems related to the floods, including an
increased incidence of cholera. Prompt repair of water and sewerage systems
will help restore adequate water disposal facilities, and overcome water
contamination. New and some rehabilitated piping will help reactivate safe
sewage disposal. These systems and the flood control works will greatly
improve the urban environment now and in the future. Detailed design of the
water and sewer systems will be subject to local environmental assessment,
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
13.          Estimated Co,ts and Financing Plan.  Total project cost is
estimated at US$270.0 million, net of duties and taxes, with a foreign
exchange component of US$82.7 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$170.0
million would finance about 63% of the estimated project costs. The
reallocation of US$20 million from loan 3280-AR (Provincial Development
Project) which has been already approved by the Executive Directors
(Memorandum R 92-149, dated August 3, 1992) is enabling the Government to
begin the most urgent flood damage repairs and to strengthen the institutional
framework. This would meet 7% of project costs. It was agreed with the
Government that it would be inadvisable to reallocate funds from other loans
so as to maintain the momentum of ongoing operations and the related policy
reforms. The Federal Gomernment and the seven provinces would finance the
remaining 30t (US$80.0 million) in addition to taxes and duties estimated at
US$48.6 million. US$34.0 million of the Bank loan (20V) would be used for
retroactive financing of works begun after June 16, 1992 in accordance with
procedures similar to those of the Bank procurement guidelines. A summary of
project cost and financing is presented in Schedule A. Pro-urement amounts,
the proportion of expenditures to be financed, and the disbursement schedule
are given in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events is
included in Schedule C. Statements of Bank loans and IFC investments are
presented in Schedule D.
14.          Except for approximately two percent of the loan that would
finance institutional development and studies in the national Ministry of
Interior, all proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to participating
provinces, with each province's portion of statutory revenue sharing of
Federal tax proceeds serving as a guarantee for repayment. For this onlending,



the Ministry of Economy would enter into a Financial Agency Agreement with an
appropriate financial institution (Financial Agent), satisfactory to the Bank,
as a condition of effectiveness (para. 62 of the Technical Annex).   The
execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and at least
three provinces and the issuance of the final version of the Operational
Manual (as agreed with the Bank) governing all aspects of project
implementation and providing the required complementary authority for
contracting and procurement arrangements would also be conditions of
effectiveness. The terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements
would be the same as the Bank loan, including the foreign exchange risk. The
Subsidiary Loan Agreements would also stipulate that each participating
province would pay part of the loan commitment fee in direct proportion to its
share of estimated expenditures for repair works and technical assistance.
After project completion, there would be a reevaluation of the amounts paid by
the provinces and a redistribution based on their actual receipts of Bank
funds.
15.          Actions AQreed. To expedite project initiation, the Federa
Government and the participating provinces have already completed several
important actions. It should be noted that these arrangements have been
substantially advanced by the Government. The Bank and the Goaernment have
agreed on the Provincial Development Project amendmfnts referred to in paras 9
and 13 above. In particular, resolutions have been issued establishing SUCCE
and the SUPCNs and providing them with staff and equipment. Other resolutions
have put into effect a first version of the Operational Manual. The
consultants needed to advise SUCCE have been hired, and auditing arrangements
confirmed. It was agreed that the following would be conditions of
effectiveness: (a) the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least
three provinces; (b) the signing of a Financial Agency Agreement with an
appropriate financial institution; and (c) the adoption of a final version of
the Operational Manual. It was also agreed: (a) that the Bank would receive
every four months a report on the progress of the project; (b) In October of
1993 there would be a mid-term review on the progress of project
implementation and the attainment of stated objectives; (c) proposals for
possible additional subprojects would be identified and evaluated before
January 31, 1993 and sent to the Bank for review and approval, accompanied by
supporting documentation as required by the Operational Manual; (d) there
would be consultations within 18 months with the Bank on the results of the
studies on the flooding records/patterns of the Parana River Basin and the
adequacy of emergency-related legislation in Argentina, and terms of reference
for other required studies would be prepared within six months.
16.          Benefits and Risks. The main economic benefits of the proposed
project would be (a) the restoration of the damaged infrastructure essential
for the welfare of the population; and (b) the resurgence of economic
production in the affected provinces. The early repair and restoration of
flood defenses are essential to prevent future damage and loss of production
from flooding until they are fully rehabilitated. This is considered
sufficiently irportant to justify the short-term nature of the proposed
investments. Firthermiore, the proposed project would improve the Government's
capability to react to future possible flood disasters by providing valuable



8 a-
experience to and strengthening the institutions involved, by improving the
early warning system and by developing studies on non-structural mechanisms to
deal with floods. There are four main risks: (a) time and cost overruns could
result from complicated natural conditions in the post-disaster period
impacting project works; (b) inadequate management and control of the
rehabilitation program because of administrative weaknesses in seven provinces
with little or no experience in projects of this nature and (c) given that the
project only includes repairs/restoration, there is no assurance of complete
protection against recurrent severe flooding; and (d) possible abuses of the
voucher system in the housing component. To reduce these risks, the project
will consist of short-term works to try to avert unduly complicated and
lengthy undertakings. The reliance on the Ministry of Interior's national
network and the strengthened Provincial Development Project framework should
help reduce gearing up to the task, facilitating effective management. A
full-time, independent supervising engineer and the availability of a
procurement expert should also help strengthen project implementation. A
possible subsequent operation could aim at improving the afflicted provinces'
preparedness to deal with severe flooding in an optimal manner (see paragraph
5 above). With regard to the housing component and its voucher system, the
project design includes agreed regulations based on the Bank's experience with
similar projects, including targetting of beneficiaries, monitoring, and
supervision measures, to ensure transparency and accountability. Finally, an
implementation schedule would facilitate supervision and possib:.e adjustments
after a mid-term review.
17.          Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan will
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 4, 1992



-9
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJEf
Estimated Co0ts and  inaniina Plan
Local   Foreign  Total       Foreign as
---- (US$Nillion) ----      % of total
Estimatad Cost
Transport and Energy                  30.8       21.2    51.9           41%
iousing                               21.1        0.0    21.1            0%
Emergency Flood Control works         38.2       25.5    63.7           40%
Education Facilities                  17.5        0.0    17.5            0*
Health Facilities                      5.1        0.0     5.1            0%
Water Supply and Drainage              7.5        7.6    15.1           50t
Institution Development                5.4        0.8     6.2           13%
Expected Non-appraised Projects       22.7       12.7    35.4           36*
Base Cost                148.2       67.7   215.9           31%
Physical Contingencies                  23.2       11.6    34.8
Price Contingencies                     15.9        3.5    19.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     187.3       82.7    270.0
Financing Plan:        Proiect Cost    Sub-    Duties& Total   Percent ofCost
Source                 Local    rn    total   taxes   Cost    Proiect Total
National Government   40.0      0.0    40.0    20.9    60.9    15*        19%
Provincial Govermts   40.0      0.0    40.0    27.7    67.7    15*       21%
IBRD (Loan 3280-AR
Amendment)             10.0    10.r    20.0      0.0    20.0      7*       6%
IBRD Flood
Rehabilitation I-an   97.3    72.7   170.0       0.0   170.0    63*       53%
Total                 187.3    82.7   270.0    48.6   318.6  iQQk    100%
Note:   Totals may not add due to rounding.
Total physical contingencies are about 16* of base cost;
Price contingencies (foreign and local) are about 8* of base
cost plus physical contingencies.



- 10 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Method l/
(US$ million)
Local
Category                          LCB         Shopping       Other 2/    Total
Civil Works                     80.0          80.0           49.7       209.7
(49.2)       (49.2)         (30.5)      (128.9)
Equipment                                     21.8            2.0         23.8
12.3)          (1.1)      (13.4)
Tecnmical Assistance            --            --             11.3         11.3
(10.8)      (10.8)
Housing Grants                  --            --             25.2         25.2
(16.9)      (16.9)
TOTAL                   80.0         101.8           88.2       270.0
(of which Bank)             (49.2)        (61.5)         (59.3)     (170.0)3/
Notes:   /   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan.
/2  "Other" includes: (a) limited direct contracting (for about
US$20.0 million and execution by force account (for about US$29.7
million) for civil works; (b) Limited International Bidding for
goods; (c) hiring of consultants; and (d) housing grants.
/3 In addition, US$20.0 million was reallocated from Loan 3280-AR
Amendment, as follows:
Civil Works         $16.0 million
Equipment            $3.0 million
Tech. Assistance    $0.5 million
Housing grants       $0.5 million



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Disbursement
Amount of Lorn
Loan Category        Allocated             Percent of Expenditure
(US$ million)             to be financed
Civil Works          108.3           85* of expenditures made on or before
December 31, 1992, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$ $20.0 million and 68% thereafter
Equipment             11.3           100* of foreign expenditures; and 85% of
local expenditures, made on or before
December 31, 1992, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$4.7 million and 51% thereafter
Technical Assistance  10.8           100V
Housing Grants        16.9           85% of the amounts disbursed under the
respective Housing Grant on or before
December 31, 1992, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$10.0 million and 56% thereafter
Unallocated           22.7
TOTAL     170.0
Estimated Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank Year         FY3    FY94   FY95
Annual             68.0   85.0   17.0
Cumulative        68.0   153.0  170.0



- 12 -
Schedule C
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)         Time taken to prepare: two months
(b)         Prepared by: Government with Bank assistance
(c)         First mission: June 15 to July 4, 1992
(d)         Appraisal mission departure: June 15, 1992
(e)         Negotiations: August 24 to August 26 1992
(f)         Planned date of effectiveness: October 30, 1992
(g)         List of relevant PCRs and PPARs: None



- 13 -
ARGENTINA                                 Sdwdu
Statement of Bank Loans                        Page 1 of 2
(as of June 30. 1992)
Loan or     Fiscal    Borrower   Purpose          Amount less  Amount (less Undisbursed  Undisbursed
Credit      Year                                  cancelWaons) pending    (6/30192)   (less pending
Number                                                        cancelaions)            cancellations)
(US$million)
Fully disbursed loans (30)                        3.167.7                    0.0
2592       1988       YPF        Gas Utilization &
Tech. Assistance   180.0                   42.1
2641       1986       Argentina   Water Supply       60.0                   36.7
2751       1987       Argentina   Power Engineeri.   14.0                    0.2
2793       1987       Argentina   Small & Med
Scale Cr            85.5       (63.9)      21.6-        (0.0)
2805       1987       Argentina   sahia Blanca       50.0**      (7.2)      42.8**       (0.0)
2854       1987       Argentinu   Power
Distribution      276.0                   177.0
292b       1988       Argentina   Municipal Dev.    120.0                  102.3
2970       1988       BANADE    Agricult. Cred.     106.5                    1.0
2984       1989       Argentina   Social Sector      28.0                   13.0
2997       1989       Argendna   Housing Sector     300.00*     (29.4)     270.6-        (0.0)
3015       1989       Argenrna.  Tax Admin. T.A.      6.5                    1.5
3280       1991       Argentina   Provinc. Develop.    200.0               195.5
3281       1991       Argentina   Water Supply      100.0                  100.0
3291       1991       Argentina.  PERAL             300.0                  148.4
3292       1991       Argentina   PEREL              23.0                   18.4
3297       1991       Argonina   Agricul. Serv.      33.5                   30.9
3362       1991       Argndina   Pub Sector
Reform T.A.         23.0                   20.0
3394       1991       Argentina   Pub Sector
Reforn (PSRL)                 325.0                  162.5
3416       1992       YPF
Sociedad    Hydrocarbon Engr   28.0                   28.0
Anonima
3460 y     1992       Argendna   Second Tax
Admin. T.A.                    20.0                   20.0
TOTAL                                              6446.7    (5,111.7)
of whbch has been repaid                          1661.0
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                             3,785.7    (3,450.7)
AMOUNT SOLD                                          12.8
of which has boen repaid                            12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA (with cancellaton)    3,772.9    (3,437.9)
TOTAL UNDISSURSED (with cancelons)                                        1432.5      (1097.5)
**Loans In process of canCellaion:
Loans:     (estimate in
US$million)
2793-AR     21.6
2805-AR     42.8
2997-AR    270.6
JiNot yet signed.



.0     ;.l #   °  $!'2  . 58  S Sig  5              15'''''''                                 -  5 'V'
0*
|    iej      | "  2iii  touq4.       a |@  qJ       °   a ' '   o -s~.  '1S"°   |a| 0       | 
4eil  ;,X   Og ,* 5t8**                   It    I         :1
3 1111 fi  5t}    d Ifl}jj        "           g j    1. Jo         'S                     I            }!!t|§E.X3|5§g i  I 
I-l§E  4lES-}Xl-IElllllllllW5WS-gllISll!iFIl§ZgZl7 i4i
S  i. o8I,,ia6r.a   Ai1C  t£C~.'t
la~03                         5     11                         f1
-----------------------                         az-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 15 -
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNCAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Paae Ng.,
A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              16
The Parana River Basin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
The 1992 Flood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
B. Central and Provincial Government's Response to the Flooding   17
C. The Bank's Response and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . .              18
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             18
Transport and Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             18
Formosa   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Misiones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             19
Corrientes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             20
Chaco   .   .   .  .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  20
Entre Rios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             21
Santa  Fe   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Emergency Flood Control Works  . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
Present situation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
Housing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Education Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             25
Health Facilites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             26
Water and Sewerage Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             26
Additional Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
Tec xical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
Flood Forecasting and Disaster Prevention  . . . . . .             27
Support under the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28
D. Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              28
E. Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             30
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
Accounts and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             32
F. Environmental and Social Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . .              32
Reporting and  Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             32
Actions Agreed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             33



- 16 -
ARGE4TINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TSCHNICAL ANNEX
A.Background
The Parant River Basin
1. The Parana River basin, located between latitude 160 and 34O South,
encompasses an important area of Brazil and Argentina, the whole of Paraguay
and part of Bolivia, with a total area of 2,600,000 km2. The main tributary
of the Parana River is the Paraguay River with a basin covering an area of
1,095,000 kniz, of which about a third belongs to Brazil, another third to
Paraguay, and a sixth to both Argentina and Bolivia. The river runs for about
2,500 km from its origins in southwestern Brazil, until joining the Parana
north of Corrientes (Argentina), after receiving the waters of the Pilcomayo
and Bermejo Rivers, which flow from the Bolivian highlands. The Uruguay
River, also originating in Brazil, flows almost parallel to the Parana until
joining it in its delta, northeast of Buenos Aires.
2. The Parana River begins at the confluence of the Paranaiba and Grande
Rivers. Its width varies dramatically from 4,000 m north of Guaira Falls to
60 m below these falls. Near Posadas, in Argentina, its width ranges between
150 and 2,500 m. Downstream of Posadas, the river flows through a series of
islands, covering a 25 km-wide area. The river is 4.2 km wide at Corrientes,
2.6 km at Bella Vista, and 2.3 km near Santa Fe. However, its flood plain
gradually increases, especially over its right bank, which is lower. The
width of this flood plain varies between 13 km near Corrientes to about 56 km
near Rosario-Victoria. The delta of the river is 18 km wide at its beginning,
growing to a width of about 60 km. Then, through its numerous branches, the
Parana flows into the River de la Plata.
3. The average precipitation in the Paran& River basin varies between 200
mm per year in the western part, the mountain range of the Andes, and 2,000 mm
in the southeastern part, consisting of the Iguazfi River basin. The rains are
almost incessant during the year in the southern and southeastern parts of the
basin. This rainfall distribution produces high river flows in the Parana
that begin in October/November and peak between February and June/July.
The 1992 Flood
4. As in most flood years, torrential downpours in the Brazilian part of
the Paranr River Basin between January and Nay 1992 produced massive flows in
the Parana River.  In addition, heavy rains in the middle to lower Paraguay
River basin during March and May led to peak flows in this river that were
coincident with the peak flows of the Parana River. Thus the resulting
disaster.
5. Records of ParanA River flows exist since 1901. There are historical
references to serious floods in 1612, 1712, 1748 and 1878. The first recorded
flood occurred in 1905, for which a peak flow of 45,000 m3/s was registered,



- 17 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 2 of 18
or three times the average yearly flow. The initial data on the 1992 flood
indicate that the peak flow was about 56,000m3\s, hence its seriousness.
6   The 1992 flood will be recorded as one of the area's worst. The most
seriously affected regions include large areas of seven Argentine provinces
(Formosa, Mis-ones, Chaco, Entre Rios, Corrientes, Santa Fe, and Buenos
Aires), as well as areas in Paraguay, Brazil, and Uruguay. Although it is too
early to attempt a precise damage estimate of the consequences of the 1992
flood, there are indications they may be of the same order of magnitude as
the 1983 flood, or about US$1 billion.
7.   The flood damage appears most serious in the transportation sector
(including roads, railways, and river ports) and housing sector, including
public and private buildings, and especial.y modest houses of low-income
groups. According to preliminary estimates, agriculture losses are about
US$185 million. (Statistical information on population and gross provincial
product of the provinces affected by the flood is included as Attachment 3).
B. Central and Provincial Governments' Response to the Floodinc
8.   The Central Government began to receive information about the
damage caused by the flood at the end of May 1992. On June 4, the Executive
Authority issued Decree No. 881 declaring the northeast of Argentina a
"disaster zone" in the wake of severe flooding, and established a "Crisis
Committee" within the Ministry of Interior, to coordinate asistance the
Central Government would provide to the provinces. The Committee included the
Ministers of Interior, Economy and Public Works, Defense, and Health and
Social Action, the Undersecretary of Internal Security, and representatives of
the Army, Police, and Coast Guard. The Committee established a program of
relief and reconstruction. As a first priority it was charged with the
distribution of about US$16.0 million to the provinces as well as the services
involved in the emergency operations. Assistance from the Red Cross and
Caritas and other donors was transported to the provinces by the Air Force.
The National Directorate of Social Emergencies of the Ministry of Social
Welfare sent emergency assistance consisting of construction material, beds,
blankets, food, and medicine to the most severely affected areas.
9. The Government of Argentina contacted different aid organizations,
recei-ing offers of assistance from UNDP (US$50,000); the US Government
(US$50,000 and 4,000 blankets, 23 tents, and containers with Army rations);
The International Adventist Agency (US$500,000); Japan (US$162,000); the
European Community (182,000 ECUs); the Pan-American Foundation mobilized
(US$300,000 from Phillip Morris Foundation grant). The provinces, in line
with the Central Government actions, concentrated their efforts on the
evacuation of people most threatened by the flooding. More than 120,000
persons were evacuated and provided shelter, blankets, and food. Work on
river defenses was intense in all cities and towns located near the rivers in
an effort to strengthen, raise, and compact the dikes and other embankments.



- 18 -
TECHNICAL AMNEX
Pace 3 of 18
C. mhe Bank' a ResDonse and Stratecuv
10.  In response to the Government'.s request for assistance to rehabilitate
infrastructure damaged by the flood, the Bank's strategy was immediately to
identify uncommitted funds from existing loans that could be prudently
reallocated to provide resources quickly for emergency works, while at the
same time prepare a possible emergency rehabilitation project. The Bank also,
at the Government's request and as part of its strategy, initiated the
identification of a subsequent operation that would aim at improving
Argentina's flood forecasting and prevention capabilities, as well as
preparedness to deal with severe flooding (to be prepared at a later date).
The Bank sent a mission to identify and appraise the proposed rehabilitation
project between June 16 and July 4, 1992. Negotiations for the Loan were
conducted between August 24 and August 26, 1992. During the mission, the
Government requested that uncommitted funds from the accounts of the existing
Bank loan for a Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR) of up to US$20
million be used to address the immediate needs of strengthening the project's
existing institutional framework and of rehabilitation in the seven provinces
most affected by the flood. It was agreed with the Government that it would be
inadvisable to reallocate funds from other loans so as to maintain the
momentum of ongoing operations and the related policy reforms. These
amendments were circulated to the Executive Directors with the Memorandum R
92-149, dated August 3, 1992.
Protect Descriotion
11. The proposed project would finance rehabilitation investments in key
infrastructure and equipment for (a) transport and energy, (24* of total base
cost); (b) emergency flood control works (29.3* of total base cost); (c)
housing, (10% of total base cost); (d) education and health facilities (10.5%
of total base cost); (e) water supply, and drainage (7% of total base cost);
(f) additional requirements to be determined after final damage assessment
(16% of total base cost); (g) technical assistance to strengthen the
institutions involved in project implementation (2.5% of total base cost); and
(h) flood forecasting and prevention of future disasters, including technical
assistance (0.6* of total base cost).
Transport and Nnerav
12. The component of Transport arid Energy comprises:
(a) Infrastructure rehabilitation works for roads, urban streets,
railroads, bridges, ports, and electricity distribution in seven
flood-damaged provinces;
(b) Replacement of electric equipment destroyed by the flood; and
(c) Rehabilitation of flood control structures along roads damaged by
the flood.



- 19 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Paae 4 of 18
13. Expenditures under this component amount to US$51,932,000 equivalent and
are shown in Attachment 2, table 1 by province and by subsector. Detailed
expenditures, by province, are given in Attachment 2, table 2. About 70% of
these expenditures are for the reconstruction of roads and bridges. In
Attachment 2, table 2, the type of damage varies f?om province to province
according to topographical and hydrological features. The project did not
include repairs or reconstruction of national roads within provincial
boundaries. A proposed transport sector project may include them. The damage
and required rehabilitation expenditures in each province are as follows.
Formosa (US$17,125.000)
14. Heavy flooding by the Paraguay river in the east and by its tributaries
Pilcomayo in the north and Bermejo in the south seriously affected the urban
structure, port facilitiea, electricity distribution system and the roads
around the cities of Formosa (capital) and Clorinda. Flood damage to roads
and streets was exacerbated by the movement of heavy equipment and trucks
during the attempt to reinforce flood barriers along the rivers.
The required rehabilitation works include:
(a) roads --reconstruction of culverts, embankments, and riding
surfaces;
(b) urban streets --repair of drainage and underground structures,
filling of erosions, patching and replacement of riding surfaces or
pavements;
(c)  Dorts --repair of piers and connecting platforms, reconstruction or
reinforcement of retaining walls and repair of buildings;
(d)  electricity distribution --reconstruction of critical power-line
sections and replacement of destroyed transformers, relays, and
consumption meters; and
(e)  Expert assistance --because of the extensive damage to rural and
urban roads (exceeding US$14,000,000) and the relative weakness of
the provincial road authority, technical assistance by an expert
would be provided throughout project execution.
National roads within provincial boundaries suffered damage
estimated at US$3,500,000 equivalent (see para 13 above).
Misiones  (US$7,022,000)
15. The Paran& river flooded low-lying areas along the northwest boundary of
the province, interrupting traffic in several places, along the main national
road Xrl2. The Iguazu river caused damages along the north-east boundary, and
the Uruguay river flooded and caused heavy damage in several low-lying towns
along the southeast boundary of the province, and interrupted traffic along



- 20 -
TBCHNICAL ANNEX
PaQe 5 of 18
road Nr2 parallel to the river. The traffic interruptions along these two
roads required diversion of traffic to the high-lying, central, partially
unpaved road Nrl4 through a great number of unpaved connecting roads causing
heavy damage to this road system, which was originally designed for much
lighter volume.
The required rehabilitation of paved roads can be summarized as follows:
(i)  roads --spot repair of paved roads, reconstruction of culverts,
embankments and riding surfaces of unpaved roads, and
reconstruction or repair of eight major bridges;
(ii) gangways --complete reconstruction of the tourist-paths built in
the river bed in the Iguazu Falls National Park, a major tourist
attraction in Argentina;
(iii) ports --repair of piers, pavements and buildings; and
(iv) glectric distribution --reinforcement of transmission towers,
reconstruction of specific power-line sections and replacement of
destroyed transformers and ratlays.
Several bridges along National Road 12 were affected by the rising
water level and suffered infrastructure and superstructure damage, which was
not appraised (see para 13 above).
Corrientes (US$3,027.000)
16. Extensive flooding of the low, western-sloping plains along the Parana
River and flooding of low areas along the Uruguay River to the east caused
heavy damage to the provincial road system as well as about 16 towns.
The rehabilitation works required include:
(a) roads reconstruction of culverts, embankments, and road surfaces;
and
(b) urban streets repair of drainage systems and road surfaces.
Chaco (US$12,110.000)
17. The Paraguay river and its tributary Bermejo flooded the northeastern
plains of the province and caused extensive damage to contiguous roads and
towns. In addition, the area surrounding the capital, Resistencia, and the
ports of Barranqueras and Vilelas were endangered by the rising level of the
Parana River after its junction with the Paraguay River, with additional
flooding from the Rio Negro sweeping in from the northwest. The heavy volume
of construction equipment and sandbag-loaded trucks rushing to erect flood
control embankments inflicted extensive damage to the existing road system,
particularly in the densely populated industrial areas around the capital.



- 21 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Pacre 6 of 18
The rehabilitation works required include:
(a) roads --repair of damaged sections of paved roads, including
bridges, and reconstruction of culverts, bridges, embankments and
road surfaces of unpaved roads;
(b)  urban streets --repair of drainage and underground structures,
replacement of pavement sections, and patching and repair of
unpaved streets;
(c)  railroads --construction of a 100 m bridge to span a canal built
for emergency diversion of the Rio Negro River and reconstruction
of railyards in the port area; and
(d)  norts --reconstruction of piers, at Barranqueras and Vilelas.
Entre Rios (US$7,008,000)
18. Extensive flooding of the southern low-lying half of the province by the
Parana and flooding of low areas to the east of the Uruguay river inflicted
heavy damage to the provincial road system. The required rehabilitation works
for roads comprise reconstruction of culverts and bridges, as well as
enbankments and riding surfaces. Heavy damage to national roads in the delta
area has not yet been appraised (see para 13 above).
Santa Fe (US$5,C10,00)
19. The Parana River and its western tributaries extensively flooded the
low-lying plains north of Santa Fe, c.ausing heavy damage to the road system
and endangering the city of Santa Fe and many other towns. In addition, the
outflow from flooded areas through existing bridges of a provincial road (Nrl)
caused dangerous erosion at the foundation of a major bridge.
20. The required rehabilitation of roads comprises the partial
reconstruction of 130 km of barriers along road Nrl between Santa Fe and San
Javier, rehabilitation of the road pavement, repair of spot damage to other
roads, and reinforcement of a bridge foundation.
21. Damage to the national road system has not been appraised (see para 13
above). Repairs would involve required defenses against river-bottom erosion
that endanger the stability of the tunnel under the Paraguay River that
connects the Provinces of Santa Fe and Sntre Rios (Road Nrl68), and measures
to be taken to contain the intensifying erosion of the western banks of the
Parana River along the same road. The projected construction of a western
bypass around Santa Fe for national road Nrll needs to be reviewed to ensure
that it will be constructed above flood level.



- 22 -
TECHNMICAL ANNEX
Pace 7 of 18
Emercencv Flood Control Works
22. Present situation: Many flood control facilities proved to be inadequate
to withstand the 1992 flood. Apparently, insufficient rehabilitation works
were carried out in a number of locations after the 1983 flood. For example
dikes had not been heightened sufficiently. Embankments had rather steep
slopes and required immediate reinforcement to prevent their total collapse.
Pumping equipment was found inoperable with numerous portable pumps put into
service as substitutes. As the 1983 flood was considered by many
prognosticators to be a once-in-a-century flood, a false impression took root
that a similar flood could not occur soon--certainly not in the next decade.
23. The flood broke through several embankments erected to protect towns and
,cities along the Parana and Paraguay rivers. In Clorinda, an embankment along
the river failed on the right bank of the lower Paraguay River, flooding over
half of the town of 40,000 people. Similarly, sections of Santa Fe, a city of
500,000 inhabitants situated on the right bank of the lower Parana River, were
flooded when dikes along the river failed. Other seriously affected towns and
cities are Formosa (Province of Formosa); Resistencia, Puerto Bermejo and
Cerrito (Province of Chaco); Santa Elena, Villa Hernan Darias and Federacion
(Province of Untre Rios); and Goya and Empedrado (Province of Corrientes).
24. The flood danger 'La many cities is worsened by their proximity to the
confluence of the Parana River and its tributaries that surround the urban
areas. Thus, an extensive diking system is needed, since high floods always
threaten to envelop the dikes in many locations.
25. The provincial and municipal authorities in the region affected by the
1992 flood responded quickly and energetically to the emergency. Transport
and earthmoving equipment was mobilized to repair and strengthen flood control
dikes and to build diversionary structures needed to divert tributaries of the
Parana River, which threatened cities and towns. Sandbags were procured and
pits burrowed to provide sufficient material for the repair and strengthening
of embankments. Portable pumps were bought or rented to replace pumping
equipment found inoperable.
26. The poor condition of many existing embankments required the
construction of berms to improve stability and reduce leakage. The higher
than expected flood levels also forced the authorities to heighten many
embankments. These works were still ongoing during the visit of the Bank
mission in late June and early July. While they provide the necessary
protection in many cases, a large number of emergency repair works will have
to be replaced by more appropriate measures. Sections of dikes that were
built hurriedly were poorly compacted and often consisted of an assemblage of
sandbags, wooden boards, and poorly compacted soil. Some of these dikes may
even fail quickly when flood waters recede because the saturated, poorly
compacted soil will not retain sufficient stability. Furthermore, all newly
built dikes were only compacted in the center section. On either side, the
slopes usually consist of very loose soil with no inherent stability. Also,
the emergency pumping equipment must be quickly replaced.



- 23 -
TECHNICAL AMEX
Paae 8 of 18
27. The emergency rehabilitation of flood control works required by damage
caused by the recent flood are listed in Attachment 2, page S. They amount to
about US$64 million. The cost of the rehabilitation works does not include
expenditures before June 16, 1992, the arrival date of the mission, because
they will not be financed under the Project.
28. The flood control rehabilitation under the proposed Project would
in-lude:
-the completion of the ongoing emergency flood control construction
works such as strengthening of dikes, improvement of surface
drains, completion of diversion structures, stabilization of river
banks, and repair of pumping stations;
-the replacement and improvement of poorly built emergency
structures, which are unlikely to withstand another flood such as
the rehabilitation or replacement of embankment sections that
presently consist of poorly compacted soil, sandbags, wooden
boards, and plastic sheets, and the heightening of embankments and
the rehabilitation of riverbank protection works;
-the rehakbilitation and replacement of pumping equipment, valves,
and gates. To the extent possible, existing equipment would be
repaired. However many pumping facilities must be replaced and/or
will require higher capacity units; and
-consultants to prepare the design of more complex engineering
works.
Housing
29.     Approximately US$21 million would be available as grants to about
5,700 low-income beneficiaries who will provide the labor to rebuild their
units in the provinces of Buenos Aires, Formosa, Santa Fe, Chaco, and
Misiones. Officials of the Provinces of Corrientes and Entre Rios declined to
participate. In the Province of Misiones, an unictermined number of owners of
the units which were destroyed or threatened are scheduled to be compensated
and relocated under the Yacyreta project. No provisions have therefore been
made to include them under this proposed project. However, about 1,000 people
who suffered damage and are not covered by the Yacyreta relocation scheme will
be included here. Building material (about US$3.700) is expected to comprise
about 85* of the unit cost and would be financed from Bank funds (70k) and the
central and provincial governments (15W each). The beneficiaries, who are
among the poorest families in the affected areas, would finance the remaining
15 of the unit cost through their labor input.
30. Attachment 2, page lOA, contains technical specifications and design
details for the units provided under this component. The units would be 30 m2
with two bedrooms plus a multipurpose room. They would be made of wood and
built on stilts to avoid future flood damage, since they are in areas that



- 24 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Pacie 9 of 18
cannot be defended by ordinary flood control measures. Several sections of
the structure would be prefabricated panels to facilitate quick and simple
assembly by homeowners.
31. No provisions are included for relocation of residents away from flooded
areas because previous attempts of this kind have not worked for a variety of
reasons. Among these is that when one group of residents vacate a site,
others arrive to occupy it and face the same hazards. Also, the economic,
socio-cultural, and other ties of the residents to their former neighborhoods
all tend to encourage them to sell their relocated units and return to the
areas from which they. were moved. While the ultimate goal should be to have
no settlements in clearly hazardous areas, the issues that would have to be
addressed cannot be dealt with in an emergency rehabilitation operation.
32.   To minimize beneficiary access to funds and potential abuses in various
areas, a voucher system would be used. Under this system, housing experts
posted in the central and provincial units would work with provincial
technicians to provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries in the field.
Special regulations agreed with the Government and included in an Annex to the
Operational Manual prepared for project execution cover the eligibility
criteria, the house design, monitoring and supervision requirements, and other
measures to assure transparency and accountability.
33. Social workers from the municipalities would visit applicants and verify
they meet the program criteria. All beneficiaries would be required to sign a
legal document stating, among other things, that they (all relevant family
members): lived on the site prior to the floods; owned the unit that was
destroyed; the unit was their only residence and they have no other property;
have no savings or other resources to rebuild the unit on their own; and plan
to live in the area for at least three years. If the land on which they plan
to build belongs to someone else, the beneficiary must provide signed approval
from the owner allowing them to use the land for at least three years or
establish that he has occupied the land for the last five years; agree to use
the voucher as stipulated and to comply with all of its conditions and
requirements; agree to provide the labor needed to assemble their units; and
agree to follow the instructions of the field technicians to ensure that the
units are constructed in accordance with safety requirements. Beneficiaries
would also ati>-rm their understanding that if they make any false declaration
or misuse the material received, they will be subject to judicial proceedings
and will have to make full restitution if found guilty of such abuses.
Beneficiaries who receive assistance through the voucher program would not be
eligible for any additional complementary and/or concessionary assistance from
the government for the units received.
34. Beneficiaries would receive vouchers for repair and reconstruction work.
Receipt to these nominally assigned vouchers will be annotated in a Registry
of Beneficiaries. These vouchers will be non-transferable and can be drawn
down in tranches from any hardware supplier participating in the program, and
they will specify the value, tranche limits, type of material that can be
purchased, and the sequence of such purchases to ensure a minimum waiting



- 25 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Paae 10 of 18
period between purchase and installation of the material. Beneficiaries would
have ultimate responsibility for constructing and assembling their units, with
technical assistance guidance from the field technicians to whom they would be
assigned. The field technicians would be responsible for supervising the
quality and value of the materials delivered by the suppliers to the
beneficiaries. The hardware suppliers can redeem the vouchers under
procedures and conditions specified as part of the agreement to include them
in the program. The suppliers, inter-alia would have to show proof of delivery
of the materials to the beneficiary (i.e., sales slips). These and other
regulations would be included in an Annex to the Operational Manual.
Education Facilities
35. The education facilitie3 rehabilitation component includes: (a) the
rehabilitation of education facilities in provinces affected by the floods;(b)
school equipment to replace or recover that destroyed or damaged by the
floods; (c) technical assistance for the development of the proposal at the
provincial level. These facilities include community dining rooms, child care
centers, and primary, secondary, and technical schools (see Attachment 2, page
11) .
36. The rehabilitation of education facilities is concentrated on repairing
damage: (a) caused by the presence of water; and (b) caused by the use of
schools for refuge and shelter of evacuated people, particularly the
rehabilitation of sanitary services or school equipment used for purposes
other than originally intended.
37. The education rehabilitation proposal (as well as in the health
component) concentrates on: (a) structural rehabilitation of the facilities
from a preventive point of view, proposing construction of units on stilts in
marshy areas to reduce future flood risks; (b) use of local materials and
manpower, reinforcing the previous concept of technology transfer and
incorporating community participation by means of self-building or
administration delegated to organizations such as cooperatives or townships
(already ongoing in some provinces); (c) maximum use of the architectural and
engineering documentation from provincial technical organizations and
promotion of interprovincial exchange of project proposals (for example, Santa
Fe and Entre Rios).
38. The project includes the rehabilitation of approximately 268 units or
approximately 90,000 m2. This represents 40 school units in Formosa with an
area of 19,000 m2 (10 of which were used as shelters for evacuated people);  9
school units in Chaco with an area of approximately 4,500 m2; 10 community
dining rooms for mother and child and the elderly in Misiones with an area of
600 n2; 67 school-units in Corrientes that were used as shelters for evacuated
people; 65 school units in Entre Rios with an area of 16,000 e2; 48 school
units in Santa Fe with an area of 18,000 i2; and 28 school units in Buenos
Aires with an area of 7,900 i2. The base cost of repairs to the educational
facilities is US$17.5 million.



- 26 -
TECHNICAL ANNEM
Pacre 11 of 18
Hea&th Facilities
39. The health component includes: (a) health facility rehabilitation in
the provinces affected by the floods; (b) medical equipment to replace or
recover the equipment destroyed or damaged, especially those not withdrawn
previously from the facilities; and (c) the necessary technical assistance at
the provincial level. It would include ambulatory units; health posts in rural
areas; first-aid centers, health centers, and community centers in the urban
area; and in-patient units, i.e., hospitals (see Attachment 2, page 16).
40. The rehabilitation of health facilities would try to overcome both
damage produced by the presence of water at different levels and the
deterioration of hospital sewerage systems caused by the rising level of
underground water.
41. The project includes the rehabilitation of 38 health units of
approximately 13,000 i2. This represents 9 health units in Formosa with an
area of 1,500 en, of which 4 would be first-aid centers; 4 health centers and
1 hospital (Clorinda); 6 health units in Chaco with an area of 2,000 i2, of
which 4 would be health posts and 2 hospitals (General vedia y la Leonesa).
This province presents the only facility reallocation case; Puerto Bermejo
Hospital (the enlargement of the health center under construction) in a new
settlement area --where 50 percent of the population was resettled permanently
after the 1983 flood, since the river's erosion action does not allow a stilt-
building solution there; 1 health unit in Misiones with an area of 180 m2 for
a health center; 2 health units in Corrientes with an area of 2,300 i2
equivalent to 2 hospAtals (Itati and Paso de la Patria); 5 health units in
Sntre Rios with an area of 1,700 m2, equivalent to 3 health centers and 2
hospitals (Paranacito and Behering); 15 health units in Santa Fe with an area
of 5,000 ad fo' 11 community centers, 1 home for the elderly, and 3 hospitals
(San Javier, Janta Rosa and Dr. J.M. Cullen). The J.M. Cullen Hospital,a
Provincial Reference Hospital of 400 beds, located in the capital city, was
not inundated by flood waters but by the ebb-tide created by the fluvial
drainage from rain water, and is an example of where the proposed
rehabilitation effort will support the engineering works of the sewerage
systems (see attachment 2, page 16). The base cost of the rehabilitation of
the health facilities is US$5.1 million.
Water and Seweraae Works
42. Flood damage to the water and sewerage systems basically affected water
intakes, pumping stations, treatment plants and the lower part of the sewerage
systems,. and the final disposal of sewage. The flood had accelerated the
collapse of some parts of the systems that had been affected by the 1983
flood. Fortunately, water supply to cities affected by the flood was not
interrupted. Provisional water supply was organized in those cities where some
of the displaced population had to be relocated. Water intakes in most cases
suffered by displacement of pipes, as well as destruction or damage to
subaquatic structures. Pump motors and electrical devices under water in some



- 2t -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 12 of 18
cases have been seriously damaged. Similar problems occurred at some water
treatment plants.
43. Damage to sewerage systems generally was to the downstream sections
(lower part) of the network and to final sewage disposal. In some cities,
flood waters could become polluted by sewage accumulated in open channels,
creating serious public-health problems. Interceptors, final trunk sewage
collectors, pumping stations, and subaquatic outfalls have also suffered.
Also some secondary sewage collectors were damaged. In some cases, higher-
than-normal hydraulic pressure displaced the piping system, which now needs
rehabilitation. Most cities damaged by the flood have sections still under
water and will require some time before a final assessment of damage can be
made. In some cases, construction of new pumping stations will be needed as
well as reinforcement of flood defense structures for hydraulic elements.
Private contractors will be used for the repair work as well as erection of
necessary equipment. The base costs of these repairs is US$15.1 million (see
Attachment 2, page 17).
Additional Reauirements
44. During appraisal, the full brunt of flood damage could not be
ascertained, especially in the Province of Buenos Aires, where the flood peak
occurred only in early July, 1992. Moreover, there were indications that there
could be further flood surges. For this reason, 16% of the proposed project's
base costs are reserved for as yet undesignated project activity. The
project's Operational Manual has special regulations for the inclusion of new
subprojects under this component: i.e., proposals for these possible
subprojects would be identified and evaluated by the SUPCEs and sent to the
Bank with comments and recommendations from SUCCE for its review and approval.
Each proposed subproject sent to the Bank would be accompanied by supporting
information as required by the Operational Manual. It was agreed that SUCCE
would send these proposals not later than January 31, 1993.
Technical Assistance
45.     A technical assistance component of about US$6.2 million (2.9* of the
base cost) would include consultant services and equipment, both at the
central and provincial levels (see paragraph 50 below) to strengthen the
institutional framework of the project implementation. It would also cover the
consultants and studies referred to in paragraphs 48 and 49 below and the
audit costs.
Flood Forecastina and Disaster Prevention
46.       The Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hidrica (INCYTH) is the
main agency for monitoring hydrological phenomena, issuing flood warnings, and
conducting hydrological research. The computer equipment available at INCYTH
is outdated and impedes the timely processing of hydrological data.
Similarly, computer equipment available to the hydrologist working in
provincial offices is outdated; in some cases, no equipment is available.



- 28 -
TECHNICAL AMEX
Paae 13 of 18
Support under the Proiect
47. The proposed loan would finance the provision of modern equipment,
including computers, printers, and software to strengthen the technical
capacity in hydrological monitoring and flood forecasting of INCYTH and
provincial hydrological offices. Specialized consulting services would be
provided through a consulting firm or firms contracted by SUCCE, to review the
existing arrangements for hydrological monitoring and flood forecasting and to
assist in the selection and procurement of the most appropriate equipment, as
well as to install and train operators of the equipment. The project would
ensure that INCYTH coordinates its work with other organizations, especially
with EBY (Entidad Binacional Yacyreta) which is implementing a flood
forecasting system and an advance warning system under a Bank project.
48. The cost of the equipment has been estimated at US$250,000, of which
US$200,000 would be for equipment to be installed at INCYTH and US$50,000 for
equipment to be provided to provincial offices. The cost of the consultancy
services required to review the existing hydrological monitoring and flood
forecasting and to assist in the selection and procurement of the equipment as
well as in staff :raining has been estimated at US$250,000.
49. In addition, the proposed loan would finance studies under the general
supervision of SUCCE, (see para 50 below) on the flooding records/patterns of
the Parana River basin and the adequacy of emergency-related legislation in
Argentina. The proposed Loan Agreement provides for consultation with the
Bank, within 18 months, on the results of these studies. Finally, funds would
be included for the preparation within six months, of terms of reference for
future studies regarding: (i) regional issues concerning flooding in the
Parana river basin, which also concern Paraguay, Brazil and Bolivia; (ii)
mechanisms to prevent flood losses that discourage development (e.g. tax
assessment practices) and (iii) insurance options as a way of spreading flood
losses over a period of time and across larger groups than those directly
impacted by any given flood. SUCCE would contract a consulting firm or firms
(see para. 47 above) for the selection of specialists, the preparation of
their terms of reference, and the direct supervision of their work.
D. Proiect Management
50. The proposed project would be implemented within the Government's existing
organizational framework, with responsibilities centered in the Ministry of
Interior's Secretariat for Provincial Reforms. The project will build on the
operational experience gathered through partial implementation of the Provincial
Development Project (Loan 3820-AR), which is under the supervision of the above
mentioned Secretariat. It would be carried out through the latter Project's
Central and Provincial Units, which are responsible for its overall management.
However, considering the nature of the Emergency Rehabilitation project, which
consists of short-term civil works (24 months) of carefully selected components,
the proposed project includes the following: (a) an already established (through
the amendment to Loan 3820-AR) subunit (SUCCE) in the Central Executing Unit
(CRU) of the Provincial Development Project. This subunit would be headed by a



- 29 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 14 of 18
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to coordinate its activities. The CEO of SUCCE,
although under the supervision of the Executive Coordinator of CEU, would have
sufficient autonomy, as described in the Operational Manual. He will be supported
by an international consultant who is an expert in procurement. Other consultants
include a disbursement expert, a road engineer, a water and sewerage engineer,
an engineer expert in river defenses, an architect expert in housing, and an
architect expert in construction of health and education buildings. SUCCE would
have the following equipment: (i) two PCs, with software compatible with that
used by the provincial entities; (ii) a fax; (iii) a modem; (iv) a printer; (v)
a copying machine; and (vi) basic office furniture. All the consultants and
equipment are financed by the proposed loan under the technical assistance
component (see para 45 above). (b) Similarly, at the provincial level, new
subunits have been established (SUPCEs) within the Provincial Executing Unit
(PRU) for the Provincial Development Project.   Structurally, the SUPCEs are
similar to the SUCCE. Each SUPCE would have its own equipment (PCs, modems,
printers, fax, etc. and a vehicle to supervise works). (c) In addition, the
Government has employed a supervisor engineer, who will maintain continuing
surveillance of project acti.vities, and report his findings directly to the
Secretariat of Provincial Reform, while keeping the Bank fully informed. (d)
Finally, an Operational Manual, agreed with the Bank, would provide guidance and
establishes standards for all aspects of project implementation.
E. Proiect Cost and Financina
Cost Estimates
51. The total cost of the proposed project excluding taxes and duties is
estimated at US$270.0 million equivalent based at estimated prices of July 1992,
with  a  foreign  exchange  component  of  US$82.7  million  or  31*.    Price
contingencies, equivalent to 8% of base costs plus physical contingencies, are
based on local inflation rates of 12.2* in 1992, 4.8* in 1993, and 3.9% in 1994;
and foreign inflation rates of 2.8W in 1992, and 3.9% in 1993-94.   Physical
contingencies, totalling about 16% of base costs, were calculated on the basis
of 10* for Transport and Energy, Housing, and Institutional Development; 15% for
Education and Health Facilities, Water Supply and Drainage; and 25* for Emergency
Flood Control Works.
Financing Plan
52. The proposed Bank loan of US$170.0 million and US$20 million reallocated
from the amended Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR) would finance
about 70% of total project cost net of duties and taxes.   The Central and
Provincial governments would finance the remaining US$80.0 million in addition
of duties and taxes of US$48.6 million. A summary of project cost and financing
is presented in Schedule A.  Due to the emergency nature of the project, 20% of
total Bank financing (US$38.0 million) will be provided for the retroactive
financing of expenditures made after June 16, 1992, (date of arrival of the Bank
mission) and in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.



- 30 -
TNCHNICAL ANNEX
Pace 15 of 18
Procurement
53. Procurement would be carried out by the SUCCE and by the SUPCEs of the seven
participating provinces using similar arrangements and documents already in use
in the Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR). However, in view of the
emergency situation, procurement procedures for eligible subprojects have been
simplified in line with Bank guidelines to facilitate speedy project
implementation in such operations.
54.   Because the majority of repair and reconstruction works will be of
relatively small size and executed at scattered locations in seven provinces,
contracts for civil works and goods would not be suitable for procurement through
International Competitive Bidding, and thus would be awarded mostly under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. In any event, many
international firms are represented in Argentina and would be eligible to
participate.
55. Goods estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more per contract,
totalling about US$2.0 million, will be procured through Limited International
Bidding. Civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 million equivalent or more but not
to exceed US$5.0 million per contract, totalling about US$80.0 million, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
56. Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent and civil works less
than US$1.0 million equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers or
contractors, eligible under the Bank guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. These contracts would amount, in the aggregate, to
US$21.8 million for goods and to US$80.0 million for works. Minor equipment
items for the technical assistance component valued at less than US$25,000 would
also be procured on the basis of price quotations. Under special circumstances
of extreme urgency, to be justified by the Borrower through SUCCE to the Bank,
civil works costing less than the equivalent of US$1.0 million but not exceeding
the equivalent of US$20.0 million in aggregate, may be directly contracted with
an eligible contractor by a Province under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
57. Subject to the prior approval of the Borrower through SUCCE, emergency civil
works may be carried out by a province through force account provided that the
aggregate cost of such civil works shall not exceed an amount equivalent to 10*
of the total cost of the eligible emergency subprojects carried out by such
province.
58. SUCCE would review ex-ante all procurement procedure documents, bid
evaluations and contract awards to ensure that the agreed procurement process is
properly implemented. In addition, procurement of consultant services costing
US$50,000 equivalent or more would be reviewed ex-ante by the Bank. The Bank
would review ex-ante all Limited International Bidding processes. Because of the
emergency nature of the project, and because LCB contracts would be too small and



- 31 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Paae 16 of 18
numerous for effective ex-ante review by the Bank, such review would be delegated
to SUCCE. However, to ensure that LCB procedures are satisfactory to the Bank,
the Bank would review ex-ante the two first LCB procurement processes to be
carried out each calendar year. In addition, the Bank would review the remaining
LCB procurement procedures, as well as the decisions to allow direct contractir.g
and force account execution of works, both on an ex-post basis by sampling. If
it were determined that procurement did not follow agreed procedures, then no
expenditures for such items would be financed out of loan proceeds, and the Bank
would cancel the corresponding loan amount, and the Special Account would be
reimbursed by the Borrower.
59. To ensure that SUCCE has the required capacity for satisfactory and
efficient review of procurement procedures, the Government has agreed to hire a
consultant experienced in Bank procurement procedures to assist SUPCEs, SUCCE,
and the project supervisor (see para 50 above).
Disbursements
60. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures as follows:
(a)  Civil Works         85  of expenditures made on or before
December 31, 1992, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$20.0 million and 68* thereafter
(b)  Equipment           100% of foreign expenditures; and 85* of
local expenditures, made on or before December
31, 1992, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of US$4.7 million, and 51*
thereafter
(c) Technical
Assistance          100*
(d)  Housing Grants      85* of the amounts disbursed under the
respective Housing Grant on or before
December 31, 1992, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of US$10.0 million and
56* thereafter
61. These percentages of expenditures reflect the fact that the 1992 Central
Government' s budget is " frozen", and thus has no allocation for counterpart funds
for this year. The slight increase in Bank funding in 1992 would be compensated
in the following years.
62. A Special Account, in US$ dollars and with an initial deposit of
approximately US$17.0 million, would be established as would be provided in the
Financial Agency Agreement between the Financial Agent and the Central
Government, which would be a condition of effectiveness. The Special Account



- 32 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Paae 17 of 18
would be managed by the CHU through the SUCCE (see para. 50 above). All
disbursements against contracts for less than US$3.0 million for works, and for
less than US$250,000 for goods, US$30,000 for services, and the housing grants
would be made on the basis of Certified Statements of Expenditures (SOBS). The
documentation for SOES would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by the
CEU/SUCCE and made available for inspection by Bank staff.   All  other
disbursements would be made against standard documentation.
63. As project activities are restricted to vital repair and reconstruction
operations that can be completed in 24 months, the project would be disbursed in
30 months.  Assuming that the loan would become effective approximately on
October 30, 1992, the projectIs estimated completion date would be September 30,
1994 with a proposed closing date of March 31, 1995. There is no specific
regional disbursement profile for a project of this nature.
acgounts and Auditina
64. Biannual audits of the special account of the project account of the SUCCE
component and of project accounts for the seven provinces would be performed by
private, independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, under terms of reference
also satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports will be delivered to the Bank
no later than three months after the end of each semester. The project account
audit will include, inter alia, separate opinions on: (a) sources and uses of
account funds, (b) SOEs, and (c) compliance with all Bank agreements.
E. Environmental and Social Impact
65. Since all investments are for reconstruction of existing infrastructure,
no negative environmental effects are expected. There are several positive
environmental consequences of the proposed project, including restoration of
damaged health facilities to deal with the increase in health problems related
to the floods, including an increased incidence of cholera. Prompt repair of
water and sewerage systems will help restore adequate water disposal facilities,
and overcome water contamination. New and some rehabilitated piping will help
reactivate safe sewage disposal. These systems and the flood control works will
greatly improve the urban environment now and in the future. Detailed design of
the water and sewer systems will be subject to local environmental assessment,
according to Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank.
Renortinci and Monitorina
66. SUCCE would prepare every four months a project report based on the reports
of each SUPCE, showing the physical progress against the project implementation
schedule (Attachment 4) for each component, with an explanation of any
significant departures from it and outlining what remedial actions are being
taken. The supervisor-engineer (see para 50 above) will inform bimonthly the
Secretariat for the Reform of the Public Sector (within the Ministry of Interior)
and the Bank about the implementation procedures of the project. In October 1993
there would be a mid-term review on the progress of project implementation and



- 33 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Paae is of 18
the attainment of stated objectives. A Project Completion Report (PCR) will be
prepared within six months of the closing date of the loan.
Actions Aareed
67. To expedite project initiation, the Federal Government and the participating
provinces have already completed several important actions. It should be noted
that these arrangements have been substantially advanced by the Government. The
Bank and the Government have agreed on the Provincial Development Project
amendments (Memorandum R-92-149 dated August 3, 1992). In particular, resolutions
have been issued establishing SUCCE and the SUPCBs and providing them with staff
and equipment. Other resolutions have put into effect a first version of the
Operational Manual. The consultants needed to advise SUCCE have been hired, and
auditing arrangements confirmed. It was agreed that the following would be
conditions of effectiveness: (a) the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with
at least three provinces; (b) the signing of a Financial Agency Agreement with
an appropriate financial institution; and (c) the adoption of a final version of
the Operational Manual. It was also agreed: (a) that the Bank would receive every
four months a report on the progress of the project; (b) In October of 1993 there
would be a mid-term review on the progress of project implementation and the
attainment of stated objectives; (c) proposals for possible additional
subprojects would be identified and evaluated before January 31, 1993 and sent
to the Bank for review and approval, accompanied by supporting documentation as
required by the Operational Manual; (d) there would be consultations within 18
months with  the  Bank  on  the  results  of  the  studies  on  the  flooding
records/patterns of the Parana River Basin and the adequacy of emergency-related
legislation in Argentina, and terms of reference for other required studies would
be prepared within six months.



- 34-
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 6
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PRO3ECT
Flooded Areas
.   . ~ ~ ~ ~ S,
lr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
.  . .. a?- k  2 ,    .... _ .,
~~ a    @.
||E  .     .   X,&B-~~~~~~



- 35 -
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flooded Areas



- 36 -
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
ARGENTINA
FLOOD RRABhILITATION PROJEC
Flooded Areas
i -
l   _                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11_  
l               _~~~~~~~



- 37 -
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 6
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flooded Areas



- 38 -
Attachment 1
Page S of 6
ARGE:NTINA
FLOOI REHAILSTATION PROJECT
Works on Flood Control Embankments
A ','4



- 39 -
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Works on Flood Control Embankments



- 40 -4                             Attachmernt 2
Page 1 of 19
DETAIL OF DAMAGES PER SECTOR
I. TRANSPORT AND ENERGY SECTOR
Table 1
Costs Der Province and Der SubrSector
(US$000)
PROVINCE        ROADS AND      URBAN  1   RAIL   I  GANG-  1  PORTS  I  ELECTRIC  I  TECH.           TOTAL
BRIDGES  | STREETS       ROADS       WAYS  |          | DISTRIB.  | ASSIST.
FORMOSA           8,915       5,381    |, *-    |1193                     - 1,586          50      17.125
HISIONES          5 500          --         ..        600        122          800          ..       7 022
CORRIENTES        1,867       1,160         ..         -                                            3,027
CHACO             7.840       2 520      1.450                   300                               12.110
ENTRE RIOS        7,008          ..         ''         .                                            7,008
SANTA FE          5,640                                                         -                   5,640
TOTAL             36,770       9,061    11,450    I 60         11.615    J  2.388  |         s50oI1, 932



- 41 -                  Attachment 2
Page 2 of 19
Table 2
Detail of works and Costs oer Province
(US$000)
Total Cost of Damages in the Transport and Energy Sectors in the    51,932
seven Affected Provinces
A. FORMOSA                                                              17,125
1.  Roads (163.7 Km)                                                     8,965
Route 1, Herradura - Balneario, pavement repair, 15.5 Km                 1,503
Route 2, Formosa - National Route 11, embankments, bridges, 30.1 Km        502
Route 5, Nac.Route - Payagua, embankments, culverts26.3 Km                 429
Route 6, Moj. de Fierro - Dalmacia, embankments, culverts, 21 Km           711
Route 9, Nac. Route Colonia Caro, emb., culv., surface, 40.8 Km          5,320
Route 9, Villa Bsc - Nac. Route Nac. 95, emb., culv., 30 Km                450
2.  Urban Streets                                                        5.381
Urban Streets Formosa                                                    2,000
Urban Streets Clorinda                                                   3,747
Urban Streets Herradura                                                     84
3.  Ports                                                                   3
Formosa                                                                    703
Clorinda                                                                   490
4.                                                                       1.586
Electric distribution Formosa                                              735
Electric distribution Clorinda                                             830
Electric distribution Herradura                                             21
5.  Technical Assistance                                                    so
Technical Assistance for highways                                           50
B. NISXONES                                                              7,022
1.  Roads (1.469 Km)                                                     5.500
-  Paved road repair, including profile restitution, patching,
shoulder reconstruction and reconstruction of barriers 838 Km
-  Earth road repair, including profile restitution and culvert         2,669
reconstruction, 631 Km.
-  Reconstrucion of eight bridges, 600 mts                              1,322
1,509
|2. Gancoways                                                              6Q00
600
Reconstruction of gangways Iguazd Falls                               E 600
13.Pot
Miscellaneous repairs, Posadas and Iguaza ports                            122
4. Electric Distribution
Equipment replacement and service restitution                              800
C. CORRIENTES                                                            3,027



- 42 -                  AttlaChment 2
Page 3 of 19
.  R                                                                    1,867
- Reconetruction of embanksents, culverts and barriers in
different provincial routes according to Resolucion 361/1 of 25
June 1992, approx. 1,200 Km.                                         1,000
-   Reconstruction of embankments and surfaces in different roads         329
- Repairs of 6 bridges and several culverts                               338
Repairs of 2 bridges and 2 culverts                                     200
2.  Urban Streets                                                       1160
- Repair of drainages and bridges in Goya                                 730
- Reconstruction of streets, bridges, culverts and canals in 15
towns                                                                  430
12,110
1. EQ4Ed (465.5Skm)                                                     7a840
- Repairs of earth roads, including reconstruction of culverts and
I1 bridges and restitution of surface, 412 Km                        1,395
- Route 3, culvert widening, partial reconstruction of embankments    3,400
and pavement 39.1 Km
.  Route 63, repair of pavement, bridge and flood control, 3.3 Km       1,058
- Street in Puerto Vilelas, repair of base, pavement and flood
control, 2.5 Km                                                      1,000
Access to Puerto Vilelas, repair of base and pavement, 0.3 Km           125
- Barranqueras, Av. San Martin, reconat. embank. and pav., 3 Km           600
- Route 63, repair pavement and bridge, 5.3 Km                            262
2. Urban Streets                                                        2.520
-  Reconstruction of 10 KM of pavement and shoulders in Puerto
Vil$elas and Sarranqueras and soil replacement in Barranqueras       2,520
3. Railroads                                                              450
-  Railroad Reconstruction, including construction of bridge over
Rio Negro diversion canal                                            900
-  Reconstruction of switch yard in Barranqueras                          100
- Reconstruction of culverts and embankment in the access to the
National Grains Depot                                                 450
4. PQort
Reconstruction of piers in Pto. Bermejo and Las Palmas                300



43             ~~~~Attachment 2
Page 4 of 19
3. IN=X   l Smog                                                      7,008
goads                                                                 7.008
- Financing of expenditures incurred (those prior to 06-16-92 are
not elegible)                                                         99
- Financing of committed emergency roads                                242
l - Road Reconstruction contracts
- Accas to Holt Ibicuy 40 Km, 20* affected                              365
- Access to Puerto Ruiz                                                 245
- Access to Concordia                                                   160
- Access from Industrial Park into Concordia                            517
- Road Roll - Mazzaruca - Colonia - Rio Paranacito - Medanos          1,350
- Access to Villa Paranacito                                            300
- Bridge over the Guayquirar6 river, 150 mts                          2,230
- Road between Federaci6n and Industrial Park                         1,500
:?:w:-SWa"Wk FE:--.--  :---;{-:---:--f-  -: -    - --:   -    -5,640
g oads                                                            -    5,640
Bridge Asroyo Layes (230 mts)
- Adquisiti6n and transport of heavy slag for consolidation of
fundations 24,000 ton.                                               780
- Protection of river bed with heavy slag                             1,100
Works along Route 1
- Nmbankments and flood control reconstruction,37 Km                    572
- Repair of mbanmnt and shoulders, 42 Km                                561
- Repair of embankment and shoulders, 65 Km                             681
- Rehabilitation of asphalt pavement, 31.2 Km                           900
Rehabilitation of flood control works for Route 1 and
- Arroyo Leyes village                                                  117
- Santa Rosa de Calchines village                                        27
- Campo del Medio village                                                10
- Helvecia village                                                      253
- Saladero Cabal village                                                102
- Colonia Macias village                                                159
- San Javier village                                                     72
Other Roadb
- Repairs on Routes 60 and 61 of the Garay Department                    18
- Repairs of 14 roads in the San Javier - San Justo Department          288



Attachment 2
- 44                   Page 5 of 19
IX. FLOOD CONTROL INVESTMENTS
FLOOD CONTROL WORKS (tUS$)
I~~~~       ~ I  _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _
PROVINCE        TOTAL COST     CIVIL WORKS      EQUIP_NT      CONSULTANTS
FORMOSA           21.316.000      19.570.000      1.596.000        150.000
mISIONES                  --              --             --
CORRIENTES         1,900,000       1,663,000        182,000         55,000
CHACO              7,375,000       5,000,000      2,050,000        325,000
ENTRE RIOS         5,523,000       5,088,000        300,000        135,000
SANTA FE          27,079,000      26,579,000        300,000        200,000
BUENOS AIRES              --              --             --             --
CENTRAL UNIT         500,000              --        250,000        250,000
TOTAL             63.693.000      57.900,000 1    4.678.000      1.115.000



Attachment 2
- 45                              Page 6 of 19
FLOOD CONTROL WORKS - COST ESTIMATE  (UMS)
SAkiTA FE PROVINCE_  l
TOTAL COST             CIVIL WORKS                EQUIPMENT            CONSULTANTS
City of Santa Fe                _
River Bank protection (1)                       7,000,000             6.900.000                                     100.000
Repair of Pumping Station,                        300,000                200.00                       100.000
western Santa Fe
El Pozo section(2)                              1.250,000             1.100.000                       100.000        50.000
Eastern and S.J. Rincon                        18,529,000            18.379.000                       100.000        50.000
Section (3)                                                                                                                  l
TOTAL                                          27.079.,000           26,579,000                      300,000        200,000
(1) Removal of damaged structures and loose pa'ement; Total length 3 Km; Earth fill and compaction; preparation and
sealing of slope; construction of retaini'g wall over piles reaching to soil layer with sufficient carrying
capacity; construction of ancillary works.
Execution of complementary works
(2) El Pozo section, Easter region; repair of 2.26 km embankment; rehabilitation of 1.500 m of drains; 237,000 ma of
earth movement.
1   LOCATION                       LENGTH OF I PROTECTED 1  GATES    PUMPING   LENGTHT OF           EARTH       TOTAL COST
EMBANKMEN      AREA    I             STATION    DRAINS         MOVEMENT         (USS)
T(1KM)       (HA)    |                           (M)            (M                      II
COLASINE SOUTH                          2           20          1          1          1,500        210,000       1,175,340
LA GUARDIA                        _    5.05         80          1          1         5,050         530.250       2,148,728
LA GUARDIA NORTH                        4 4.9      340          1          1         8,900         514,500       2,115,184
VIRGEN DE GUADALUPE                     5.2        174          1          1         5.200         546,000       2,196,512
SANTA RITA                              1.86       123          1          1          1,860        195,300       1,132,522
GARELLO                                 2.31        59          1          1         2.310         242.550       1.275.874
SAN JOSE DEL RICON                      5.0        269          1          1         5,000         525.000       2,132,800
VILLA AJATI                             2.15        52.3         1         1         2,150         225.750       1.224.904
LOS NARANJALES                          5.2        225          1          1         5,180         543,900       2,190.141
ALTO VERDE                              5.0         65           1          1                      569,000       2,937,000
TOTAL+                                                                                                        1 18,529,05.I



Attachment 2
- 46 -                           Page 7 of 19
CHACO PROVINCE
TOTAL COST            CIVIL wORKS              EQUIPMENT            CONSULTANTS
City of Resistencia
Provision of pumps                            1.750.000                   .                    1.700,000        50 000 
Dike to divert Rio Negro
_   600,000              550,000                           -        50,000
Structure to divert Rio Negro
to Laguna Blanca
03,775,0Q           3,350,000                      350,000        75,000
Heightening of embankments to
level 52.0m)                                    650,000              600,000                          - -       50,000
Subtotal                                  6. 775.000           4 500.000                   2.050.000       225 000
Tawn of Puerto Bermeio
Rehabilitation of flood        |                350,000 |            300,000 1                                  50-000
control works                  I                        I
Town   o   Cerr    to            _____________________                                                     ________  _ 1
Rehabilitation of Flood        |                250,000 |            200,000                          --        50,000
Control Works                  J                        1                    I                           I   -      ]
TOTAL                                         7,375,000            5,000,000                   2050,000        325,000
FORMOSA PROVINCE
CitY of Formosa
Protective embankment (5.5 Km)                       ..                   -.
Earth movement: 260,000 mts3 x                2,340,000            2,340,000                          .- 
US$9.63 mtse
Improvements of provisional                  13,780.000           12,930.000                     800,000        50,000
flood control works; section
prefectura naval Argentina-
Calle lot 15bis y t6bis up to
level +12.50m
- Earth movement 1.200.000 m3
- Breakwater boards 950 m3
- River bank protection
- Ancillary work
Reconditioning of pumps                         496,400                   -                      396.400       100.000
Subtotal                                 16.616.400           15.270.000                   1.196.400       150.000
Citv of Clorinda                                         _
Protective embankment
Earth movement: 230,000 mts3 x                2.214.900            2.214.900
US$9.63 mts3
Reconditioning and relocation
of pmps                                       2.485.000            2.085.000                     400.000
Subtotal                                  4.699.900            4.299.900                     400,000
TOTAL                          |             21.316.300           19.569.900                   1.596.400       150.0



_ 47 _                          Attachment 2
Page 8 of 19
8#TR8 ROS )*V#~________
Slope protection; towns of                    1,065.000            1,000,000                           .        65,000
Santa Elena and La Paz                                                                                                 l
Slope protection; towns of                      530,000              500,000                                    30,000
Villa Hernin Darfas              ___    __ _ ___ _ ___ ____I
Flood control works; town of                    740,000              700,000                          --        40,000
Gualeguay                           .                                                                                  l
Protective embankment; town of                2,100,000            1,800,000                     300,000
Ibucuy
Rehabilitation of river bank                    150,000              150,000                          --
protection; town of
Pederaci6n
Heightening of village;                         898.000              898,000                                           l
Village of Paranacito
Rainwater drainage; town of                      40,000               40,000                          _.            _ 
Federaci6n _
i TOTAL                                         5,523,000            5,088,000 I                   300,000       135,000
City of Goya                     _
1.  Rehabilitation and
strengthening of flood control
work
Provision of pumps and spare
parts
- Diesel, 40 HP
- Diesel, 50 HP
- Electrical pump, 60 HP
- Electrical pump, 30 HP
- Miscellaneous                                 182.000                   .                      182,000
Renting of earth moving
equipment
1,310,000           1,310,000        .                                _.
Technical Assistance                             55,000                   ..                          ..        55.000
Dredging for construction of
protective embankments
______________________________                    53,000               53.000                          -- 
Subtotal                                  1.600.000            1,363.000                     182.000        55.000
Citv of Emoedrado
Rehabilitation of flood
control works
- River bank protection,                        200,000              200,000                          __
300mts                                           50 000               50 000
- Rehab. of Port area                            30,000               30,000
- Repair of sewers                               20,000               20,000                                        _
- Repair of drains
Subtotal                                    300.000              300.000                          --
TOTAL                          |              1,900.000            1, 663000                     182,000        55.000



Attachment 2
-48 -                          Page 9 of 19
C~aetor equipmnt including
printers, software, etc., to
strengthen the technical
capacity to carry hydrotogical
work including flood forecast
and warning system
- !NCYTR
* Provincias
200.000                 ...                    200,000           ..
50.000                 ...                     SO.000  _           1
Technical Assistance to
strengthen the hydrological
service and the flood forecast                                        ...
and warning sistem                            250.000                                             ..      2S0.OOO
TOTAL                  .                      S  o00o000 -[                                  250.000      250,000



- 49 -
I                  sZt.mated Cost of a                  I
P efabricated Unit Made of  oo d
,   ,UuLt size: 30  2. at qcaod el e
P   2 3ed.-cst; I vuAlti-use room; no bathkocu in unit 
* 1UziL: Profi1s le:J
zxtezal siding                                   .
I   Water-zesistant aspalt dh:                          #
1   3 Windows; I  oor 
Ccorrugated fiber-c."nt or zic roof 
I   Concrete platform                                   p
eNo water or electriclty connections 
*                                               1,413   I
P Optios:#
Wooden iLtsrnal siding                                 I
CeiiLang underlayAr 
* * 
720   p
_                                                       1
eoden Piles (h2.00m)                                   p
P -18 PNie  10Gm * S8                 6s0               P
.I                                                      I
-8 Beams  - 4  im   24                               P
jI         -4- 4   Sm   20                              I
I                    - - 
I                     44n*$           264               P
f                                                       I
f -Vineoard floor (Saligna) 6 S8S/2 240                 P
P -Nails                               30               1
f                                                       J
* -stairu 
P   2 Runners3*8                      108               P
I   1S Steps 1/2* 8 * 6                s0               p
P -30 Screws. 300nu*314                                 i
*l    + 2 Galanized nuts 
+ 2. aLv;anized washers              170               P
*                                    -                  p
p                                               1, 552   P
ip                                              -   P
f                  Total estlmated cost US$    3,68s  P
p. -coa
I *Ow-e to contribute onlabor (abut 15%)        . 
* #DASH;#ff#D######IIpIIpp#SSSIfRI|##III#IPI######PPItI



Attachment 2
50                    Page 10 of l9
SUMMARY OP EDUCATION FACILITIES BY PROVINCE
PROVINCE     ARCHITECTURE-    EQUIPMENT        TECHNICAL         TOTAL
ENGINEERING*                     ASSISTANCE
FORNOSA                 3,230             320             180           3,730
MISIONES                   70               7                4             81
CORRIENTES              3,420             340              190          3,950
CHACO                   1,010             100               56          1,166
ENTRE RIOS              2,480             250              140          2,870
SANTA FE                3,600             360              198          4,158
BUENOS AIRES            1,283             168               73          1,524
GRAND TOTAL EDUCACION                                         |        17,479
Cost in this column includes some rounding and special allowaces per location.



Attachment 2
-51-                     Page 11 of 19
Detail of Construction Work and CoSt by Province
(Architecture -Engineering)
A.   FORMOSA
1. Primary Schools and KindercIarten
Schools No.: 8, 21, 169, 241, 302, 372, 492, F9, F17, P11 and
Kindergarten No. 10, in Clorinda and boundary zone, rehab. civ. work
and inst., 8,500 mts2                                                         1,275
Schools No.: F.15, 300, 481, F3, 33, 460, 239, 75, 495, 203, 171,
211, 1, 232 in different locations, rehab. civ. work and inst.,
3,350 mts2                                                                      503
Schools No.: 75, 239, 300, F3, 495, structural rehab., 1700 mts2              1,000
2. Evacuation Center
Schools No.: 176, 195, 397, 410, 427, 454, 28, 2; Adult Center No.
24; and Educational Institute S.F. partial rehab.  6,500 mts2                   163
B.   MISIONES
Community Dining Rooms
10 Community dining rooms to be located in flooded areas, structural
rehab. 600 mts2                                                                  70
C.   CORRIENT1S 
1. Primary Schools
Schools No.: 178, in Curtizu Cuatia, rehab. work civ. and inst., 40
mts2                                                                             14
Schools No.: 466, 714, 638, 627, 271, 625, 465, 166, 641, 633, 168,
171, 255, 260, 283, 169, 170, 263, 284, 405, 634, 635, 636, 639,
659, 769, 712, 713, 834, 912, in Esquina, rehab. work civ. and
inst., 6,591 mts2                                                            1,110
Schools No.: 770, 348, 485, 679, 367, 295 292, 319, 866, 579, 733,
276, 277, 320, 310, 948, 67, in Goya, rehGb. work civ. and inst.,
4,804 mts2                                                                      894
Schools No.:  123, 18, 226, in Alvear, rehab. work civ. and inst.,
1,914 mts2                                                                      237
Schools No.:  426, 789, 458, in Lavalle, rehab. work civ. and inst.,
1,385 mts2                                                                      333
School No. 411, in Monte Caseros, rehab. work civ. and inst., 200
mts2                                                                             40
School No. 285, in San Luis del Palmar, rehab. work civ. and inst.,'
280 mts2                                                                         98
Schools No. 499, 102, 337, 853, 858, 104, 423, in San Cosme, rehab.
work civ. and inst., 3,504 mte2                                                 343
School No. 687, in Santo Tome, rehab. work civ. and inst., 1,782 mts2
(40W)                                                                          107
2. High Schools
Prov. High School, at Itati, rehab. work. civ., 2,400 mts2                      120
Prov. Training College at Guemes prov., Dpmt. of San Luis del
Palmar, rehab. work civ., 5,833 mts2 (30&)                                       83
School No. 142, at Dpto. of Santo Tomd, rehab. work civ. and inst.,
1,123 mts2 (40t)                                                                 36



Attachment 2
-52-                     Page 12 of 19
~~~~~~~. :~~            g                                    .*-. -     i!. .-. v  .
1.  Primary Schools_
Schools No. 18, Pto. Bermejo, rehab. work civ. and inst., 1,580 mts2
Schools No. 796 y 615, Cerrito Island, rehab. work civ. and inst.,             316
1,109 mts2
School No. 797, Riacho Soto, rehab. work civ. and inst., 130 mt.2              222
School No. 261, Pto. Antequera, rehab. work civ. and inst., 172 mts2            26
School No. 805, Riacho Ancho, rehab. work civ. and inst., 113 mts2              34
School No. 566, Pto. Las Palmas, rehab. work civ. and inst., 407 mts2           23
School No. 565, Santa Rosa Island, rehab. work civ. and inst., 481              81
mts2                                                                            96
2.  High Sghools
High School level School. No. 27, Pto. Bermejo, rehab. work civ. and            75
inst., 376 mts2
1.  Primary Schools
Schools No. 60 y 85, Dpto. of Coldn, rehab. work civ. and inst.,
1,940 mts2                                                                      15
Schools No. 44, 17, 53, 2, 1, 35, Dpto. of Concordia, rehab. work
civ. and inst., 8,441 mts2                                                      36
School No. 39, 37, 25, Dpto. of Diamante, rehab. work civ. and
inst., 656 mts2
Schools No. .44 y 52, Dpto. of Federaci6n, rehab. work civ. and                 35
inst., 1,114 mts2
Schools No. 29, 30, 40, 47, .72, y 11, Dpto. Gualeguay, rehab. work
civ. and inst., 729 mts2                                                         9
School No. 47, Dpto. Gualeguaychu, rehab. work civ. and inst. 172
mtS2                                                                            97
Schools No. 17, 10, 34, 28, 29, 22, 23, 72, 20, 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
18, 22, 31, Dpto. Islas, rehab. work civ. and inst., 894 mts2                    5
(s/dat.)                                                                       967
School No. 97, Dpto. La Paz, rehab. work civ. and inst., 192 mts2               60
School No. 3, Dpto. Parana, rehab. work civ. and inst., 90 mts2                 10
School No. 84, Dpto. Uruguay, rehab. work civ. and inst., 130 mts2              10
Schools Nos. 63, 24, 26,36,37,40,41,42,45,46,54,59,11,28,58                    750
2.  High Schools and Colleoe
Schools No. 84 y 96, Dept. Islas, rehab. work civ. and inst. 172 mts2           67
Teachers Institute, Dpto. Islas, rehab. work civ. and inst.                      7
School B.P.N.M. No. 100, Dpmt. Parana, rehab. work civ. and inst.,
150 Mts2                                                                        12



Attachment 2
53                     Page 13 of 19
1. Primary School
School No. 433, 869, 39, 95, 1311, 444, 6312, 6101, 1152, 563, 606,
1131, 6103, 112, 155, 6367, 2012, 829, 308, 577, 1021, 41, 533, 941,
6319, 6085, 6006, 51, 1081, 161, 249, 255, 225, 899, 189, 825, 133,
299, 84, 456, 1275, in different locations, rehab. work civ. and
inst., 16,175 mts2                                                          2,809
School No. 1177, 1138, 1207, 867, 1312, 377, 1139, in differents
locations, structural rehab. 1,436 mts2                                       775
1. Primary Schools
28 Schools at Partidos de Ramallo, San Pedro, Baradero, Zarate,
Campana, Escobar, Tigre, San Fernando, San Isidro and Vicente Lopez,
rehab. work civ. and inst., 7,840 mte                                       1,116
The total cost of rehabilitation for the educational sector in the 7
affected provinces corresponds to 268 facilities, about 90,000 mts2
in architecture-engineering-equipament works and technical
assistance.                                                                17,479



Attachment 2
- 54 -                   Page 14 of 19
HEATTH FACILITIES COST BY PROVINCES:
PROVINCE      ARCHITECTURE      EQUIPMENT       TECHNICAL         TOTAL
ENGINEERING*                     ASSISTANCE
FORMOSA                   670              130              40             840
MISIONES                    70              14               4              88
CORRIENTES                810              150              48           1,008
CHACO                     740              270              51           1,061
ENTRE RIOS                 730             150              44             924
SANTA FE                  900              180              54           1,134
GRAND TOTAL HEALTH                                                       5,055
The figures in this column include some rounding and allowances per location



Attacbment 2
-55-                     Page 15 of 19
Detail of Construetion Works and Cost by Province
1. First Aid Rooms
1 in Isla 25 de mayo, 2 in Clorinda and 1 in Riacho Negro, rehab.
civ. works - 160 mtst                                                      50
2. Health Centers
3 in Clorinda and 1 in Banco Payagua, rehab. civ. works and inst.,
730 mts2                                                                  252
3. Hospitals
Clorinda Hospital, rehab. civil works and inst., 5,570 mts2               279
-r'''~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~. .......       . ... -.'- ''';'E 'N:aEE   - - .  i..  .. X... ..:    ....
Health Centers
District Tiro Federal, rehab. civil works and inst., 174 mts2               70
"-  -- -----
Hospitals
Itati Hospital, rehab. civil works and inst., 1,500 mts2                  525
Paso de la Patria Hospital, rehab. civil works and inst., 800 mts2        280
1. Sanitary Posts
Isla del Cerrito, rehab. civil works and inst., 262 mts2                   79
Las Palmas "A", rehab. civil works and inst., 321 mts2                      33
Las Palmas "B", rehab. civil works and inst., 73 mts2                       36
Puerto Bermejo, turn it into hospital, 600 mts2                           400
2. Hosnitals
Hospital Dr. Arturo Fleming, La Leonesa, rehab. obra civ. e inst.,
367 mts2                                                                   110
Rural Hospital Gral. Vedia, rehab. civil works and inst., 272 mts2          82
1. Health Centers
Arroyo Merlo Center, rehab. civil works and inst., 118 mts2                 18
Nancay Center, structural rehab., 90 mts2                                   50
Charigue Center, structural rehab., 90 mts2                                 50
2. Hospitals
Paranacito, structural rehab., 548 mts2                                    100
Behering, structural rehab., 800 mts2                                      420



Attacbment 2
-56-                    Page 16 of 19
F.  SAMTA 19 X 
1.  Comunitv. Centers
Pto. Reconquista Center, structural rehab., 70 mts2                         42
Los Zapallos Center, structural rehab., 70 mts2                             32
Helvecia Norte Center, structural rehab. 70 mts2                            32
Saladero Cabal Center, structural rehab.,100 mts2                           56
Criolla Center, San Javier, structural rehab., 60 mts2                      32
Rincon Norte Center, structural rehab., 77 mts2                             56
Colastine Norte Center, structural rehab., 80 mts2                          42
La Guardia Center, rehab. civil works and inst., 130 wits2                  13
Alto Verde Center, structural rehab., 77 mtO2                               42
Accion Familiar Alto Verde, structural rehab., 234 mts2                    108
San Jose del Rincon Center, structural rehab., 70 mts2                      42
2.  Nursina Homes
San Jose del Rincon, structural rehab., 204 mts2                            77
3. Hospitals
San Javier Hospital, rehab. and inst. of engineering                        60
Santa Rosa, rehab. and inst. of engineering                                 30
Prov. Hospital Dr. J.X. Cullen, rehab. and inst. of engineering            120
Total cost of rehabilitation of health sector, buildings with a
total area of about 13,000 mts2 in architecture-engineering-equipment
works and tecni cal asistance.
5,055



Attachment 2
57                    Page 17 of 19
Financing of Water and Sewerage Works
The various components required for the rehabilitation of water and sewerage
services in the cities affected by the flood could be financed through the following
three sources: .(a) Loan 3280-AR (amended), the proposed emergency loan, and loan 3281
(water sector loan). Sources (a) and (b) will have explicit requirements to finance
water and sewerage works. Loan 3281-AR is effective and could be used immediately
under its own financing conditions.
Financing source (c), Loan 3281-AR, allows under Part B of Schedule 2 of the
Loan Agreement, and para. 3 of schedule 4 of the Project agreement, financing of
rehabilitation works in cities larger than 15,000 inhabitants without any other
requirement than a technical report and under the following conditions: (i) financing
would not exceed US$10 per inhabitant of the proposed city to be rehabilitated and
in any case financing should not exceed US$1 million per city.
in discussions with sector authorities of the affected provinces, some of them
have decided to use Loan 3281-AR. The total amount to be used is about US$3.86
million without contingencies.  The provinces, cities and amounts (in US millions),
to be included are the following: FORMOSA, Clorinda (US$0.95, FORMOSA (US$1.0);
MISIONES, Posadas (US$0.52), Garupa (US$0.88), Puerto Rico (US$0.08)1 ENTRE RIOS, La
Paz (US$0.13), Parana (US$0.04), Diamante US$0.08), Victoria (US$0.24), Gualeguaychu
(US$0.11), Concepcion del Uruguay (US$0.18), Colon (US$0.16), Concordia (US$0.22).
R)iABILITATION PROGRAM WATER AND SEWERAGE WORKS
Work Descriptions and Costs by Cities and Provinces
DETAIL OF WORKS BY CITIES AND PROVINCES                            US$ mill
PROVINCE OF FORMOSA TOTAL                                            1.7
Clorinda total                                                       1.7
1. Rehabilitation of sewerage                                        0.25
2. Rehabilitation of sewage treatment lagoon                         0.29
3. New water pumping station                                         0.45
4. Rehabilitation of water treatment plant                           0.36
5. Reconstruction of water distribution system                       0.35
PROVINCIA OF MISIONES TOTAL                                          0.48
Santa Ana Total                                                      0.06
1. Rehabilitation of water pumping station                           0.06



Attachment 2
-58-                      Page 18 of 19
Candelaria Total                                                     0.06
0.06
2. Rehabilitation of water pumping station
El Soberbio Total                                                    0.06
3. Rehabilitation of water pumping station                           0.06
4. Rehabilitation of wells                                           0.30
PROVINCIA OF ENTRB RIOS                                              1.25
Santa Elena Total                                                    0.58
1. Water intake and pumping station                                  0.58
Victoria                                                             0.12
2. Rehabilitation of sewage interceptor                              0.12
Gualenguay                                                           0.48
3. Rehabilitation of sewage interceptor                              0.48
Ibicuy                                                               0.07
4. Rehabilitation of sewage pumping station                          0.07
PROVINCIA DE SANTA FE                                                8.54
Santa Fe                                                             3.10
1. Rehabilitation of sewage pumping station                          0.60
2. Rehabilitatior. of NE sewage pumping station                      0.50
3. Rehabilitation of sewage collectors _ONAVI                        1.50
4. Rehabilitation of sewarage FOlAcVI                                0.50
Reconquista Total                                                    5.80
1. Rehabilitation of water intake                                    3.50
2. Rehabilitation of water intake and pier                           1.30
3. Rehabilitation of water intake                                    1.00
PROVINCE OF CHACO TOTAL                                              0.92
Puerto Bermejo Total                                                 0.92
1. Rehabilitation of water and sewerage system                       0.92
PROVINCTA DE CORRIENqTES TOTAL                                       0.76
Goya                                                                 0.76



Attachment 2
-59-                       Page 19 of 19
1. Rehabilitation of storm water drainage                            0.76
Esquina                                                           . _l
1. Rehabilitation of storm water drainage                             0.2
Saladas
1. Rehabilitation of storm water drainage                             0.3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                  0.96
TOTrL INVESTMENT IN WATER AND SEWERAGE                               15.11



- 60 -
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 1
Total Population by Province: 1970-1985
000's
Provinces                1970      1980       1985     Absolute Change       Annual Rates
70/80     80/85       70/80    80/85
Buenos Aires            8774.5   10865.4   12090.9    2090.9    1225.5         2.16     2.16
Santa Fe                2135.6    2465.5    2649.2      330.0      183.6       1.45     1.45
Entre Rios               811.7     908.3      960.9      96.6       52.5       1.13     1.13
Chaco                    566.6     701.4      780.4     134.8       79.0       2.16     2.16
Corrientes               564.1     661.5      716.2      97.3       54.8       1.60     1.60
Formosa                  234.1     295.9      332.7       61.8      36.8       2.37     2.37
Misiones                 443.0     589.0      679.1      146.0      90.1       2.89     2.89
Source INDEC
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 2
Households with Unsatisfied Basic Needs by Province:1980
Provinces               Absolute       t of       % of
Provincial National Accumulated
Total      Total       e
Buenos Aires            568,925         19.9      35.9       40.2
Santa Fe                132,666         20.0       8.4       59.5
Entre Rios               61,360         27.9       3.9       68.7
Chaco                    67,410        44.0        4.3       84.7
Corrientes               56,889        40.6        3.6       88.3
Formosa                  28,732        46.8        1.8       90.1
M4isiones                50,553         39.2       3.2       96.5
Source: IND8C, La Pobreza en la Argentina, n.d.



- 61 -
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 3
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 3
Gross Provincial Product by Province: 1970-1985
Millions of US$ of July 1988
Provinces                  1970       1980      1985       Absolute Change        Annual Rates
70/80     80/85        70/80    80/85
Buenos Aires              15750.4   19021.8   20037.3    3271.4    1015.5          1.91     1.05
Santa Fe                   4114.4    5650.4    5729.3    1536.0         79.0       3.22     0.28
intre Rios                 1183.4    1319.3    1217.5       135.9    -101.8        1.09    -1.59
Corrientes                  637.7      866.1      793.2     228.4      -72.9       3.11    -1.74
Formosa                     196.3      246.3      251.1      50.0        4.8       2.29     0.39
Misiones                    336.2      628.2      581.0     291.9      -47.1       6.45    -1.55
Source CFI
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 4
Gross Provincial Product per Capita by Province: 1970-1985
US$ of July 1988
Provinces                   1970       1980       1985      Absolute Change      Annual Rates
70/80     80/85      70/80    80/85
Buenos Aires               1795.0    1750.7    1657.2        -44.3     -93.4      -0.25    -1.09
Santa Fe                   1926.6    2291.7    2162.7       365.2    -129.1        1.75    -1.15
Entre Rios                 1458.0    1452.5    1267.1         -5.S    -185.4      -0.04    -2.69
Chaco                       823.3    1017.0       816.1     193.7    -200.9        2.14    -4.31
Corrientes                 1130.3    1309.4    1107.5       179.1    -201.9        1.48    -3.29
Formosa                     838.6      832.3      754.7       -6.3     -77.5      -0.08    -1.94
Misiones                    758.9    1066.5       855.6     307.6    -211.0        3.46    -4.31
Source INDEC



- 62 -
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 5
Annual Rate of Change of Gross Provincial Product by Sector and Province:
1970/1985
Provinces      Total   Agri-  Mining   Manu-  Public  Const. Producer Commerce Finance Personal
cultu-           factu- Utilitie        Services           Insuran.Services
re               re
Buenos Aires      1.62    2.25   -1.12    1.14    S.42   -2.66    1.40    3.87    1.99    1.84
Santa Fe          2.23    1.25    3.80    3.20    4.39   -1.80    1.13    3.66    0.97    2.54
Entre Rios        0.19   -0.37    0.18   -1.29   14.18    1.34   -5.03    1.74    0.03    3.17
Chaco             2.10    2.09    6.66   -0.82    8.36    1.98    1.41    0.77    1.94    3.93
Corrientes        1.47    1.42    6.55    1.74    8.87   -0.84   -0.26    2.51    1.54    1.65
Formosa           1.65   -0.26   20.99   -2.02   11.89   -0.29   -3.92    6.91    3.88    6.09
Misiones          3.71    2.25   -7.49    3.02   12.18    4.27    1.72    5.09    1.03    4.67
Source CFI
ARGENTINA
Flood Rehabilitation Project
Table 6
Gross Provincial Product by Sector and Province: 1985
Millions of USM of July 1988
Provinces     Total  Agricul- Mining Manufac- Public  Const. Producer Commerce Finance Personal
ture             ture    Utilitie        Services           Insuran.Services
1        2       3        4        5      6          7       8        9
Buenos Aires 20037.3  3412.3    50.0  8520.4   638.9   552.0  2201.3  1948.8   968.9  1744.7
Santa Fe      5729.3  1003.4       2.0  1958.6   167.5   106.4   913.7   700.0   269.3   608.4
Entre Rios    1217.5   313.4    16.8   165.3    98.6    66.0   109.3    97.9    96.0   254.1
Chaco          636.9   178.3       1.5    52.9    17.8    45.0    99.2    34.7    45.8   161.7
Corrientes     793.2   222.0    11.0   145.5    23.1    39.2    72.0    47.8    60.4   172.3
Formosa        251.1    51.9       1.4    21.3      5.4    22.1    19.3    17.9    10.3   101.6
Misiones        581.0   127.9      1.2    85.6    28.5    95.6       7.4    57.5    20.7   156.6
Source CFI



- 63 -
ARGErNTA FLOOD REUALl"rAMON PROJECr
hgtS,anon Schodule
Poetbtmteon  by mauer
199                                 199                                                  1994
4                            2                            4              1              2               3
_     Yoomovif              36             S2            68             S0             90             00-
A nm  USM V                 87            126            16S           194            219            243             .
cwu won                                 s729           ItS           140            159            183             .
Equpmet                   4              9              14            19            24             24
Tebnl                                   6              8             10             11             11
Asta.                     3
Housing
Gtan                          8              16            25             25             25            2S
Poea%Plt                    1s             36            52             68             so            90             100
A=OUuLUSSM                  49             97            140           183            216           243             270
of    : wh:_                                                                                                                        '
aiwn Wob                 32             60            82            113            136            153            180
Fore Aacouat                6              12            17             22            26             30              30
Equipmet                    2              6             11             16            20             24              24
Technica
Aaistue                     1              3              5             7              9             11              11
Housin                      S             16             25            25             25             25              2S
Guam                      _     ____                                                                                    __
Peat l.                     13             26            40             53             66            In              90             100
Am USSM                                    44            68             90 I1 1 2                   133            1I3              1 7
1./ERpnsb  to percmaz_g of tal eqend e.
' awoumts do nat includoe the equalen of 7,000,, which may be carried t throuagb      accoun.



I8RD 24059
70'       S OLIVIA        /      o                                 o
PARAGUAY
x         N CHACO     BRAZIL
\   \   RIOJ   5 *SANTIAGO° 
S~~~~~ETR
t~~~~ A                    SA INE    0
30-
\  { JUAN  \    CORDOZA}    /  |  <     ,- ,
ENTRIE~~~~~~~~~~~~ F~
U)  $                    s  UGUAURUGUAY '7
O     II 0O%                                                     \
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
U-~~~~~~~~~W
U .                      L A          A I R E S 
,/ R10        < FLOOD REHABILITATION
40"                  NEGRO<                          PROJECT                   40
PROVINCES AFFECTED BY FLOOD
A)fected Aree
National Capital
- (  Province Boundorios
Interntional Boundaries
MiLes 0   100  200  300  400  500
.      j        f SANTA  (       LOMIERS 0    200   400   600   a0
2  F   CRUZS         ~~~FALKLAND ISLANDS
07 { I   I            th4~~~fALVI NASJ
- (-'In                  ~~~~~~~~50%
9  >   , j     ~~~~A DISPUTE CONcrlCf ~ING -jrsrv 01     I5
,filS SUhECf5.O'Ah0    it -     ,1(1 A?; I, VIS   .
t IE R R~ERA                              pw
DEL
40;               O7         FUEGO   40
JULY 1992



IBRD 24060
{  '- cui*t                    B~~~ R A Z I L
Cuiab§
BO   L I VI A                                 '                                     BRASILIA
Goiania
-EL>
NPANTANA L>)
- orumbo                         pa )\fb
l   n  {       \s               ~~~ ~ ~~~~Orandede \)
>  PARAGUAY    Bot
:- Po   0,p,Bauruo t
SALTA                                   ~~~~~Lo OD    EH BIITIO
9 > NCIONNSG"ti~~~~~~~~uara                                                      r
SNTLGO'  S- 
DEL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~OSLETDCTE
7ER       CHACORO                                                           C
C. AO      a          The odn pT. u   n
[ <     R U>S                                           ~~~~~~~PROJECT 
| - ,>4~~~~~MONTEVIDEO                                             I FLOODEDARES
/ X , /~~WA                                                          SWAMS
SOUTH                         \BASIN BOUNDSIES
A AMER     e MRInC A   M       an s                                 -     ASUBNSAN BOUNDARIES
Amh of M        
1 J-L  J   /                                       °~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CMES
~~~~ 6Ct Ng~~~~~~IONAL CAPITALS
G h(rforth contienceof rrand isfor he ;emol un of          -POtNCE BOUNDARES
e  it  ~Aflonfic   Tho Worl llenk Group The dencom;ic uusd and th
Ocean   boundarod Bank Group, ean  domnt on telealta   of eny  NATIONAL OOUNDAIES
t_rntory or any ondorseit or accptane of such bundari.
JULY 1992



