Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18769
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
THE FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3521-AR)
January 4, 1999
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS,
[exchange rate as of July 1, 1992 (fixed march 31, 1991)]
Currency Unit                Peso (Arg$)
US$1.00             =        Arg$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
VVEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gallon            =       3.785 liters
1 mile              =        1.609 kilometers
I pound             =       0.454 kg
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
GoA       -    Government of Argentina
INCYTH  -   Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hidrica
National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology
MERCOSUR -  Common Market Agreement among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and
Uruguay
PG        -    Provincial Governments
POM       -    Project Operational Manual
SAFP      -   Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias
-    Secretariat for Financial Assistance to the Provinces
SOEs      -    Statement of Expenditures
SUCCE   -   Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinacion para la Emergencia
Central Sub-Unit for the Coordination of Emergencies
SUPCE   -   Sub- Unidad Provincial de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia
Provincial Sub-Unit for the Coordination of Emergencies
UEC       -    Unidad Ejecutiva Central
Central Executing Unit
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Myma Alexander
Sector Director:           Danny Leipziger
Team Leader:               Abel Mejia



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
THE FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3521-AR)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface ................................................................................         i
Evaluation Summary ................................................................................    ii
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background .1
B. Project Objectives and Description                        .3
C. Project Design and Preparation                           .6
D. Project Implementation                               .7
E. Project Results                                  .9
F. Project Sustainability .13
G. Bank Performance .14
H. Borrower Performance .15
I. Assessment of Outcome .17
J. Future Operation .17
K. Project Sustainability .17
L. Key Lessons Learned .18
Part II - Statistical Annexes
Table 1:               Summary of Assessments .21
Table 2:               Related Bank Loans/Credits .22
Table 3:               Project Timetable .23
Table 4:               Loan Disbursements .24
Table 5:              Key indicators for Project Implementation .25
Table 6:              Key Indicators for Project Operation .26
Table 7:               Studies Included in Project .27
Table 8A:    Project Costs .31
Table 8B:              Project Financing .32
Table 9:              Economic Benefits (Avoided Damages) .33
Table 10:              Status of Legal Covenants .34
Table 11:              Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .35
Table 12:             Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .36
Table 13:              Bank Resources: Missions .37
Annex 1:               Housing Component .39
Annex 2:               Project Summary Calendar .40
Appendixes:
A  Aide-Memoire .....................      ........................................................    41
B - Borrower contribution to the ICR ..................................................... ........................   52
C-Map .............................................................................    65
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Flood Rehabilitation
Project in Argentina, for which Loan 3521-0, 3521-S, and 3521-A totaling in the amount
of US$170.0 million equivalent was approved on September 29, 1992 and made effective
on March 24, 1993.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1998, five and half years after Board approval
and three years beyond the original closing date of March 31, 1995. Final disbursement
took place on July 22, 1998 under converted Loan 3521A-AR, leaving a balance of
US$2.8 million in the loan account which was canceled on July 31, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Adrien Campbell from the Finance, Private Sector and
Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and Caribbean Region. Abel Mejia
(Task Manager) and Armando Araujo, former Task Manager, made contributions to the
report. The ICR was reviewed by Asif Faiz (Sector Leader for Argentina, Chile, and
Uruguay CMU), Maria Victoria Lister (LCSFP), Morag Van Pragg (LOAEL) and Ferenc
Molnar (LEGLA).
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission (March
9-26, 1998). The ICR is based on: (i) trimester project advancement reports and a
project completion report prepared by the borrower's executing unit, Sub-Unidad Central
de Coordinacionpara la Emergencia (SUCCE); (ii) materials in the Bank's project files;
(iii) Bank staff s experience and observations during visits to the field and discussions
with the SUCCE staff; (iv) and the Bank's Back-to-Office reports and aide-memoire,
which are in the project files. The borrower also contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by assisting the Bank to effectively participate in discussions during the missions,
and commenting on the earlier draft of the ICR. The current ICR takes into account the
comments made by the Borrower. The Borrower's contribution is included as Appendix
B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
The project was designed as an emergency response to damage from severe floods
caused by the 1991/92 El Nifno phenomena, which created US$905 million in economic
losses. Damage occurred in the seven littoral provinces of Argentina--Buenos Aires,
Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones, and Santa Fe--of the Parana, Paraguay
and Uruguay River basins during the last months of 1991 and the first months of 1992.
The project objectives helped finance flood reconstruction needs in the seven affected
provinces and provide a sound institutional framework for the coordination and
implementation of the overall Government rehabilitation program. The specific project
activities, designed to restore normal economic activity in the areas affected, included
assisting in the rehabilitation of essential transport infrastructure, social infrastructure,
and flood control works. The objectives of the rehabilitation were to restore service
capacity of damaged infrastructure. In addition, project design included: (i) a technical
assistance component for studies to be done for the preparation of a follow-up project to
increase the optimal level of protection against severe recurrent floods; and (ii) the
financing of an interim early flood warning system that would be upgraded and finalized
during the follow-up operation.
Project design was based on the Bank's previous experience with similar
reconstruction efforts elsewhere and Bank norms for such projects. The project financed
rehabilitation of transport and power infrastructure, emergency flood control works,
housing through a self-help scheme, education and health facilities and water supply and
drainage works; and technical assistance to strengthen and improve the capacity of
institutions responsible for project implementation, flood forecasting and mitigation of
future disasters.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
The project was completed in five years, three years beyond the overly unrealistic
completion timeframe for such a large-scale rehabilitation program. Nevertheless, 90
percent of the physical works were completed by the end of 1995. The major obstacles
affecting implementation were as follows:
* Project Loan effectiveness was not achieved until six months after Board approval.
This delay was due to time consuming bureaucratic steps required for loan signing
and the subsequent approval of the subsidiary loan agreements with the affected



provinces. Fortunately, some activities and project implementation arrangements
were started earlier, with US$20.0 million from the Provincial Development I Project
(Loan 3280-AR), which was amended to address the flood emergency.
* Some delays may also be attributed to the lack of experience by the provincial
executing agencies in regards to the Bank's procurement and administrative
procedures.
*  In 1995, two years into implementation, the national government became financially
constrained by the Tequila crisis and began accruing delays in providing its share of
counterpart funds; this continued each year thereafter until May 1997 when the
government caught up with its obligations. The same occurred with the provincial
governments and their obligatory share of counterpart funds in 1996. These delays
resulted in late payments to contractors and several slow downs; in some cases the
contractors stopped construction until back payments were received.
* Further delays, of 18 months are attributed to the additional time required to correct
engineering design flaws discovered during construction of certain more complex
works.
Even though the project was executed in five years, this was still a reasonable
timeframe considering: (i) the size and technical complexity of the project; (ii) the
number of sectors it encompassed; (iii) that the works were small in scale and spread out
in remote locations; and (iv) the number of new executing agencies without experience in
Bank operations.
Project Results
Despite the initial delays, the project fully achieved its physical and non-physical
objectives. The rehabilitation of key economic and social infrastructure has provided
adequate protection to the affected populations and urban economic activities, as shown
in subsequent flood episodes, including the 1997/98 El Nifio. Moreover, the key
stakeholders in the provinces have realized the importance of properly operating and
maintaining the newly rehabilitated infrastructure.
As mentioned, the physical investments made have been extremely beneficial given
the recent floods and an economic analysis of investments made in eight principle urban
areas show an internal economic rate of return of 35.1 percent. In regards to the social
programs that were executed, the impact has been equally as beneficial, especially in
poverty alleviation through the project's self-help housing program. The institutional
strengthening and the studies executed have effectively improved emergency
coordination and identified a strategy for future structural and non-structural investments.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
The achievement of the project's objectives should be sustainable; the key
indicators for project sustainability being:



iv
* Institutional/Management Effectiveness. The establishment of the borrower's central
executing agency, Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia
(SUCCE) and the provincial executing agencies, Sub- Unidad Provincial de
Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia (SUPCEs), provided an effective institutional
framework to coordinate emergency recovery actions between the federal and
provincial governments. It is recommended that these units be converted into
permanent entities within the Ministry of Interior and the provincial governments.
* Housing Program. A post implementation risk identified was that after completion of
the new homes, families would sell their homes and return to the areas unprotected by
the defense system or within the 50-year flood plane. However, this risk has not
appeared to materialize to date. The improved sanitary and health conditions, along
with the provision of social programs, are strong incentives to prevent a return to
former precarious conditions, continued occupancy of the new homes by the original
beneficiaries is highly likely.
* Public Awareness/Commitment. The 1990's have witnessed an alarmingly increasing
number of severe floods, especially the latest linked to the 1997/98 El Nifno
phenomenon. During the past five years, affected citizens have directly benefited
from the flood protection defenses and the associated economic and life saving
potential several times. With such a strong visual and mental experience associated
with the protection works, the support from the local population, the media, and the
politicians has come wholeheartedly. Sustainable commitment has been further
demonstrated by the eagerness of local populations to have the works that are being
financed by the follow-up Flood Protection Project to start immediately in their
municipalities.
* Technical and Economic Factors. The investments in civil works were aimed at
rehabilitating existing infrastructure through a quick and locally competitive
tendering process that assured a cost-effective solution. The follow-up project aims
to increase the level of protection to its optimal level, considering the socio-economic
factors involved. Technical sustainability and realization of the investment's
economic return should be guaranteed through appropriate operation and maintenance
that is carried out when there is strong public and political support.
* Flood Protection Project. The activities that are being carried out under the follow-
up Flood Protection Project will enhance sustainability. The new local laws and
river-basin-wide coordinating arrangements should help strengthen the local
governments' flood preparedness and mitigation systems. Furthermore, the new
project will ensure that the well-trained and competent staff of SUCCE and the
SUPCEs continue to provide the strong technical and institutional support required
for sustaining project investments.
* El Nino Emergency Flood Project. This new emergency operation includes the
rehabilitation of structural damage from the 1997/98 El Ni-no phenomenon in the
littoral provinces of Argentina, thus assuring major repairs of urban defenses



V
necessitated by the prolonged floods. In addition, the project will include the
northwestern provinces of Argentina for both preventive structural measures and non-
structural measures, which will be carried out to mitigate the potential impacts of La
Nifia in late 1998.
Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned
This project on a whole is rated fully satisfactory. Even though the project was
completed with delay (due to financial constraints and an unrealistic implementation
plan), all objectives were achieved. Project benefits have already been realized during
the recent floods. The key lessons learned from this project are as follows:
Emergency Project Design. One of the key lessons, already applied to other
Argentine flood rehabilitation and protection projects, is that physical rehabilitation alone
is not sufficient to sustain long-term benefits, as well as provide an effective level of
protection. Even in emergency projects, funding should be allocated for the development
of non-structural measures that establish the capacity to manage future emergencies at
provincial and local levels.
Although the project took an additional three years to complete beyond its original
two-year design, its implementation still has to be considered an achievement given the
multi-sector scope of the project. These delays resulted from an initial lack of executing
units with experience in Bank funded operations, the lack of detailed engineering plans
for the works, subsequent budget constraints, and the need to redesign some complex
works. The successes achieved can be replicated and further improved by considering
the following principles: (i) using simple and easy investments to implement with
adequate design standards; (ii) using a flexible project design that is not over-specified;
(iii) ensuring participation of interested provinces with adequate counterpart financing
from the tax revenue sharing system; (iv) maintaining competent local executing units
with the capacity to deal with emergencies; (v) enabling flexibility to shift funds among
eligible provinces, including a portion of funds as unallocated for unforeseen activities;
and (vi) preparing a well formulated but simple project operation's manual.
Consideration should be given to realistic completion schedules when preparing
emergency loans, especially ones as complex as this one.
Policy Lessons. (a) The institutional set-up of the SUCCE-SUPCE framework was
crucial to the project's implementation and its sustainability in maintaining an effective
method of communication and coordination among the provincial and federal
governments. Project activities progressed well because of decentralized decision
making by provincial implementing units, with relatively light handed central
Government control, and the fact that the provincial implementing units also remained
small and focused on establishing effective collaboration with established line agencies.
(b) Emergency operations that involve voluntary resettlement through a housing
component should assist in the definition of land use regulations that forbid new
inhabitants from resettling the land that is at risk. Otherwise such legal and institutional
aspects should be addressed in a follow-up project to prevent such human occupation and
settlement of land in high-risk areas (in this case, the follow-up Flood Protection Project).



vi
(c) Emergency recovery assistance in most developing countries should be viewed
as only a first step to restore economic and financial activities. The Bank's assistance
should continue in a follow-up operation that provides assistance to implement medium
to long-term risk mitigation and prevention goals established during the emergency
operation.
(d) Restricting development in floodplains and preserving the ecosystem are better
achieved and supported through the use of fiscal incentives, effective land use and
management practices, and sound govermmental policies and programs aimed at avoiding
further environmental degradation. These approaches to risk prevention and mitigation
are less costly and more effective than physical measures, as recited in the Bank's policy
paper on Water Resources Management (April 30, 1993) and incorporated in the design
of the follow-up Flood Protection Project.
Implementation Lessons. (a) In view of the emergency and because the repair and
reconstruction works were relatively small in size and executed in scattered locations in
seven provinces, procurement procedures for eligible subprojects were simplified in line
with Bank guidelines to facilitate speedy implementation. As nearly 99 percent of the
works was awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB), quotation, or direct
contracting, the Bank's prior review was limited to the first two NCB contracts per year
with the remaining review conducted on a spot-check basis in the field. In order to
provide assurance that the Bank's procurement procedures and funds were being properly
used, project audits took place semi-annually instead of annually.
(b) Delays occurred with respect to the implementation schedule because SUCCE's
analysis of the proposed sub-projects for their technological and environmental
appropriateness and adequacy was not considered. An adequate time allowance should
be made for such reviews in all emergency operations, as sub-project evaluation is not
based on an ex-ante project evaluation process.
(c) Experience has shown that multi-sector projects tend to be difficult to
implement and complete on time. However, in this project delays were attributed to
particular engineering and construction problems and counterpart funding shortages,
which could not be foreseen at the start. The multi-sector nature of the project had no
significant influence on implementation delays.
(d) The use of a structured implementation framework with a very capable project
executing unit staffed by a team of experienced consultants in several infrastructure
sectors of the operation was a key factor in the successful implementation of this
emergency operation. The staff should be recruited competitively and paid according to
market standards to guarantee a high level of quality and to minimize staff turnover.
(e) Emergency operations require a strong commitment not only from the
Borrower, but also from the Bank in terms of supervision. This project benefited from
several supervision missions that included extensive field visits and on-site inspections.
Emergency loans need to be designed with a flexible implementation framework and



vii
visible Bank presence in order to assist in adapting the project to meet unforeseen
demands and to successfully manage and remove implementation bottlenecks.
Community Participation. The participation of beneficiaries and affected parties in
planning, designing, implementing and managing the project is essential to ensure a
satisfactory outcome of an emergency project. This was especially relevant in the
housing and shelter component. The interaction in local communities between
beneficiaries and the local authorities resulted in the timely availability of construction
materials and the incorporation of local customs in the architectural design of the new
houses. The housing program was also essential in attending to the poor (beneficiaries
with an average household income of US$156) and encompassing the participation of
women, whom input 36 percent of the total labor.
Project Financing. In order for an emergency loan to be implemented quickly,
overall Bank financing of an emergency operation should be a minimum of 60 to 70
percent. This minimizes the amount of counterpart funding requirements and unforeseen
fiscal adjustments required by the federal and local government and allows what little
government resources that remain to be used in other areas of relief that are not covered
by the Bank's project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3521-AR)
Part I - Implementation Assessment
A.   Background
The 1992 Flood
1.    Five of the ten most severe floods (measured in terms of annual daily peak charges)
recorded this century have occurred since 1982, with the 1982 event as the largest and the 1992
flood as the second largest of the century. At the end of 1991, unusually heavy rains began to fall
in the catchment areas of the Paraguay, Parana and Uruguay Rivers. As in most normal flood
years, these torrential downpours produced massive flows into the Parana River. These peak
flows in the rivers were higher and larger partly because the basin was already saturated and the
additional heavy rains in the middle of the Paraguay River Basin that began in March 1992 led to
peak river flows that coincided with the Parana's peak flows. Ultimately, the combined Paraguay
and Parana River flows crested at 55,000 m3/s (recorded in Corrientes City) in May/June 1992 at
almost four times the yearly average, affecting all seven littoral provinces in the Parana Basin and
contiguous areas of Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. Of the seven provinces (Buenos Aires,
Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones and Santa Fe), Formosa was the hardest hit,
followed by Chaco, Corrientes, and Entre Rios. The 1992 event recorded economic loses of
US$905 million, which has only been exceeded by that of the 1982/83, the largest recorded flood
of the century. The 1992-damage tally showed substantial output losses and that nearly one-third
of the damage occurred to the commerce and industry, while the poor in the peripheral urban
areas suffered disastrous consequences. In fact, the study carried out during project preparation
reported that the social ramifications to be more adverse than the effects on the productive
sectors, during this particular event.
Sector Objectives
2.    Clear, long-term sector objectives in relation to floodplain management prior to the
emergency were essentially non-existent. When disaster struck, the Central Governnent
established a national program to attend to the afflicted and by doing so, the program became the
sector objective of the Government at the time of project preparation. The program can be
described in three distinct phases. First, it established relief and rescue operations concentrating
on the evacuation of the affected population and providing them with shelter, blankets and food
rapidly. Secondly, river defenses were fortified in cities and towns near the rivers. Then the
authorities requested the Bank to assist in the preparation and financing of a program (Programa
de Rehabilitaci6npara las Inundaciones - PREI) to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure and



2
identify the basic requirements and objectives for preventing the recurrence of similar damage in
the future. Concurrently the Bank was asked to help the borrower meet these additional
requirements.
Floodplain Management in Argentina
3.    River basin and floodplain management is a fragmented and disorganized sector that
lacks: adequate infrastructure; appropriate environmental standards and regulations; and
institutional capacity. The two most generic and notable features of the sector are that: (a)
provinces have primary jurisdiction over water resources (except for navigation) despite the
reality that many river basins are inter-provincial, while the national legal and institutional
framework does not adequately address this imbalance; and (b) water resources characteristics
vary greatly among the country's regions and provinces and there is no consolidated policy and
institutional framework which has resulted in significantly uneven and poorly coordinated
infrastructure development.
4.    At the national level, the institutional framework has gone through some organizational
changes as of January 30, 1998, with the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable
Development, under the Office of the President, being responsible for establishing national water
policy. Formnerly this responsibility use to fall under the Direcci6n Nacional de Recursos
Hidricos (DNRH), a department of the Secretaria de Obras Publicas of the Ministry of Economy
and Public Works and Services. This new Secretariat has four under-secretariats, two of which
are directly linked to water management: the Under-Secretariat of Water Resources and the
Under-Secretariat of Environmental Regulation. The prior consists of two national bureaus. The
first is responsible for: (i) preparing proposals and carrying out policies, programs and projects
dealing with water resources and aimed at achieving sustainable development; (ii) proposing and
promoting strategies aimed at integrated river basin management; and (iii) evaluating and
promoting the setting and application of regulations aimed at water resource preservation and
protection. The second bureau is the Water Resource Administration, which is in charge of
carrying out projects and works and providing services.
5.    At the provincial level, the institutional situation is characterized by great diversity, but at
least two features are noteworthy. First, there has been a proliferation of institutions that have
overlapping missions and duties frequently involving more than two agencies belonging to
different Ministries or Secretariats. Second, in general, the overall management of water
resources is not well integrated under a clearly designated water agency. In terms of inter-
provincial water management, several river basin committees have been created as agencies that
coordinate water management among provinces linked by a common river basin. Unfortunately,
most are not operational, mainly because of budget restraints resulting from the recent fiscal
reforms. These committees are located outside of the littoral region of Argentina and are
essentially financially supported by contributions from hydroelectric companies in the affected
basins.
6.    In regards to the legal framework, there is significant national water legislation, however,
it lacks the basic framework which would allow provinces to establish consistent regulations for
users' rights and obligations, the economic value of water, the river basin as the primary
management unit, multi-sectoral user's organizations, and others. In part, this relates to the lack



3
of a national water resources management policy. At the provincial level, legal frameworks are
unevenly developed and inconsistent. Some provinces have well developed regulations while
others have no specific laws on a number of issues that affect them, such as organization of users,
water rights, management of aquifers, etc. Some provinces do not even have specific water
legislation. In other case, existing legislation is very old and does not incorporate new concepts
such as multi-sectoral management, economic criteria, institutional development, etc.
Bank Sector Lending
7.    The 1991/92 flood generated approximately US$905 million in economic loses, which
was the catalyst in the development of a long-term strategy to cope with recurrent floods in the
Parana River basin. The Bank's overall strategy calls for: (i) the improved management of the
basin's resources; (ii) a well-defined investment plan in structural measures; and (iii) the
definition of non-structural measures. Conceptually this strategy is in agreement with the
integrated river-basin approach, which has been identified throughout the world as a useful
means of dealing with broad water issues, including flow regulation and flood control
alternatives. To further implement this approach the Bank continues to support the country's
ongoing efforts of flood protection through two additional loans, the Flood Protection Project
(Loan 4117-AR) and the El Nifno Emergency Flood Project (Loan 4273-AR).
8.    The Flood Protection Project is a US$420.0 million follow-up project that is 47.6 percent
financed by the Bank and 28.6 percent co-financed by The Export-Import Bank of Japan
(JEXIM). Its objective is raising and completing the level of defense of key economically
important locations throughout the Parana Basin via structural and non-structural measures. The
components to this project lie in full support of the Government's new strategy in coping with
flooding in the Parand basin.
9.    The third loan, the El Nifio Emergency Flood Project, is a US$60.0 million operation that
is 70.0 percent financed by the Bank and has the objective of providing an immediate source of
financing for investments that will offset the damaging impact of the 1997/98 El Nifno in the
littoral provinces (specifically along the Uruguay River), and also in the semi-arid northwest of
Argentina which is susceptible to flash floods. The northwest provinces will benefit from the
components specifically directed towards these provinces, which include investments,
institutional strengthening and basin flood-risk studies.
B.    Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
10.   The objectives of the Flood Rehabilitation Project were to help finance flood
reconstruction needs in the seven afflicted littoral provinces and provide a sound institutional
framework for the coordination and implementation of the overall Government rehabilitation
program. The specific project activities, designed to restore normal economic activity in the
areas affected, included assisting in the rehabilitation of essential transport infrastructure, social
infrastructure, and flood control works. It should be noted that these activities were not designed
to provide the optimal economic protection against recurrent floods. For the latter possibility,



4
technical assistance was provided, under the project, to prepare for longer-term flood managing
by improving hydrological forecasting and prepare a prevention investment program to be
financed by a follow-up project.
Description
11.   Project design was based on the Bank's previous experience with similar reconstruction
efforts elsewhere and Bank normns for such circumstances. The project financed rehabilitation
investments in key infrastructure and its equipment for: (a) transport and energy; (b) emergency
flood control works; (c) housing; (d) education and health facilities; (e) water supply and
drainage; (f) additional requirements to be determined after final damage assessment; (g)
technical assistance to strengthen the institutions involved in project implementation; and (h)
flood forecasting and prevention of future disasters, including technical assistance.
(a) Transport and Energy: Funding for the: (i) rehabilitation of road works, urban streets,
railroads, ports and electricity distribution infrastructure damaged by the floods or by the
heavy traffic of construction equipment and trucks used in the struggle to reinforce
embankments against the surging flood waters; (ii) replacement of destroyed electrical
equipment; and (iii) rehabilitation of roadside defenses.
(b) Emergency Flood Control Works: For the financing of: (i) strengthening of embankments
that were either seriously eroded or washed out; (ii) the replacement of dike sections in
danger of collapsing; (iii) repair and replacement of temporary structures used to divert river
flows from residential areas; and (iv) repair and replacement of pumping equipment to
evacuate flood rainwater from urban areas below flood water levels.
(c) Housing: The reconstruction of homes destroyed or severely damaged through a program of
grants and self-help work for about 5,820 low-income families who will rebuild their own
housing units. The housing units were to be at least 30 m2, with two bedrooms and a multi-
use room and to cost about US$3,700, excluding the labor to be provided by the
beneficiaries. The beneficiaries were given the option to rebuild in the same location using
stilted homes or to voluntarily relocate to areas of less risk with other local beneficiaries into
an organized community, with each family having its land titled to the family itself.
(d) Education and Health Facilities: The rehabilitation of education and health facilities and the
construction of new buildings in locations well outside the 100 year floodplain, so as to
prevent damage by future floods.
(e) Water and Sewerage Services: The reconstruction or rehabilitation of water and sewerage
infrastructure, including: water intakes; water treatment plants; water pumping stations;
water distribution system for two cities; water wells sewage pumping stations; sewage
interceptors and collectors for eight cities; and a sewage oxidation pond.
(f) Additional Requirements: During appraisal, the brunt of the flood damage was not
ascertainable, especially in the province of Buenos Aires, where the flood did not peak until
July 1992. Therefore, the subprojects identified represented a limited inventory of the full
extent of the damages. Proposals for possible subprojects were to have been identified and



5
evaluated by the SUPCEs before January 31, 1993 and sent to the Bank for review and
approval. Each proposed sub-project would be justified and documented, as outlined in the
Operational Manual.
(g) Technical Assistance: Technical assistance was to be provided for the strengthening of
institutions involved in project implementation, engineering design and feasibility studies,
and construction supervision.
(h) Flood Forecasting and Disaster Prevention: Authorities recognized the importance of
ensuring adequate disaster prevention and mitigation measures and flood forecasting systems
for effectively responding to future disasters. To attend to this demand the loan financed the
examination of the quality of present mechanisms for monitoring, flood forecasting and
"early warning" preparedness. Simultaneously occurred the purchase of equipment to
improve the National Hydrological Institute (INCYTH) forecasting capability. Finally, a
portion of the funds for this component were for the execution of the following studies: (i)
regional issues concerning flooding in the Parana River basin, that also involve Paraguay,
Brazil and Bolivia; (ii) mechanisms to prevent flood losses that discourage development
(e.g., tax assessment practices); and (iii) insurance options as a way of spreading flood losses
over a period of time and across larger groups than those directly impacted by any given
flood.
Executing Agencies
12.   The Borrower was the Argentine Republic. In order to promptly implement the project, it
was decided to use the already existing Provincial Development I Project's (Loan 3280-AR)
organizational framework for that of the Flood Rehabilitation Project. Furthermore, the project
built on the operational experience gathered through the implementation of the mentioned
Provincial Development Project.
13.   This existing framework consists of a Central Executing Unit (UEC) that is located
within the Secretariat for Financial Assistance to the Provinces (SAFP) of the Borrower's
Ministry of Interior. The UEC coordinated and oversaw the implementation of the Provincial
Development I Project (and other internationally financed programs within the Ministry of the
Interior) from a macro perspective, while the Provincial Executing Units (UEPs) implemented
the activities at the local level. Similarly, the Flood Rehabilitation Project established (through
the emergency amendment to Loan 3280-AR) a parallel system which consisted of the Sub-
Unidad Central de Coordinaci6npara la Emergencia (SUCCE) at the central level that was
linked to each participating province's Sub-Unidad Provincial de Coordinaci6n para la
Emergencia (SUPCE). Even though in an organizational layout the SUCCE and SUPCEs are
subordinates to their respective UEC and UEPs, SUCCE and each SUPCE were established to be
fully autonomous entities. SUCCE has a chief executive assisted by a team of high level
consultants in several infrastructure sectors of the operation. Each SUPCE was also headed by a
chief executive and staffed with technically and administratively competent personnel. In
addition, a highly experienced individual consultant played the role of the General Supervisor,
with the responsibility for monitoring the project independently and reporting to the SAFP and
the Bank. The designed layout was a critical element to the project as the idea was to have the



6
SUCCE and the SUPCEs as an agile unit with the objective to quickly coordinate the
implementation of an emergency recovery flood project through focused technical expertise.
14.   SUCCE's role in the project was to provide overall project management, including
orientation and technical assistance to the provinces in the preparation, approval, control and
monitoring project implementation, as well as for all financial and reporting transactions with the
Bank. SUCCE was also responsible for sub-project evaluation, approval and procurement, as
well as reporting and obtaining Bank approval of acquisitions and disbursements.
15.   Each SUPCE was responsible for the formulation, implementation and supervision of
provincial sub-projects. Furthermore, each SUPCE was responsible for procurement, contracting
and submission of disbursements, all subject to the review by SUCCE. The agreed upon project
operational manual provided the guidance and established the minimum standards for all aspects
of implementation.
C.   Project Design and Preparation
Conceptual Framework
16.   The project was conceived in response to the Government's request for assistance in
implementing its program to meet the financial demands of rehabilitating the various
infrastructure sectors and supporting the plan to address the future demands of the sector in order
to mitigate future economic and social disasters from being repeated. This concept was
confirmed in the Bank's Aide Memoire dated June 16 to July 4, 1992, which summarizes the
observations and conclusions in regards to the evaluation of the damage caused by the floods in
the seven littoral provinces. In addition to identification, the mission also appraised the proposed
rehabilitation project and identified the necessity of a follow-up project to address future flood
protection measures.
Project Preparation/Appraisal
17.   Project preparation/appraisal was collapsed and took place in two stages during the June-
July 1992 mission: (i) one with the Central Government; and (ii) the second with each of the
seven participating provinces. This approach was in accordance with that of Argentina's
federalism, that is dialogue was carried out directly with each of the afflicted provinces. In the
first stage, the mission began its work in Buenos Aires with authorities from the Ministry of
Interior and other federal authorities with the objective to understand and collect general
information about the flood situation and to establish an overall strategy for the evaluation of the
damage in the afflicted provinces and to program the sequential visits to those provinces. From
June 19 to 26, the Bank mission visited the provinces of Corrientes, Formosa, Misiones, Entre
Rios, Chaco and Santa Fe with the objective to identify and evaluate the various damages.
Accordingly during this second stage, the Bank worked with the provincial officials whom were
taking damage assessments while carrying out relief operations in the area. In each of the
provinces, interviews were conducted with provincial governmental authorities and later the
mission conducted site visits, accompanied by technical authorities from the sectors of highways,
sanitation, health, education and housing. On June 29 the mission carried out its visit to the



7
Province of Buenos Aires, however, at this time the emergency had not fully affected the
province and thus funds were set aside for the province in the unallocated category.
18.   The mission's findings provided damage estimates across all infrastructure and social
sectors. However, not all damages could be fully assessed nor evaluated due to the short
timeframe of project preparation and that in many locations, flood waters were still at high
elevations covering the proposed infrastructure to be rehabilitated (many of these unidentifiable
works were in the water and sanitation sector). At project identification, approximately 75
percent of the works to be done were identified. A more comprehensive evaluation would have
to be done by the implementation study at a later date. However, the mission assessed that all
sub-projects or works would be short in duration (on average three months) and the project
would be implemented in 30 months. As some works could not be truly assessed, actual works
contracts on average were nine months, which was three times longer than expected.
D.   Project Implementation
Project Start-up
19.   Project start-up suffered some delays. The loan was signed on January 7, 1993 and
became effective on March 23, 1993, six months after the Board's approval on September 29,
1992. This delay can be attributed to the numerous and lengthy bureaucratic steps required
within the central government. Loan effectiveness required that at least three provinces had into
effect their respective subsidiary loan agreements, the remaining provinces were effective by the
end of April 1993, with the exception of the Province of Buenos Aires, which became effective
on July 1, 1993.
Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement
20.   The project's Memorandum from the President and Technical Annex estimated that the
project implementation would be from the last quarter of the 1992 calendar year to the end of the
second quarter in 1994, with all disbursements made by the end of the third quarter. However,
project implementation required an additional three years, due to: (i) sub-project review for
technical adequacy and justification; (ii) the revision of existing detailed engineering plans; (iii)
delays in provincial and federal counterpart funds payments; and (iv) longer than estimated
construction times and construction and engineering complications, specially at the river
divergence control structure in Laguna Blanca, Chaco.
21.   The construction delays for two sub-projects (Laguna Blanca and Avenida Costanera)
were the reason for the last 18 months of loan extensions. The main causes for these delays were
in engineering design inadequacies discovered during construction and contractors with little
experience in building major infrastructure works. In both cases, construction had to be slowed
down or stopped in order to adjust engineering designs. In the case of the river divergence
structure at Laguna Blanca in Chaco, major geotechnical work had to be done in order to
stabilize the concrete structure. Since so many design alterations were done on this work, the
Bank proposed that SUCCE hire a panel of internationally known engineers (strictural, hydraulic
and geotechnical) to review the structure and propose operational and monitoring guidelines to



8
be used in the future. This structure is key in the defense of Resistencia against flooding from
the Rio Negro, and in the unlikely event of its failure, the results could be highly catastrophic.
22.   Other delays could be attributed to the lack of counterpart funds and the timely payment
of contractors, which caused civil works to slow down or stop. Further delays with respect to the
estimated timetable were realized during the implementation of the housing component, as 5,820
units were built in 100 different municipalities in six provinces. The housing component,
although extremely successful, did require a lot of initial institutional development and time
before reaching a satisfactory pace of implementation, as the activities were coordinated with
several local agencies and ongoing national and provincial housing programs.
23.   In regards to procurement, the entire process was transparent and flexible, due to the
simplified bidding documents used and the limited Bank prior review of documents for the
tendering of goods and works. Within two years of project implementation, SUCCE and the
SUPCEs had developed a strong procurement capacity foundation. No major discrepancies or
deviations were noted during bidding and/or contracting processes.
Project Costs
24.   Project cost was estimated to be US$270.0 million, excluding duties and taxes, which
included civil works, materials, equipment, technical assistance and contingencies. However, the
final project cost reached only US$258.8 million, excluding duties and taxes. As approximately
25 percent of the works were not identified during appraisal and 25.0 percent of the project's
base cost was assigned to contingencies, Table 8A summarizes the breakdown of the final project
costs by component, incorporating all contingencies and unallocated funds used.
25.   The highest investments were made in flood defenses (33.9 percent), followed by
transport and energy (27.6 percent), third was water and sewerage (10.5 percent), fourth was
education (7.8 percent) and finally, health (3.1 percent). In summary, the unallocated funds and
contingencies were used to address additional flood control and transport and energy
rehabilitation works.
26.   The savings realized during project implementation were attributed to two factors: (i) bid
offers were below estimated values; and (ii) taxes and duties were estimated to be 18.0 percent of
the project cost, in actuality this turned out to be 13.6 percent of the project cost.
Project Financing
27.   Estimated and actual sources of financing are shown in Table 8B. Of the total project
cost, excluding duties and taxes, the federal government and the provincial governments each
financed 13.8 percent, leaving the Bank's overall financing at 72.4 percert (7.7 percent from
Loan 32-0-AR amd 6<.7 vnmercent from Loan 3521-AR). All these percentages of financing fall
within the riSa i: l 7 estimated range of financing, which was -.e federal and provincial
governments each financing 14.8 percent, the Loan 3280-AR amendment at 7.4 percent and Loan
3521-AR at 62.1 percent.



9
28.   With respect to financing in each of the four categories, the Bank financed: (i) an
additional US$4.6 million in works; (ii) US$10.9 million less in materials and equipment than
estimated; (iii) US$5.2 million more in technical assistance and consulting services than
expected; and (iv) US$1.8 million less in housing than expected. A summary of the informnation
is shown in Table 8B.
29.   As a result of the three-year delay in project implementation, disbursements did not
follow the appraised estimates (see Table 4). These estimates appear to be unrealistic as
disbursements followed in parallel an overly ambitious procurement schedule. Loan
disbursements reached a satisfactory pace between the second half of the Bank's 1994 fiscal year
(first half of 1994 calendar year) and the second half of the Bank's 1997 fiscal year.
30.   Seventeen contracts covering emergency repairs in transport, energy, education, health
and flood defense structures in five provinces valuing US$18.4 million dollars were retroactively
financed.
E.    Project Results
Changes in Project Objectives
31.   The original project objectives and scope were maintained throughout project
implementation.
Physical Results
32.   Despite the initial start-up delays and counterpart shortages during project
implementation, all physical objectives were fully met and in some cases surpassed. The flood
defense strategy used, along with the community participation methodology in the housing
component, has effectively avoided damages, as demonstrated during early 1997 and the 1997/98
El Nifio. The achievement of the project's physical indicators has resulted in a lowered risk of
economic disruption due to flooding and the investments made have also established a solid
foundation for the launching of the Flood Protection Project.
33.   As the flood waters lowered by the end of 1992 and early 1993, it became clear that more
investments would be required in the rehabilitation of flood defense structures than originally
estimated, as seen in the achievement of the different indicators in Table 5. Conversely, fewer
investments were made in roads, while demands increased in the rehabilitation of ports and
transmission lines. With respect to water and sewerage investments, two more water treatment
plants and two more wastewater treatment plants were repaired than originally expected.
Likewise increased the number of municipalities that required water distribution and sewage
collector repairs.
34.   Loan 3521-AR financed several studies, many for the preparation of the follow-up Flood
Protection Project. Of all the studies, the most important to note is the river basin-wide
assessment, the "Study of the Regulation of the Alluvial Valley of the Parana, Paraguay and
Uruguay Rivers for Flood Protection". This study, the foundation to the follow-up project, was



10
carried out by the international consulting firm, Sir William Halcrow & Partners, Ltd. of
England, from April to September 1994.
35.  In addition to the tangible physical results, the project generated many indirect and social
benefits that can be difficult to quantitatively evaluate. The promotion of community awareness
by the SUPCEs and other local authorities during implementation has resulted in some of the
following additional benefits:
* Cleaner communities and less uncontrolled solid waste dumping in drainage canals.
* Stronger sense of community identity in newly formed housing commurnities, along
with community empowerment to request additional services.
* Individual ownership identity of homes built through the self-construction
methodology.
* Improved sanitary and health conditions, including the restoration of medical
facilities.
* Public awareness for the maintenance and respect for defense structures, especially
pumping stations, drainage canals and levees.
Financial Performance
36.   The financial performance analysis included a comparison of the costs associated with
executing agencies versus the amount invested and the counterpart funding compliance by the
provincial and the federal governments.
(a) SUCCE. SUCCE's operational and consultancy costs during the implementation of Loan
3521-AR and the first emergency amendment to Loan 3280-AR equaled about US$56.4
million, of which the Bank financed US$5.2 million. Said SUCCE expenses were comprised
of the following: consulting fees for approximately 20 staff over five years, covering, e.g.,
their services, trips and per diems and personal medical insurance (88.2 percent); computers
and other office equipment (3.5 percent); and office supplies and other related overhead costs
(8.3 percent). Auditing expenses, which were not included as part of SUCCE's direct costs,
equaled US$1.7 million over five years. In regards to the audit reports themselves, they were
done every six months because of the flexible procurement thresholds. All audit reports were
submitted with unqualified opinions. In addition, a financial management system (FMS)
review was conducted in March 1998 to further improve the financial management capacity
of SUCCE in the implementation of other Bank loans.
(b) SUPCEs. The costs associated to operate all of the seven SUPCEs were US$13.4 million,
excluding the staff salaries. Staff salaries were not included because many staff were
transferred from existing line agencies and their salaries would have been paid, regardless of
the creation of a SUPCE. The operating costs encompasses: travel and perdiems (7.3
percent); office overhead, services and others (9.4 percent); insurance (0.3 percent); and
technical assistance (83.0 percent). The only expenses that were financed through the loan
were those related to technical assistance, which was US$8.3 million of the US$1 1.1 million.
An analysis of each SUPCE's cost as a percentage of its respective province's project cost
resulted in fairly consistent values, with the exception of Buenos Aires, which SUPCE's cost
represented 39.2 of the province's investments. On average, each SUPCE cost 6.0 percent of



11
its respective province's investments and excluding Buenos Aires from the statistic, the
average falls to 4.7 percent. SUPCE-Buenos Aires' high costs are due to the heavy amount
of technical assistance required. Overall, however, the SUPCE costs associated with the
implementation of the activities in each province falls within an acceptable range. Likewise,
the March 1998 financial management system review included the SUPCEs.
(c) Counterpart Funds. Fiscal constraints of the mid 1990's, attributed to the "Tequila Effect",
had repercussions on the transferring of national counterpart funds to the provinces and
likewise the availability of provincial counterpart funds. These delays in payments played a
roll in prolonging the Flood Rehabilitation Project. The delays started in 1995 when the
National Budget Office did not incorporate sufficient resources within its 1995 budget
exercise for federal counterpart funding. Sufficient resources were not allocated until the
1997 budget exercise and the federal government did not finish transferring overdue
counterpart funds to the provinces until April 1997, in accordance with a Bank proposed
timetable. The availability of provincial counterpart funds began to diminish in 1996, most
notably in the provinces of Formosa and Misiones, two of the most financially constrained
participating provinces in the program. In fact, as of May 20, 1998, Misiones and Formosa
still owe AR$247,483 and AR$2,493,932 in counterpart funds, respectively. These two
provinces are attempting to reduce their overdue payments to contractors by offering bonds.
The delay in counterpart fund payments has been duly noted by the auditors as a violation of
the Loan Agreement. It is the intention of the Bank to have these two provinces fulfill their
obligations prior to beginning the bidding of their sub-projects in the Flood Protection
Project, in order not to deter contractors from bidding in future works.
Economic Evaluation
37.   Because this was an emergency recovery loan, no financial or economic cost and benefit
analysis was carried out at appraisal. However, based on the availability of information in flood-
related avoided damage prepared by SUCCE and independent consultants, it was decided to
calculate the economic rate of return (see Table 9) for eight selected cities along the Parana. For
the eight cities in question, the analysis yielded an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of
35.1 percent; this high rate of return is essentially attributed to the immediate benefits realized
from the 1997 flood, in which the avoided damage for the cities was estimated at US$234.4
million (1995 US$). The project's IERR will actually end up being even higher because of the
avoided damage benefits that were realized from the 1997/98 El Nifno phenomena in early 1998.
The methodology for the analysis was as follows:
(a) Costs. The eight identified cities represent US$152.8 million in investments, or 59.1 percent
of the project's total cost (excluding duties and taxes). The only other cost considered was
for maintenance, which was assigned an annual rate of 2.2 percent of the investment costs
(US$93.8 million) of the structural measures, except for a 3.0 percent maintenance cost every
five years. Financing charges during construction were not considered.
(b) Benefits. The benefit stream (1993 dollars) includes the estimated cost of the direct flood-
caused damage avoided in each city for actual occurrences from 1993 to 1997, while from
1998 to 2012 was based on the probability of expected avoided annual damage. The
expected benefits were estimated on the avoided damage for all floods with a recurrence time



12
lower (or probability of occurrence higher) than the rehabilitated defense level established for
each city. This dollar value is calculated by the mathematical integral of a damage cost
function over the probability of occurrence distributed over the life of the project. The
average avoided damages per city were then distributed on a per capita basis for that city.
Thus, as the population grows and the protected urban area density increases, so too does the
avoided damage increase. Population growth for all locations was taken at 1.0 percent' per
annum, which corresponds to a 1.0 percent annual growth rate in the avoided darnage. These
avoided costs refer only to the estimated rehabilitation expenses of existing facilities and
infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, water intakes, houses, and public buildings, the
government would incur in the case of a future recurrent flood. No direct economic or social
costs associated with floods were considered, thus resulting in a lower bound of the benefits
associated with the project. Nornally for flood investment projects the principal benefit,
"avoided damage", refers to the difference between damage costs under conditions "with"
and "without" the investments. However, in the Flood Rehabilitation Project, since many
defenses were incomplete or washed out from the 1992 flood, the post-flood defense system
was considered to be non-functional, as a defense structure is only as strong as its weakest
point. Thus, capital investments in the rehabilitation project resulted in a high level of
benefits.
(c) Present Values. Net present values (NPV) of costs and benefits were calculated over a 20-
year estimated lifetime (1993-2012) of the investments (common for earthwork structures),
assuming a 12 percent discount rate, and assuming that benefits did not begin until 1996, at
which point 85 percent of the investments had been made. The NPV at the mentioned
discount rate was estimated at US$642 million. All values were calculated in 1993 dollars.
(d) Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity analysis, as seen in Table 9, shows that the project in the
long-term is not sensitive to an increase in maintenance costs. However, the project is quite
sensitive to a lower than statistically expected average annual avoided damages, that is
reductions of 50 and 75 percent in the yearly benefits from 1998 to 2012 would lead to
returns of around 27.9 and 22.6 percent, respectively. Furtherrnore, if the 1997 flood had not
occurred and just the expected yearly average damages were avoided, the return would have
been reduced to 20.5 percent (an economic rate of return similar to the new Flood Protection
Project).
Impact on Poor
38.   The project's housing program was designed to provide assistance to the poor that were
affected by the flood or living in a vulnerable location within a floodplain. The program was
highly successful in achieving its objective, as 5,820 poor farnilies affected by the flood were
assisted in about 100 different locations. The benefiting population represents 28.4 percent of
the inhabitants evacuated during the 1992 flood. The beneficiaries were given the option to
rebuild in the same location using prefabricated stilted homes or to voluntarily relocate to a
nearby area of less risk with other beneficiaries into an organized community. The use of
traditional style of brick construction was very successful with the beneficiaries and also
establishes ownership and sustainability. Conversely, experience has raised doubts in the use of
l1997 World Bank Development Indicators reports Argentina's expected growth rate from 1995 to 2010.



13
wood panels and prefabricated prototypes, which reduces the beneficiaries' participation and
sense of ownership. Each family had its land titled and furthermore, since the newly constructed
homes were clustered into organized communities, local municipalities, through federal and
provincial programs, were able to cost effectively provide basic infrastructure services such as
water, sewerage and electricity to families that previously had no such services. The average
participating family's profile in the housing program was as follows:
(a) Monthly family income':             $156
(b) Education:                          Primary incomplete
(c) Household head age:                 32
(d) Number of families:                 5,820
(e) Number of people per family:        5
(f) Basic Services:
Water                             40%
Sewage                            10%
Electricity                       58%
(g) Percentage of construction          36% Female
participation by sex:                64% Male
F.    Project Sustainability
39.   On the whole, the achievement of the project's objectives should be sustainable for the
following principal reasons:
Institutional/Management Effectiveness
40.   The establishment of the SUCCE and SUPCEs and their framework has been highly
beneficial for the coordination and strengthening of activities between the federal and local
governments, but also coordination amongst the provincial agencies. In addition, these
implementation entities are a representative voice for necessary budget requirements, such as
operation and maintenance of defense structures. In regards to emergency management, the
Government should consider establishing a permanent directorate for emergency management
within the Ministry of the Interior in order to achieve long-term sustainability.
Housing Program
41.   A post implementation risk identified was that families would sell their newly constructed
homes and return to the high risk areas once occupied or that new inhabitants would occupy the
land in question. However, the former concern has not appeared to materialize to date. The new
sanitary and health conditions, along with the provision of social programs, demonstrates to the
beneficiaries the advantage in living in the new conditions over the former precarious situation.
Sustainability of the new homes and their original beneficiaries is highly likely. In regards to the
concern of new inhabitants taking over previously occupied land, this risk will be addressed in
1 Government of Argentina classifies families as poor with monthly household income levels below US$360.



14
the Flood Protection Project, which requires that provinces and municipalities pass a standard
flood protection law that incorporates land zoning and land use regulations.
Public Awareness/Commitment
42.   The 1990's have witnessed an alarming increase in the numnber of severe floods,
especially the latest, which was linked to the 1997/98 El Niflo phenomenon. During the past five
years, affected citizens have directly benefited from the flood protection defenses and the
associated economic and life saving potential several times. With such a strong visual and
mental experience associated with the protection works, the support from the local population,
the media, and the politicians has come wholeheartedly. Sustainable commitment has been
further demonstrated by the eagerness of local populations to have the works that are being
financed by the follow-up Flood Protection Project to start immediately in their municipalities.
Technical and Economic
43.   The investments in civil works were aimed at rehabilitating existing infrastructure
through a quick and locally competitive tendering process that assured a cost-effective solution.
The follow-up project aims to increase the level of protection to its optimal level, considering the
socio-economic factors involved. Technical sustainability and realization of the investment's
economic return should be guaranteed through appropriate operation and maintenance that is
carried out when there is strong public and political support.
Flood Protection Project
44.   The activities that are being carried out under the follow-up Flood Protection Project will
enhance sustainability. The new local laws and river-basin-wide coordinating arrangements
should help strengthen the local governrnents' flood preparedness and mitigation systems.
Furthermore, the new project will ensure that the well-trained and competent staff of SUCCE and
the SUPCEs continue to provide the strong technical and institutional support required for
sustaining project investments.
G.   Bank Performance
45.   Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The
Bank's performance was highly satisfactory in terms of responsiveness to the clients needs, since
the operation was prepared relatively quickly, three and half months from the start of the first
mission to Board approval. Project design was well developed and conditions essential to the
sustainability of the project were identified, resulting in the inclusion of a number of studies,
plans and programs. In particular, the Bank did well in maintaining the housing program in the
loan, even though at one point it contemplated removing this component due to the Bank's lack
of experience in such housing programs and concern about corruption. The only deficiency in
project preparation was the oversight of properly screening available engineering designs for
environmental and technological appropriateness, especially in regards to the works at Laguna
Blanca, Chaco. The construction delays caused by the necessity to re-evaluate the designs
delayed project completion and in hindsight it would have been more advantageous to take the



15
initial time to closely screen the engineering plans and design the project with a longer
implementation period.
46.   Bank performance with respect to supervision was satisfactory. Due to a sound and
flexible project framework, the Bank's role was more in maintaining the project's momentum by
dealing foreseen and unforeseen obstacles in a timely fashion throughout implementation.
Supervision was excellent in terms of: (i) its intensity and level of commitment from high quality
Task Managers (TM) and staff; (ii) continuity in management, only two TM during supervision
cycle; (iii) advice to implementing agencies; (iv) organizing floodplain management
workshops/study tours in other countries; (v) 26 supervision missions (see Table 12) that
amounted to 242 days in the field over five years and visits to all the participating provinces,
including frequent construction site visits; and (vi) the establishment of a sound and trusting
relationship with the borrower, especially with the implementation units. Although all audit
reports had unqualified opinions, the Bank's supervision could have been improved in the area of
financial management, specifically in terms of direct linkage between physical advancements and
disbursements.
H.   Borrower Performance
47.   Because of the project's implementation framework, it is necessary to divide this section
into the performance of the Argentine Republic (the borrower), SUCCE, the SUPCEs as a whole
and the UEC.
The Argentine Republic
48.   The borrower's role in this project was limited; however, the few responsibilities it had
were essential to the project's implementation. During project preparation, the borrower's
Ministry of Interior performed very satisfactorily, rapidly organizing the logistics for the carrying
out of the assessment of the damaged areas in conjunction with the Bank's mission. The
borrower's response into signing the Loan Agreement and putting the loan effective were lengthy
considering the importance of the project. As stated earlier, it only took the Bank three and half
months to prepare the project and obtain Board approval on September 29, 1992. However, loan
signing did not occur until January 7, 1993 and the loan was not effective until March 24, 1993.
These delays are mainly attributed to the excessive bureaucratic steps within the Ministries of
Economy and the Interior. The borrower needs to develop a streamline approach when dealing
with emergency recovery loans, so as not to prolong the recovery of the afflicted area. In regards
to its counterpart funding obligations, the borrower eventually performed satisfactorily, as all
past due transfers have been made.
SUCCE Performance
49.   SUCCE, a subordinate to the UEC, was nevertheless designed as a technically and
administratively autonomous unit. SUCCE carried out its responsibilities highly satisfactorily.
SUCCE's use of highly skilled consultants and the organizational framework were key in
maintaining credibility in the program, for both the Bank and more importantly for the provinces.
SUCCE established and maintained constant communication with the provinces, especially in



16
providing the necessary technical guidance in locations with problematic or complex
construction. Above its fiduciary role, to facilitate communication and the transferring of
knowledge and gained experience (best practice) among the SUPCEs, SUCCE used a periodic
circular noting criteria and procedures, especially those relevant to procurement. This pamphlet
proved beneficial in the initial months of project setup and organization and in the latter stages
regarding contracting and technical issues. SUCCE was also essential in the preparation of the
Flood Protection Project and the recent El Nifio Emergency Flood Project. Likewise, the
project's General Supervisor played invaluable role in project reporting and providing solutions
to technical problems.
50.  In regards to monitoring and reporting project activities to the Bank, SUCCE timely
submitted all required information. Project auditing was done every six months, given the
amount of flexibility to implement the project, and all audit reports had unqualified opinions.
SUPCEs Performance
51.  Not all SUPCEs performed the same, but under the guidance of SUCCE, the SUPCEs
gained experience from individual lessons learned and from the experiences of each other that
were shared through established chains of communications. The SUPCEs began strongly,
considering that they were newly created and without experience in Bank operations. This was
achieved due to the staffs' demonstrated strong commitmnent in learning the required
administrative procedures. On the whole the SUPCEs carried out their duties fully satisfactorily
by way of speedily dealing with the emergency recovery and coordination, and in the supervision
and management of the conventional investments and their respective contracts. The
sustainability of the project actions appears to be ensured by the competent staff in the SUPCEs
and the communications that were maintained with municipal and provincial authorities.
UEC Performance
52.   Although the UEC was not the executing unit in this project, as is the case with other
Bank operations within the Ministry of Interior, as SUCCE's superior, any UEC changes directly
impact SUCCE. As was the case in the latter years of the project, when the UEC had grown into
a relatively bureaucratic unit as its responsibilities grew. At the same time, the Presidency
requested all project units in the beginning of 1997 to consolidate in order to reduce duplication
and operational costs. Thus, the UEC centralized its staff into the different functions. In
carrying out this centralization, the UEC has had to override SUCCE's autonomy (as established
in the Loan Agreement) by centralizing key administrative SUCCE staff and functions,
particularly in terms of legal, disbursement, procurement and accounting. This centralization
created an administrative layer for SUCCE which reduces its responsiveness, and appears to add
very little value. In response to numerous provincial complaints, the Bank has requested that the
UEC adhere to standards when reviewing documents. Unfortunately, however, this appears not
to be working as delays continue. This is of particular concern to the Bank's supervision of the
Flood Protection Project and as well as other projects managed by the UEC (El Nifio Emergency
Flood, Provincial Development II, etc.).



17
I.    Assessment of Outcome
53.   The project on a whole is rated fully satisfactory. Even though the project was completed
with delay (due to financial constraints and partly due to an optimistic implementation plan), all
objectives were achieved. Although no performance indicators were established, benefits are
evident from project areas that have been protected from the recent floods, including the 1997/98
El Nifio. In regards to the benefits realized from the 1997/98 El Niio, all but one participating
municipality's structural defense withstood the event, and that was due to poor operation and
maintenance. The most notable was in the City of Resistencia (pop. 310,000) where its levee
came within less than 30 cm of overflowing during the latest flood.
J.    Project Sustainability
54.   Project sustainability is fairly certain as there is a government and public awareness for
the need for complementary actions that have been defined in the follow-up Flood Protection
Project. Not all actions could be addressed as floodplain management requires numerous
investments. In short, if this project had not been implemented and coupled with the increase in
flood frequencies since project implementation, the economic-infrastructure damages in
conjunction with the social and economic losses may have been catastrophic to the point of
paralyzing the region's economy and possibly resulting in minimizing Argentina's recent gains
from MERCOSUR.
K.   Future Operations
55.   The Bank's assistance program, as outlined below, should help to secure the objectives
and sustainability of this project (Loan 3521-AR).
Flood Protection Project (Loan 411 7-AR)
56.   The Flood Protection Project is the follow-up loan that will further develop a sustainable
level of protection in parts of Parand basin. Most of these works are focused on the cities
bordering the Parand River, where the population and economic activity are concentrated. In
addition to the physical activities, this project invests in the non-structural measures of improving
civil defense coordination, establishing land use regulation laws, developing an early waming
system and many other institutional and environmental strengthening programs. The project is
expected to cost US$420.0 million, of which US$200.0 million is being financed by the Bank
and US$120.0 million by the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). Affter months of
bureaucratic delays within the Ministries of Interior and Economy, the Bank's loan became
effective in October 1997 and JEXIM's loan in January 1998.
El Nino Emergency Flood Project (Loan 4273-AR)
57.   The 1997/98 El Nifio has been measured as the second strongest event after the 1982/83
phenomena. The resulting substantial rains flooded the Uruguay River, where many investments
had not been previously made because historically it has never been a problem. The US$35.0



18
million in activities to be financed in the Parand basin go above and beyond those that were and
are to be addressed in Loan 3521-AR and Loan 4117-AR, respectively. In addition, US$25.0
million is expected to be invested in other (mostly northwestern) provinces of Argentina to
prepare for the possible impact of the 1998 La Nifia. Of the US$25.0 million, US$1.0 million
will be used to conduct a regional risk study. The Bank prepared and received Board approval
for the loan on January 20, 1998, two months after receiving the Government of Argentina's
fonnal request for assistance. The loan became effective on October 6, 1998.
Water Resources Management Sector Work
58.   The Bank's recent efforts have focused entirely within the Parana Basin and has only
recently, on a modest scale, moved into addressing the issues of semi-arid regions of the
Northwest. Although much work still lies ahead within the Parand Basin, the sector work to be
done by the Bank during 1999 Fiscal Year will encompass water resource management issues,
including, floodplain management framework, water rights, pollution control, water basin
agencies, necessary flood protection laws and many other topics, especially in the semi-arid
regions. The intention is that the results from this study will help to determine the necessary
institutional and legal requirements for the integrated management of Argentina's water
resources well into the future.
Urban Drainage Project
59.   The Bank and the borrower have initiated discussions regarding a future project involving
the designing and construction of macro and micro drainage systems for major urban areas in
Argentina to compliment the flood protection effort. In addition, this project may include a solid
waste management component among others. The Flood Protection Project is financing the
study and development of the drainage engineering plans for the city of Buenos Aires. Currently
this proposed project is in the Bank's pipeline.
L.    Key Lessons Learned
Emergency Project Design
60.   One of the key lessons, already applied to other Argentine flood rehabilitation and
protection projects, is that physical rehabilitation alone is not sufficient to sustain long-term
benefits, as well as provide an effective level of protection. Even in emergency projects, funding
should be allocated for the development of non-structural measures that establish the capacity to
manage future emergencies at provincial and local levels.
61.   Although the project took an additional three years to complete beyond its original two-
year design, its implementation still has to be considered an achievement given the multi-sector
scope of the project. By end 1995, 90 percent of physical works were completed, but more time
was required because of a few complex works and budget constraints in 1995/96. The successes
achieved can be replicated and further improved by considering the following principles: (i)
using simple and easy investments to implement with adequate design standards; (ii) using a
flexible project design that is not over-specified; (iii) ensuring participation of interested



19
provinces with adequate counterpart financing from the tax revenue sharing system; (iv)
maintaining competent local executing units with the capacity to deal with emergencies; (v)
enabling flexibility to shift funds among eligible provinces, including a portion of funds as
unallocated for unforeseen activities; and (vi) preparing a well formulated but simple project
operation's manual. Consideration should be given to realistic completion schedules when
preparing emergency loans, especially ones as complex as this one.
Policy Lessons
62.   The institutional set-up of the SUCCE-SUPCE framework was crucial to the project's
implementation and its sustainability in maintaining an effective method of communication and
coordination among the provincial and federal governments. Project activities progressed well
because of decentralized decision making by provincial implementing units, with relatively light
handed central Government control, and the fact that the provincial implementing units also
remained small and focused on establishing effective collaboration with established line
agencies.
63.   Emergency operations that involve voluntary resettlement through a housing component
should assist in the definition of land use regulations that forbid new inhabitants from resettling
the land that is at risk. Otherwise such legal and institutional aspects should be addressed in a
follow-up project to prevent such human occupation and settlement of land in high-risk areas (in
this case, the follow-up Flood Protection Project).
64.   Emergency recovery assistance in most developing countries should be viewed as only a
first step to restore economic and financial activities. The Bank's assistance should continue in a
follow-up operation that provides assistance to implement medium to long-term risk mitigation
and prevention goals established during the emergency operation.
65.   Restricting development in floodplains and preserving the ecosystem are better achieved
and supported through the use of fiscal incentives, effective land use and management practices,
and sound governmental policies and programs aimed at avoiding further environmental
degradation. These approaches to risk prevention and mitigation are less costly and more
effective than physical measures, as recited in the Bank's policy paper on Water Resources
Management (April 30, 1993) and incorporated in the design of the follow-up Flood Protection
Project.
Implementation Lessons.
66.  In view of the emergency and because the repair and reconstruction works were relatively
small in size and executed in scattered locations in seven provinces, procurement procedures for
eligible subprojects were simplified in line with Bank guidelines to facilitate speedy
implementation. As nearly 99 percent of the works was awarded through national competitive
bidding (NCB), quotation, or direct contracting, the Bank's prior review was limited to the first
two NCB contracts per year with the remaining review conducted on a spot-check basis in the
field. In order to provide assurance that the Bank's procurement procedures and funds were
being properly used, project audits took place semi-annually instead of annually.



20
67.   Delays occurred with respect to the implementation schedule because SUCCE's analysis
of the proposed sub-projects for their technological and environmental appropriateness and
adequacy was not considered. An adequate time allowance should be made for such reviews in
all emergency operations, as sub-project evaluation is not based on an ex-ante project evaluation
process.
68.   Experience has shown that multi-sector projects tend to be difficult to implement and
complete on time. However, in this project delays were attributed to engineering and
construction problems and counterpart funding shortages. The multi-sector nature of the project
had no significant influence on implementation delays.
69.   The use of a structured implementation framework with a very capable project executing
unit staffed by a team of experienced consultants in several infrastructure sectors of the operation
was a key factor in the successful implementation of this emergency operation. The staff should
be recruited competitively and paid according to market standards to guarantee a high level of
quality and to minimize staff turnover.
70.   Emergency operations require a strong commitment not only from the Borrower, but also
from the Bank in terms of supervision. This project benefited from several supervision missions
that included extensive field visits and on-site inspections. Emergency loans need to be designed
with a flexible implementation framework and visible Bank presence in order to assist in
adapting the project to meet unforeseen demands and to successfully manage and remove
implementation bottlenecks.
Community Participation
71.   The participation of beneficiaries and affected parties in planning, designing,
implementing and managing the project is essential to ensure a satisfactory outcome of an
emergency project. This was especially relevant in the housing and shelter component. The
interaction in local communities between beneficiaries and the local authorities resulted in the
timely availability of construction materials and the incorporation of local customs in the
architectural design of the new houses. The housing program was also essential in attending to
the poor (beneficiaries with an average household income of US$156) and encompassing the
participation of women, who input 36 percent of the total labor.
Project Financing
72.  In order for an emergency loan to be implemented quickly, overall Bank financing of an
emergency operation should be a minimum of 60 to 70 percent. This minimizes the amount of
counterpart funding requirements and unforeseen fiscal adjustments required by the federal and
local government and allows what little government resources that remain to be used in other
areas of relief that are not covered by the Bank's project.



21
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                           /
Sector policies                                                                                 /
Financial objectives                                                                            /
Institutional development                   /
Physical objectives                         /
Poverty reduction'
Gender issues'                                                                                  /
Other social objectives'                                                                                  |
Environmental objectives                                    /
Public sector management                    /
Private sector development
Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                   /
Highly
C. Bank Perfonnance                     Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                              1
Preparation assistance                                      4'
Appraisal2                                                  4
Supervision                                 /
Highly
D. Borrower Performance3                Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                 4
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart fumds4 4
Project coordination                      4'
Covenant compliance                         /
Operation (if applicable)                                   4
Highly                                              Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome                                    V'
I Voluntary resettlement of 5,820 affected low-income families. With respect to gender concerns, the project provided
substantial female participation (more than one third) in the self-help housing construction program.
2Under estimated capability of timely counterpart funding contributions by both central and provincial governments.
3Performance considers the participating provinces (Buenos Aires, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones, and Santa Fe).
4Lag in central government's contribution due to financial situation and several provinces' lack of counterpart funding delayed
payment to contractors.



22
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit and Title   Purpose                       Amount    Year   Status
(US$ Million)
Preceeding Operations
None
Concurrent Operations
Provincial Development I Uncommitted funds used to      20.0      1992  Executed
Project (1st Emergency    address the immediate needs of
Amendment to Loan      strengthening the project's
3280-AR)               existing institutional framework
and physical rehabilitation.
Following Operations
Japanese Grant         Provided financing for technical  0.6      1994  Executed
(TF 22274-AR)          assistance for the preparation of
the Flood Protection Project.
Provincial Development I Remaining uncommitted funds    14.0      1997   Under
Project (2nd Emergency    used to finance the immediate                  Execution
Amendment to Loan      rehabilitation and protection
3280-AR)               activities related to the 1997/98
El Niflo.
Flood Protection Project  Provide higher degree of flood  200.0   1997  Effective
(Loan 4117-AR)         protection in selected
economically important
locations along the Parana
River.
El Nifno Emergency     Provide assistance to address    42.0      1998    Board
Flood Project (Loan    the ongoing flooding                              Approved
4273-AR)               emergency in the Parana Basin
above and beyond those
identified from the previous
loans and to investment in flood
protection infrastructure in the
northwestern provinces.



23
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Project Cycle Steps                                Date Planned       Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Initial Executive Project Summary)  June 15-July 4, 1992  June 16-July 4, 1992
Preparation'                                    June 15-July 4, 1992  June 16-July 4, 1992
Appraisal'                                      June 15-July 4, 1992  June 16-July 4, 1992
Negotiations'                                    August 24-26, 1992   August 24-26, 1992
Board Presentation                                  not available      September 29, 1992
Signing                                             not available       January 7, 1993
Effectiveness'                                    October 30, 1992      March 24, 1993
Midterm Review2                                     October 1993          not available
Project Completion                               September 31, 1994   November 30, 1997
Loan Closing3                                      March 31, 1995       March 31, 1998
iAs per the Memorandum of the President.
2 As per the Technical Annex text.
3 Loan Closing Date extended four times from March 31, 1995 as follows:
to March 31, 1996 under amendment of November 9, 1994
to December 31, 1996 under amendment of November 13, 1995
to September 30, 1997 under amendment of December 19, 1996
to March 31, 1998 under amendment of September 26, 1997



24
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements': Cumulative Estimated vs. Actual
(US$ thousands)
Bank FY      Half        Estimate    f   Actual       Actual as % of    Date of Final
l  ___________  _______ ___ _I ____II   Estimate               Disbursement
1993         1          22,000            -
1993         2          68,000          5,871            8.6
1994         1         112,000         15,663            14.0
1994         2         153,000         48,303            31.6
1995         1          170,000        89,943            52.9
1995         2             -           118,937           70.0
1996         1             -           143,090           84.2
1996         2             -           152,220           89.5
1997         1             -           158,611           93.3
1997         2                         163,811           96.4
1998         1                         166,821           98.1
1998         2             -           167,202           98.4         July 22, 19983
Cummulative Loan Disbursement
200
150
-.-- Actual
~50
0
C)  a)       m       CDD     CD O
Bank Fiscal Year
IDisbursement total includes original (35210-AR) and all converted loans (3521A-AR and 352 IS-AR)
2 Estimates according to September 4, 1992 MOP/Technical Annex
3 Final disbursement for converted Loan 352 1A-AR



25
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators                                 Estimated                                 Actual
I. Indicators in MOP/Technical
Annex and Loan Agreement
A. Transport and Energy
Urban Roads                                              21 (locations)                            Unknown
Ports (quantity)                                               6                                      10
Bridges (quantity)                                            29                                      22
Highways (km)                                                3,408                                   1,707
Railroads (kn)                                                3                                        5
Transmission Lines (km)                                       4                                       35
B. Flood Control Works
Levees (km)                                                   50                                      228
Protected Area (hectares)                                    1,407                                 Unknown
Soil Movement (1000 m3)                                      6,030                                   9,150
Pumps (quantity)                                              14                                      175
C. Housing (units)                                               6,201                                   5,820
D. Education Facilities (quantity)                               262                                     217
Primary Schools (quantity)                                   234                                      191
Secondary Schools (qty)                                        8                                       9
Others (quantity)                                             20                                      17
E. Health Facilities (units)                                      38                                      38
Auxiliary Centers (units)                                      4                                       0
Health Centers (units)                                         8                                      15
Hospitals (units)                                             10                                      11 
Health Posts (units)                                           4                                       2
Community Centers (units)                                     11                                       9
Others (units)                                                 1                                       1
F. Water and Sewerage Works
Stormwater Drainage (km)                                      39                                      25
Water Treatment Plants (qty)                                   1                                       3
Sewage Treatment Plants (qty)                                 2                                        4
Water Distribution (locations)                                2                                        5
Sewage Collectors (locations)                                  8                                      13
Water Intakes (quantity)                                       9                                       9
II. Modified Indicators
Not Applicable
IIL Other Indicators
A. Institutional Development                                   I SUCCE                                 I SUCCE
7 SUPCEs                                7 SUPCEs
B. Flood Forecasting System                         7 Connections with each Province                 7 Connections
C. Contracts                                                Not Applicable                               434
Works Contracts (quantity)                              Not Applicable                                298
Goods Contracts (quantity)                              Not Applicable                                56
Consultant Contracts (qty)                              Not Applicable                                80



26
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Implementation Indicators          Estimated        I          Actual
I. Indicators in MOP/Technical
Annex
None                      None
II. Modified Indicators                                                            l
None                      Nonel
mII. Other Indicators
None                      None



27
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose                 Impact of Study       Consultant  Contract  Contract
in Charge     Date       Value
(AR$
'000)
1) Study of the    Regional flood    Permitted the start of the  Sir William    March      650.3
Regulation of the  protection study    evaluation of the Flood    Halcrow &      1994
Alluvial Valley of    addressing     Protection Project and        Partners
the Parana, Paraguay  physical, legal,    developed the provincial
and Uruguay Rivers  institutional and    master plans and a base for
for Flood Protection  socio-economic   the development of local
issues.          master plans.
2) Gualeguay Master  Master plan for    Permitted the detailing and  Engineer    January    189.0
Plan                city's flood area.   budgeting for each of the  Jorge        1995
city's works to be in the   Karnesonyi
Flood Protection Project.
3) Corrientes Master  Same as above.    Same as above.             Engineer    January     193.6
Plan                                                             Juan Carlos     1995
Fassi
4) Goya Master Plan  Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer    January     192.0
Oscar       1995
Bonfanti
5) Formosa Master   Same as above.    Same as above.               Engineer    January     229.1
Plan                                                              Juan Jose      1995
Ronco
6) Clorinda Master   Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer    January     198.6
Plan                                                               Reinaldo      1995
Agustoni
7) Resistencia      Same as above.    Same as above.               Engineer    January     229.7
Master Plan                                                        Sanchez       1995
Guzman
8) Diamante Slope    Erosion/sedimenta  Permitted the engineering  Dr. Jose A.   February    110.0
Stabilization      tion study due to   details to be finalized for the    Sanguinetti    1995
floods.          river's bank stabilization and
expected cost.
9) Linea Tapenga    Master plan for    Permitted the detailing and  Engineer    March       96.0
Master Plan         city's flood area.   budgeting for each of the  Carlos A.    1995
city's works to be in the    Depotris
Flood Protection Project.
10) Mercedes       Environmental     Used for the prioritization of    Engineer  April      30.0
Economic and        and econimic      works to be included in the   Mario        1995
Environmental      impact assessment Flood Protection Project.      Alegre
Impact              of protection
measures.



28
11) Bella Vista    Master plan for    Permitted the detailing and  Engineer    Appril      80.0
Master Plan        city's flood area.   budgeting for each of the  Horacio      1995
city's works to be in the   Gallardo
Flood Protection Project.
12) Curuzui-Cuatia   Same as above.    Same as above.            Engineer      March      88.0
Nello D'      1995
Ascenzo
13) Esquina Master   Same as above.    Same as above.           Engineer E.    March      100.0
Plan                                                               Mutta        1995
Quiroga
14) Gualaguay      Additional work   Provided further soil studies  Engineer   September    38.0
Geomorphology      for city's master   when decided to increase    Mario        1995
Study for Traza    plan.             protected area due to the    Lasanta
Island                               request of the community.
15) Zarate and     Hydrologic/hydra  Permitted the detailing and  Engineer   July 1995    80.0
Campana            ulic protection   budgeting for flood           Jorge
Hydrologic         plan for city's   protection works to be      Arancibia
Protection Plan    flood area.       executed in the Flood
Protection Project for each
city.
16) San Pedro,     Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer      April      120.0
Baradero, San                                                       Juan        1995
Fernando, Tigre and                                               Sallaber
Escobar Hydrologic
Protection Plan
17) Islas del Delta    Same as above.    Same as above.          Engineer      April      100.0
Hydrologic                                                         Pablo        1995
Protection Plan                                                  Bronstein
18) Formosa        Hydrologic/hydra  Permitted the detailing and  Engineer   November   195.0
Internal Basin     ulic protection   budgeting for flood           Mario        1995
Hydrologic         plan for city's   protection works to be       Ferdkin
Protection Plan    flood area.       executed in the Flood
Protection Project for each
city.
19) Parand         Economic and      Used to prioritze the works to   Engineer  April      50.0
Economic and       envirommental     be financed unde the Flood     Luis        1995
Environmental      impact evaluation.  Protection Project and their  Pucinelli
Impact                               respective environmental
impact.
20) Ibicuy         Same as above.    Same as above.                Tomas       April       20.0
Economic and                                                     Gutirerrez     1995
Environmental
Impact
21) Villa Parancito   Same as above.    Same as above.            Engineer      April    20,000
Economic and                                                       Hector       1995
Environmental                                                     Santarelli
Impact
22) La Paz and     Same as above.    Same as above.             Lilian Boiry    April      48.0
Santa Elena                                                                     1995
Economic and
Environmental
Impact



29
23) Victoria       Same as above.    Same as above.              Professor     April       10.0
Economic and                                                       Maria        1995
Environmental                                                     Galloni
Impact
24) Concepci6n del   Same as above.    Same as above.           Engineer L.    April      48.0
Uruguay Economic                                                  Gonzalez      1995
and Environemtnal                                                  Videla
Impact
25) Gualeguaychui   Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer     April       30.0
Economic and                                                      Osvaldo       1995
Environmental                                                    Postiglioni
Impact
26) Col6n Economic  Same as above.    Same as above.              Enigneer     April       20.0
and Environemtnal                                                 Amalia        1995
Impact                                                             Russo
27) Concordia      Same as above.    Same as above.               Engineer     April       30.0
Economic and                                                    Juan Carlos     1995
Environmental                                                      Giani
Impact
28) Federaci6n     Same as above.    Same as above.               Engineer     April       20.0
Economic and                                                       Emilio       1995
Environmental                                                     Bertero
Impact
29) Santa Fe Intemal Enviromnental    Impact of three flood       Architect    April       12.0
Basins             impact.           protection works to be done   Nora         1995
Environmental                        in the Flood Protection     Clichevsky
Impact                               Project.
30) Resistencia    Evaluation of     To better detail the damages    Nordeste    February  5.4
Damage Assessment  damages caused    associated with the 1991/92  National      1995
by floods.       floods.                     University
31) Santa Fe Internal Economic       Economic evaluation of flood   Engineer   April       12.0
Basins Economic    evaluation of area. protection works, used to  Alberto       1995
Studies                              prioritize investments under    Viladrich
the Flood Protection Project.
32) Goya Damage    Evaluation of     To better detail the damages  National   December    10.2
Assessment         damages caused    associated with the 1991/92  Technical     1994
by floods.       floods.                     University
of
Resistencia
33) Corrientes City   Same as above.    Same as above.            National   December    10.2
Damage Assessment                                                 Technical     1994
University
of
Resistencia
34) Formosa City    Same as above.    Same as above.              National   December    10.2
Damage Assessment                                                 Technical     1994
University
of
Resistencia



30
35) Clorinda       Same as above.    Same as above.               National   December    10.2
Damage Assessment                                                Technical      1994
University
of
Resistencia
36) Santa Fe City  Same as above.    Same as above.                Litoral    January      9.0
Damage Assessment                                                 National      1995
University
37) Santa Fe       Hydrologic/hydra  Permitted the detailing and   Litoral    February    217.0
Province Internal    ulic protection  budgeting for flood         National      1995
Basin Diagnostic   plan for city's   protection works to be      University
flood area.      executed in the Flood
Protection Project for each
city.
38) Damage         Evaluation of     To better detail the damages    Alejandra  March      2.0
Assessment         damages caused    associated with the 1991/92   Caruso       1995
Supervision        by floods.        floods.                       Suarez
39) Hydrological   Hydraulic/hydrolo  A non-structural measure   Professor   June 1997    12.7
Alert System       gical alert system.  which complemented the    Juan B.
physical works and           Valdez
established a link for the
dissemination of pertinent
data to all the provinces.
40) Benefits       Regional study for Used to for the economic    Dr. Juan    December    23.0
Realized under Loan  project's area of   evaluation of the Flood  Alberto       1996
3521-AR            influence and     Protection Project.          Picasso
respective
economic
evaluation.
41) Economic       Same as above.    Same as above.                Jorge     December    18.0
Benefits Realized                                                 Buerba        1996
under Project
42) Hydraulic      Same as above.    Same as above.               Engineer   December    18.0
Benefits Realized                                                 Fernando      1996
Under Project                                                     Gutierrez
43) Environmental   Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer    January      14.4
Impact Realized                                                   Osvaldo       1996
Under Project                                                    Postiglioni
44) Hydraulic       Same as above.    Same as above.              Engineer    February     5.5
Benefits Realized                                                Alejandro      1997
Under Project                                                     Bergman
45) Shelter and    Survey and        Used for identification of  SUCCE and       -
Housing Study      identification of   benificiaries for both Flood    the SUPCEs
populations in   Rehabilitation Project and the
flood prone areas.  Flood Protection Project.
46) Legislative    Study the         Permitted the systemization  SUCCE
Study              legislation related   of specific legislation and the
to floods and their  identification of additional or
emergencies.     modified legislation.



31
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Project Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign       Total
Transport and Energy        30.8      21.2       52.0    71.5        0.0       71.5
Housing                     21.1       0.0       21.1    23.2        0.0       23.2
Emergency Flood Control     38.2      25.5       63.7    86.3         1.5      87.8
Works
Education Facilities       17.45       0.0        17.5    20.1       0.0       20.1
Health Facilities            5.1       0.0        5.1      8.1       0.0         8.1
Water Supply and Drainage   7.45       7.6        15.1    27.1       0.0       27.1
Institution Development      5.4       0.8         6.2    20.7       0.2       20.9
Expected Non-appraised      22.7      12.7       35.4      0.0       0.0         0.0
Projects
Project Base Cost          148.2      67.7      215.9
Physical Contingencies      23.2      11.6       34.8
Price Contingencies         15.9       3.5        19.3
Total Project Costs        187.3      82.7      270.0   257.0        1.7      258.7



32
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                 Actual
Source                Local Foreign Total Duties Local Foreign Total Duties Balance
_&  (Total Act - Total
__                               EAt.)
Taxes                    Taxes
National Government     40.0    0.0 40.0  20.9  35.7    0.0 35.7  15.1        (4.3)
Provincial Governments   40.0    0.0 40.0  27.7  35.8    0.0 35.8  20.0       (4.2)
World Bank (Loan 3280-   10.0   10.0 20.0   0.0  19.9    0.0  19.9   0.0      (0.1)
AR 1st Emergency
Amendment)
World Bank (Loan 3521-  97.3   72.7 170.0   0.0   0.0    1.7 167.2   0.0      (2.8)
AR)
Total                  187.3   82.7 270.0  48.6 257.0    1.7 258.7  35.1    (11.3)
Financing Summary by Category
Category  Category Description       Estimated Disbursement  Actual Disbursement
(US$ millions)        (US$ millions)
1         Civil Works                                  128.9                 133.5
2         Goods                                         13.4                    2.5
3         Consultants                                   10.8                   16.1
4         Housing                                       16.9                   15.1
Total                                                  170.0                  167.2



Rate of Return for Selected Cities in the Upper and Lower Parana Basin*
Year                                    1993    1994    1995    1996        1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004    2009        2006    2007      200$     2009     2090    2011    2012
projecpr Flood Control Investment (USS millions)
Goya (prteleon for SO year event)       0.81     1.81     2.15    0.81     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.09     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.09     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.07     0.09    0.07
Santa Fe (Protectn for 100 yearevent)   7.41    14.83    19.77    7.41     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     1.24     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     1.24     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     1.24    0.91
Gualeguay(Protctionfor100 yearewnt)     0.96     1.12     1.49    0.56     0.05     0.0S     0.05     0.05     0.07     0.05     0.05     0.00     0.05     0.07     0.05     0.05     0.05     0.05     0.07    0.05
Ibicuy(protetionforI00year ewnt)        1.14     2.28     3.04    1.14     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.19     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.16     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12     0.16    0.12
Resistenia (Protection for 150 yearoewnt)  3.17  6.33     8.44    3.17     0.26     0.28     0.28     0.28     0.38     0.28     0.28     0.28     0.28     0.38     0.28     0.28     0.29     0.28     0.38    0.28
Fomnosa(protectiofnfr750yearevent)      5.79    11.58    15.44    5.79     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.58     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.58     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.58    0.42
Clodnda(protectionfor50yearewnt)        3.77     7.53    10.04    3.77     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.24     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.24     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.17     0.24    0.17                     V
Conientes (protecortn for 100 year ewnt)  0.28   0.59    0.74     0.29     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.05     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.05     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.04     0.05    0.04       d       
Total investmient Costs                 22.92    45.84    61.12    22.92
Cost of Operation and Maintenance                                           2.00      2.06     2.06    2.08     2.81     2.09     2.08     2.08     2.06     2.81     2.08     2.08     2.08     2.09     2.81    2.06
Avoidd dDamagn (US$millions)                                                                                                                                                                                               .      
Goya                                     0.0      0.0      0.0     1.2    32.0       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0,4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4
Santa Fe                                 0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      10.8     5.3      5.3      5.4      5.4      5.5      9.8      5.6      5.7      9.7      5.8      5.8      5.9      8.0      6.0     6.1
Gualeogay                                0.0      0.0      0.0     2.2    16.0       4.4      4.4      4.4      4.5      4.5      4.6      4.6      4.7      4.7      4.8      4.8      4.9      4.9      8.0      5.0              Z
Ihicuy                                   0.0      0.0      0.0     1.7      3.0      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2
Resislencia                              0.0      0.0      0,0    25.0    116.3      20.4     20.6    20.9    21.1      21.3     21.5    21.7    21.9    22.1        22.4     22.9     22.8     23.0    23.3    23.5
Fomlosa                                  0.0      0.0      0.0     0,0      0.0      3.3      3.3      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.5      3.5      3.5      3.6      3.6      3.6      3.7      3.7      3.7     3.8   ,g
Clorlnda                                 0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      2.5      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.8      2.8      2.8      2.9      2.9     2.9                 i
Correntes                                0.0      0.0      0.0     1.4      3.4      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.9      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7     0.7                O      i
Total Benefit                             0.0      0.0      0.0    31.5    197.5      39.0     38.3    38.7    39.1      39.5    39.9    40.3    40.7    41.1         41.5     41.9     42.3     42.8    43.2    43.8 
Net Present Value Benefts              -22.92   -45.84   -01.12     8.53   185.48    35.90    36.28    36.68    38.30    37.44    37.83    39.23    38.83    38.29    39.45    39.87    40.20    40.7i   40.39    41.57    3
IERR-                                  35.1%                                                                                                                                                                               >          O                Lk)
NPV (USt millions) a                   041.9
Notes: Minimum Acceptable Rate of Retum = 12%                                                                                                                                                                               '
Project lIfe = 20 years (commonly accepted life for rehabilitated earth works)
Operation anci Maintenance = 2.2% of strucurai flood protection Inyesdment per annum and 3% every Onve yea0. 
Fmm 1998 to 2012, avoided damage is based an the average annual avoided damages (AAAD) per city (rnfnomatiOn provided by Borrower                                                                                   -^
Al figums in 1993 US Dolars
AAAD are based on per capitaflgums, than as population increases so does AAAD. 19970Wo9M Bank Dewlopment Indicators reports that population growth for Argentina from 1995-2010 is expected to be 1.0% per annum.   C
Costs do not consider financing charges during the oonsfrcfon perod.
Avoided damages am onsideed at a level of85% completion of the inwstments.                                                                                                                                           D;
Senstivy Aamlys                                                                                                                                                                                                            S          V
Case                                  Rate of Retum          NPV
(%)          (USS millions)
Base Case                                  35.1              041.9
Maintenance Cost * 100%                    34.2              608.7
Benefits: 50% of the 1998 to 2012 AAAD     27.9              339.4
25% of the 1698to2012AAAD          22.8              183.7
25% of the AAAD and Malotenanre Coats +    20.8              148.5
100%                                       2.                4.
AAAD instead os 1997 Flod                  20.5              492.4
-Averase annual avoicbed damages, investment costs, avrided damage curves for the eight cites were all compiled by SUCCE through studies conducted by the Provinces. consuKcants and from hydroinchydraulic data supplied by INCYTH.



Agreement       Section   Status    Original Dat    Revised Date Description of Covenant                              Comments
Loan Agreement  2.02(b)     OK                                   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollaras a special
account.
Loan Agreement    2.03      OK      March 31, 1995  March 31,1998 The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995.           Loan extended four times for
three years.
Loan Agreement  3.01 (a)    OK                                   Borrower shall carry out the project with due diligence and
efficiency.
The Borrower shall enter into agreements with each                                             e
Loan Agreement   3.01(b)    OK                                   Province a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Loan Agreement  3.01 (d)    OK                                   Borrower shall carry out the project according to the
implementation schedule.
The Borrower shall carry out procurement according to the
Loan Agreement    3.02      OK                                   provincsion of the agreement.
Loan Agreement   3.03(a)    OK                                   The Borrower shall maintain a SUCCE for project
coordination.
Loan Agreement   3.03(b)    OK                                   The Borrower shall provide funds, staff, facilities and other     
resources required by SUCCE.
Loan Agreement   3.03(c)    OK                                   The Borrower shall continue to hire the Project Consultant.
The Borrower shall fumish to the Bank progress reports no                                 -
Loan Agreement  3.04(a)     OK                                   no later than January 31, May 31, and September 30 of each
year.
Loan Agreement  3.04(b)     OK                                   The Borrower shall review with the Bank in October 1993                             O          Z
project progress.                                                                  *       e
Loan Agreement    3.05      OK                                   The Borrower shall apply the Project Operational Manual.
Loan Agreement   3.07(a)    OK       July 7,1994                 The Borrower shall submit for Bank comment the studies                             IQ
under Part B.2(a) of the Project.                                                             M
Loan Agreement   3.07(b)    OK       July 7, 1993                The Borrower shall submit for Bank Comment the terms of
reference under Part B.2(a) of the Project.
The Borrower shall furnish to the no later than January 31,                        m       i 'i
Loan Agreement    3.08      OK    January 31, 1993                1993 a list of emergency subprojects to be financed by the
loan.w     
The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts
Loan Agreement  4. 01 (a)   OK                                   in accordance with sound accounting principles.
The Borrower shall records and accounts audited bi-
Loan Agreement  4.01 (b)    OKanuly
annually.
Loan Agreement  4.01 (c)    OK                                   The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts of
statements of expenditures.
Loan Agreement    6.01      OK       April 4, 1993   March 24, 1993 The Borrower shall achieve all conditions of effectiveness.



35
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no lack of compliance with applicable Operational Manual Statements. The
most relevant statements are: Operational Directive 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance);
Operational Directive 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); and Operational Directive 11.00
(Procurement).



36
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'
Stage of Project Cycle      Planned2              Revised'             Actual
Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks          US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                           17.0     50,832
Appraisal                                                          27.7     74,667
Negotiations through                                                5.7     18,099
Board approval
Supervision                                                        103.9    291,464
Completion                                                          9.6      9,212
TOTAL                                                              163.9    444,274
Inputs according to Financial and Cost Application (FACT) as of August 25, 1998.
2 Not available.



37
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month/year    Number of   Days          Specialized staff    Performance   Types of problems/issues
cycle                                persons      in       skills represented       rating
field                           IS      DO
Through appraisal
Pre-appraisal       July 1992          12          19     All infrastructure sub-
sectors
Appraisal             None
Negotiations through board approval
No mission
Supervision
1.                  Oct. 1992          2           12        TM, Consultant        I       1    Accelerate presidential decree to allow
Loan signing
2.                  Dec. 1992           1          3              TM               -       -    Completion of Loan signing steps
3.                 March 1993           1          15             TM               2       1    Steps to Loan effectiveness
4.                  June 1993           2          18         TM, Highway          2       1    Province of Buenos Aires delay in
Engineer                        implementation
5.                  Oct. 1993           2          17         TM, Engineer         2       1    Implementation delays in Buenos Aires
and Formosa and delay in delivery of
National counterpart funds
6.                  Feb. 1994           1          3              TM               -       -    Implementation delays in Buenos Aires
and Formosa
7.                 March 1994           2          12         TM, Engineer         2       1    Same as above
8.                  May 1994            1          1              TM               -       -    Partial mission
9.                  July 1994           2          12         TM, Engineer         S      HS   Withdrawal of non-essential
subprojects that were not awarded by
June 30, 1994
10.                 Dec. 1994          2           14     TM, Environmentalist     S      HS   Flood Protection Preparation and
procurement delays
11.                 May 1995           4           18                              S      HS   Delays in supply in National
counterpart funds
12.                 June 1995           1          4              TM                            Partial mission
13.                 Sept. 1995          1          14             TM               S      HS    Delays in supply in National
counterpart funds
14                  Dec. 1995          3           11       TM, Engineer (2),      -            Partial mission, preparation of Flood
Environmentalist                    Protection Project
15.                 Jan. 1996           1          6              TM               -            Partial mission
16.                 Feb. 1996           1          3              TM               -            Technical difficulties with the Laguna
Blanca and Costanera works



38
17.                May 1996           1          14             TM              S      HS   GoA paid 1995 counterpart funds, now
delays with 1996
18.                Sept. 1996         1          15             TM              S       S    Timing delays in completion of three
major works
19.                Nov. 1996          1          3              TM                           Same as above
20.                 Jan. 1997         1          7              TM              S       S    GoA 1996 counterpart fund delays and
advancement of works in Laguna
Blanca and Costanera
21.                 Feb. 1997         1          3              TM              S       S    1996 National counterpart fund
22.                March 1997         4          15      Division Chief, TM,                 Completion of the Laguna Blanca
Engineer,                      works
Environmentalist,
23.                 May 1997          1          11           Engineer          S       S    Pending works
24.                June 1997          1          9            Engineer                       Technical visit with members of
SUCCE to several US agencies dealing
with flood and emergency management
25.                 July 1997         1           1           Engineer                       Review of pending issues
26                  Oct. 1997         2        1          TM, Sector Leader                  Closing date extension
Completion
1.              | March 1998          3          14          Engineer           S       S    ICR/final supervision mission
Note: The above list attempts to include all formal and informal field visits to the client, however some additional
short visits from Bank staff members and consultants made either from the Bank office in Buenos Aires or at the
opportunity of other Bank missions may have been omitted.



39
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex 1 - Housing Component
Province                No. of         No. of Units        Housing Issue for        Physical       Cost'
Locations                                                 Advancement
Planned   Actual2   Repaired       New                         US$
Buenos Aires              9           513        513                    513          100%         1,898,000
Corrientes                22            -       1,120                  1,120         100%        4,179,000
Chaco                     16          494        514                    514          100%        2,005,150
Entre Rios                 -            -         -          -           -             -
Formosa                   18          1,944      951        110         841          100%        3,510,823
Misiones                  19          1,000     1,450        -          1450         100%        5,771,000
Santa Fe                  26         2,250      1,272        -          1272         100%        5,277,032
Total Project            110         6,201      5,820       110        5,710         100%        22,641,005
l US$23,160,000 was allocated to this disbursement category, as stated in the October 4, 1996 aide-memoire.
2 Actual Number of units includes the March 1994 anu other re-assignments of 5,107 units among the participating
provinces and the additional 739 units declared by the provinces.



40
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3521-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Annex 2 - Project Timetable Summary
Date                                      Item
June 16 - July 4, 1992      Bank identification and appraisal mission per the request of the
Argentine Government.
August 14, 1992             First emergency amendment to the Provincial Development I
Project (Loan 3280-AR).
September 4, 1992           Flood Rehabilitation Project's Memorandum of the President
presented to the Board.
September 29, 1992          Board Approves Flood Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR).
January 7, 1993             The Argentine Government signs Loan 3521-AR.
March 24, 1993              The Bank declares Loan 3521-AR effective.
April 23, 1993              Bank approves first loan amendment that modifies financing
percentages due to none disbursements in 1992.
March 31, 1995              Original Closing Date, extended for first time on November 9,
1994.
March 31, 1996              Second Closing Date, extended for second time on November
13, 1995.
December 31, 1 9S6          Third Closing Date, extended for third time December 23,
1996.
September 30, 1997          Fourth Closing Date, extended for fourth time on October 1,
1997.
March 31, 1998              Final Closing Date.
July 22, 1998               Last Bank disbursement made.



41
Appendix A
Republica Argentina
Programa de Rehabilitaci6n para las Inundaciones 3521-AR
Proyecto de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones 4117-AR
Segunda Enmienda de Emergencia del Prestamo 3280-AR
Psoyecto de Emergencia de Inundaciones El Nifio 4273-AR
1. Una Mbisin del Banco Mundial integrada por los Ings. Adrien Campbell y Ede ljassz y
el Sr. Livio Pino, mAs la participacifn en las visitas a las proviias del NOA del Sr.
Asif Faiz, Jefe Sectorial (de Finaszas, Sector Privado e lifraestructura - Argentia -
Chile y Uruguay de la oficina del Banco en Buenos Aires) visit6 la Argentina entre los
dias 9 y 26 de marzo de 1998, para superuisar el cierre del Pristamo 3521-AR de
Rehabilitaci6n para la Emer8encia de las Inundaciones, supervisar el avance del
Prestawno 4117-AR de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones, y supervisar las acdones para La
puesta en efectividad del Pr&stamo 4273-AR, Provecto. para las Inundaciones por la
Emergencia de El Nifio. La Mision agradece las atenciones recibidas por parte de Ins
autoridades de la TJEC, el personal de la SUCCE Y las SUPCEs, y todos los
hundonarios de los Gobiernos de las provncias visitadas de Chaco, Entre Rios,
TucumAz, Salta, La Rioia.
2. Los acuerdos y recomendaciones contenidos en este Ayuda Memoria estin sujetos a
su posterior confirmadon por intermedio de una carta a ser emitida por el Banco
lvMundiaL
Asuntos Generales
3. La Misi6n tuvo su reuni6n de apertura el dia 9 de marzo de 1998 en dependencias de
la Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias del vrinisterio del Interior
contando con la presencia del Sefior Secretario y de representantes de la Jeftura de
MvIinistro y del Ministerio de Econornia de Obras v Servicios Publicos. La reuni6n de
cierre se realiz6 en la Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros con las mismas partes.
4. La M.isi6n ha constatado que se encuentra atrasado el tramite de aprobaci6n del
Prestamo 4273-AR. El Banco aprob6 dicho prestamo el dia 20 de enero de 1998, y
luego de recibida la comunicaci6n el Ministerio del Interior inici6 los trimites del
proyecto de Decreto aprobatorio del prestamo. A tal fin realiz6 las traducciones y
solicit6 los correspondientes informes y dictimenes intemos para el refrendo del sefior
Ministro del Interior. El proyecto de decreto. con el refrendo del sehior Ministro del
I



Interior se remiti6, el 16 de febrero de 1998, al vIinisterio de Economia y Obras y
Servicios Publicos para continuar con los trimites necesarios en dicho Mlinisterio. El
Decreto debe ser suscripto por el seifor Mtinistro de Economia y Obras y Servicios
Publicos, el sentorjefe de Gabinete de Mlinistros y el sefior Presidente de la Naci6n.
La misi6n se entrevist6 con el sefior Director Nacional de Proyectos con Organismos
Intemacionales del hEvOSP y le manifest6 su preocupaci6n por la demora en la
tramitaci6n del proyecto de Decreto. El sefior Director Nacional inform6 que los
atrasos se debian a trimites burocraticos.
Con respecto a las Enmiendas a los Prestamos 3280-AR y 4117-AR la misi6n constat6
que la primera ya se encuentra firmada y la seguncda fue firmada por el sefior ivnistro
del Interior y se tramita la comunicaci6n al Banco por parte del sefior MINnistro de
Economia y Obras y Servicios Ptiblicos. En el Anexo I se detafla el estado de la
tramitaci6n.
5. La SUCCE inform6 a la Misi6n sobre la nueva estructura funcional de la UEC que
comprende la ejecuci6n de todos los Programas con financiamiento extermo en el
ambito del Ministerio del Interior. Tambien entreg6 a la Misi6n el documento que
refleja esta nueva estructura, la que se encuentra en conocimiento del Banco MIundial a
trav6s de su envio a otra Divisi6n Operativa del mismo.
6. En las reuniones que la Miisi6n mantuvo con las SUlPCEs, ya sea en la SUCCE o en las
provincias visitadas, aquellas plantearon su preocupaci6n por las demoras que se
producen en generaL en los tramites en la UEC y con el BIRF. Basado nuestras
preocupaciones el Anexo II la risi6n indica una guia para acelerar tiempos de
tramitaci6n.
7. El Supervisor General prepararA los modelos de Planillas para que las SUPCEs
irforrnen peri6dicamente sobre la marcha de los subproyectos (Obras y Bienes) en los
Prestamos 4117-AR y 4273-AR. De igual modo preparara los modelos de Planiflas para
que las SUPCEs informen peri6dicamente sobre los distintos contratos que se suscriban
en la categoria de servicios de consultoria o asistencia segiin las previsiones de los
respectivos Prestamos indicados mas arriba.
La misi6n recomienda instalar en todas SUPCES un sistema On line para actualizr la
informaci6n. Se preve que el mismo estara conectado al 30 de mayo de 1998.
8. Informes. La Misi6n ha indicado que los Informes cuatimestrales previstos para la
STJCCE y para el Supervisor General en los Convenios de Prestamo 4117-AR y 4273-
AR, y en el Manual Operativo deberan cubrir cuatimestres sucesivos a partir de las
fechas iniciales de entrega que se indican a continuaci6n.
4          | Prestamo 4117-AR (PPI)       Prestamo 4273-AR (El Nno)
Q  SUCCE    , 30 Abril - 31 Agosto - 311 30 Junio - 31 Octubre - 28 Febrero
________ .Didembre                   3
i Supervisor 28 Febrero - 30 Junio - 31 30 Abril 31 Agosto - 31 Diciembre
General    Octubre
2



El primer Informe Cuatrimestral del Supervisor General correspondiente al
Prestamo 4117-AR ya fue entregado.
Los informes de la SUCCE y del Supervisor General correspondientes a ambos
Prestamos seran enviados a la sede del Banco en Washington y al Jefe del Sector
de Infraestnuctura en la oficina de Buenos Aires del Banco, Sr. Asif Faiz.
Capacitaiodn en Adquisiciones
9. La SUCCE solicit6 al Banco la realizaci6n de un Semmanio sobre Adquisiciones
destinado a los Prestamos 4117-AR y 4237-AR y en atenci6n a la incorporaci6n de las
provincias del NOA.
10. Basado en la experiencia del PREI y en las primeras actividades del PPI, la Misi6n
propuso a la SUCCE que envie al Banco un documento aclaratorio de la definici6n de
aquellos terminos del vocabulario de uso local y su equivalente en el texto de los
Pliegos de Bienes y Obras, con el objeto que el Banco lo analice.
Programa de Rehabilitaci6n (PREI - Prestamo 3521-AR)
11. GeneraL Este Programa concluve el 31 de marzo de 1998. El Subprovecto de
Emergecia elegible de Laguna Blanca (Obra de Control de la derivaci6n del Rio
Negro- Chaco) esta pricticamente terminado. Ademas de ello existen tres
Subproyectos cuya termunad6n queda a cargo de las provincias respectivas. En lo que
respecta al Subprograma de Viviendas se encuentran en construcci6n las ultimas
viviendas en las provincias de Mhlisiones y Formosa (alrededor de 38 en total) las
cuales se encuentran avanzadas en un 80%.
12. Los subproyectos de Emergencia cuya termunaci6n queda a cargo de las provincias
son tres y su situaci6n es la que se detalla a continuaci6n
(i) Rehabilitaci6n de un tramo de la Defensa de la Avda. Costanera de Corrientes
CapitaL Como el nivel del rio Parani sigue muy alto impidiendo trabajar en la
obra. El monto no utilizado del contrato es $ 11.819,17
(ii) Reposicionaniiento de la Cloaca MAxima de La Paz, Entre Rios. Como el nivel
del Rio Parana sigue alto ello esta impidiendo trabajar en la obra. El monto no
utilizado del contrato es $ 17.317.-
(iii) Reconstrucci6n de las Defensas de Las Palmas-La Leonesa, Chaco. Obra
suspendida con un avance del 98% por problemas tkcnicos de suelos y de aportes
hidricos no previstos. El monto no utilizado del contrato es S 27.558,39. El
contratista realiz6 un estudio que permnite solucionar los problemas con una
inversi6n adicional de aproximadamente 600.000.-S. El Programa PREI no dispone
ni de fondos ni de tiempo para su realizaci6n en el mismo. Para el caso de que la
provincia no pueda concluir esta obra con sus propios recursos, se ha incluido la
misma en el listado de Segunda Prioridad del Proyecto de Protecci6n contra
Inundaciones. Eventualmente podria analizarse la posibilidad de pasar esta obra
de segunda a primera prioridad en ocasi6o del 'mid term review". Hasta tanto se
presente esta ocasi6n la Misi6n sugiere que la STJPCE posibilite una suspensi6n de
los t6rminos del contrato de obra.
3



(iv) La Mfisi6n a su regreso a Washington analizara la posibilidad de continuar el
financiarniento de las dos obras indicadas en los paragrafos (i) y (ii) hasta el 31 de
mavo de 1998 teniendo en cuenta la situacion de que el rio permanece en un nivel
alto desde hace varios meses impidiendo la terminaci6n de las obras. Este
financiamient6 es de un monto estimado en S 30.000.- Dicho financiamiento no
significa amplia6ion de obra, sino la terminaci6n de los trabajos pendientes.
13. Obra de Control de Laguna Blanca. Se visit6 la obra y se verific6 la necesidad de
realizar algunas tareas pendientes, a saber ajuste de sellos de las tres compuertas,
reemplazo de seUos en el umbraL repintado de las compuertas, ejecuci6n de junta
rehundida y otras menores. El Contratista tambien debe entregar corregidos los
planos conforme a obra y el Manual de Operaciones antes del 15 de abril de 1998.
Una vez que los integrantes del Panel hagan llegar su respuesta al cilculo de
verificaci6n de la zona de disipaci6n hecho por el contratista se podra realiza la
segunda fase del Panel de Expertos. Tentativamente se establece el siguiente
cronograma: Terminaci6n de tareas pendientes por parte del contratista para el 30 de
marzo, precarga de la obra por un mes (abril), y realizaci6n del Panel de Expertos del
4 al 7 de mayo de 1998. La SUJPCE podra recibir provisoriamente la obra
inmediatamente despues de recibir las concdusiones v recomendaciones del PaneL La
Misi6n a su regreso a Washington analizari la posibilidad de pagar los fondos
remanentes hasta el 31 de mayo de 1998, estimado en $ 100.000.- en los cuales se
incluyen los gastos derivados de una segunda fase del Panel de Expertos.
14. Contrapartida Provincial adeudada. La Misi6n ha verificado que al cierre del
Prestamo PREI existe la siguiente deuda de contrapartida provincial:
Formosa S 2.493.932.-
Misiones 5  379.420.-
Se espera que estas provincas puedan poner al dia lo adeudado a fin de que esto no
entorpezca el comienzo de los trabajos del Provecto de Protecci6n contra
Inundaciones.
15. Irnforme de cierre. En base a lo acordado previamente, la SUCCE enviara al Banco los
elementos para que el Banco elabore su Informe de Cierre. La StUCCE enviara al
Banco dicha informaci6n, se enviara al BIRF para el 15 de mayo de 1998, atendiendo
primero las necesidades y requerimientos de las SU-PCEs.
Proyecto de Proteccidn contra Inundaciones 4117-AR
16. General. El prestamo esta efectivo desde el 21 de octubre de 1997 v estan operativas
las provincias de Chaco, Entre Rios, Corrientes. Las Provincias de Buenos Aires y
Santa Fe ya tienen los Convenios de Prestamo Subsidiario suscripto v se encuentran
realizando los tramites legales para elevar la documentaci6n para su efectividad en la
primera quincena de abril. La Misi6n ha establecido como objetivo que hasta el 31 de
cdidembre de 1998 los desembolsos BIRF alcancen un monto de 5 10.000.000.- Este
valor a la fecha indicada supone un atraso de 2,5 meses respecto del Cronograma de
Delsembolsos. A la fecha de este Ayuda Memoria dicho atraso es de 7 meses. El detalle
del monto indicado puede verse en el Anexo III "Ejecuci6n Prevista del PPI hasta el
4



31 de diciernbre de 1998". La Misi6n tambien estableci6 como objetivo que antes del
31 de diciembre de 1998 puede estar comenzada la ejecuci6n de 300 unidades de
vivienda. Se comprueba que la persistencia de las Uluvias en la regi6n, las que a su
vez prolongan el estado de emergencia, han obligado a las provincias a atender
principalmente esta, ubicando en segundo termino a los trabajos del PPI.
En lo que respecta a la Enmienda de flexbilizaci6n parcial del Prestamo 4117-AR, que
fue negociada en la sede del Banco en didembre de 1997, La musma se encuentra
firmada por el Ministro del Interior luego que el Ministro de Economia determinase
que no era necesaria su firma. No obstante, al Ministro de Economia le corresponde
comunicar esta circunstancia al Banco. En el Anexo IV "Condiciones de Efectividad
de las Provncias en los Prestamos 4117-AR y 4273-AlR se indica el estado en que se
encuentran los tiimites para declarar elegibles las provindas restantes. Cabe destacar
que la Enmienda al 4117-AR ha sido negociada y firmada por el BIRF en forma ripida
y habiendo trascurrdo aproximadamente tres meses la misma no ha sido puesto en
prictica. La Misi6n senala una fuerte preocupaci6n dado que el procedimiiento
permitira agilizar los tramites de contrataci6n de obras en el PPI y la vigencia en dicha
Ermienda es de solo un aho.
17. En la reuni6n de la Nisi6n con la SUPCE de Buenos Aires, esta present6 un anilisis
basado en las estimaciones de los distintos consultores que estan efectuando los
diseflos finales de los subprovectos  previstos y basados en los reclamos de las
comunidades locales. De este arilisis se concluve que los costos originales previstos
para los distintos subproyectos se incrementaran sensiblemente y en la mayoria de los
casos debido al crecimiento extraordinauio de la actividad econ6mica que se verifica
en el area de influencia. La SUPCE present6 una planilUa resumen discriada por
obra, razones que causan los incrementos y los montos de los mismos. La misi6n
manifest6 su preocupaci6n por este tema, teniendo en cuenta que el Proyecto fue
elaborado a estudios previos especificos. La SUCCE va inici6 La revisi6n y anhlisis de
estos antecedentes y posteriormente los remnitiri al Banco, por grupo de subproyectos
para agilizar la continuidad de la tramitaci6n. El Banco harA conocer su
recomendaci6n especifica obra por obra.
18. La SUPCE Buenos Aires indic6 tambien que los refugios tienen un costo estimado de 5
210.000, sensiblemente mayor que el acordado previamente por todas las SUPCEs en
el proceso de preparad6n del Proyecto ($ 80.000.-) . La Misi6n indic6 que los Refugios
deberan hacerse por el monto establecido para la estructura basica y que
eventualmente la Provincia podra financiar por su cuenta los adicionales o elementos
complementarios debidamente justificados.
19. La provincia del Chaco ha concentrado todos su esfuerzos de los (ltimos meses en
lidtar obras y bienes bajo los terminos de la Segunda Enmienda de Emergencia al
Prestamo 3280-AR. No obstante, en el Anexo III se incluyen aqueflos subproyectos que
la SUPCE Chaco espera lidtar en este afio.
La Mfisi6n visit6 la provincia, tuvo una reuni6n con el Gobernador de la provincia,
recorri6 los lugares en donde se efectuarin obras, y tuvo una reuni6n en la SUPCE. Se
acord6 que esta preparara los proyectos ejecutivos para las obras del terraplen de la
Defensa norte de Resistencia y el Cierre Lateral sobre el Rio ParanL. El Banco solicit6 a
S



la Provincia que dicte una Resolud6n para enviar al Banco antes del 15 de mayo de
1998 que unifique en un solo texto ordenado las disposiciones de la ley de Aguas del
Chaco y de la Ley de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones. La SUPCE tambien indic6 que
desea que la ampliaci6n del Canal Soberania Nacional pase a obra de la primera etapa.
El Banco estudiari esta solicitud y enviari su opini6n. La Misi6n refle6 su
preocupacion por la ampliaci6n del area del lago compensador y sus probables
consecuencias ecol6gicas considerando que es necesario realizar previamente un
estudio ambiental ademas del anailsis integral y global del problema que debera ser
abarcativo y debera contemplar todos los factores en juego.
20. La provincia de Entre Rios ha estado trabajando estos il1timos meses en comenzar el
PPI. Ya han realizados sus tres primeras licitaciones de obras y tiene en proceso de
estudio el anilisis de ofertas de las dos primeras. En el Anexo puede verse el detalle
de los subproyectos licitados o pr6ximos a licitarse. La Misi6n mantuvo usn reuni6n
con el Gobernador quien maxufest6 el interes de la provincia en participar en el
Proyecto de Inumdaciones por la emergencia de El Nino y en impulsar todo lo posible
la implementaci6n del PPI. Visto el interes de la provincia por efechar obras de
mejoramiento del Acceso a Puerto Ibicuy desde la Ruta 12, la Misi6n recomend6 que
se efectiie un Estudio de Factibilidad Tenica de la obra citada.
21. La provincia de Corrientes espera enviar para su no objeci6n uno o dos subproyectos
para comenzar este afo cuvo detalle pueda verse en el -Anexo. La SUTPCE ha estado
dedicada a preparar pliegos para licitar obras y bienes con la segunda enmieuia. La
SUPCE sefial6 que ha analizado el costo de los Refugios v su conclusi6n es que no lo
pueden constrir con el costo convenido en 1997. La NMsi6n indic6 que los refugios
deben hacerse por el monto establecido para la estructura basica y que eventualmente
la  proviia podra financiar por su  cuenta  los adicionales o elementos
complementaxios debidamente justificados. El Banco analizara los nuevos costos de la
SUPCE a su llegada a Washington y hara legar su opini6n al respecto.
22. La SUPCE de Santa Fe estima enviar a la SUCCE para su no objeci6n cuatro
subproyectos para ser licitados en este afio. En el Anexo se incluye el detalle de los
miismos.
23. Misiones. La provincia ha manifestado su interes en poder financiar con fondos del
PPI las obras de saneaniento y sistemadzaci6n de cinco arroyos en la ciudad de
Posadas (Ita, Divisa Vicario, Mitre y Antonica) en vez de las obras previstas. La
Misi6n indic6 que esta  efimaiaci6n no es posible a traves del PPI pero si lo es a traves
del Proyecto El Nino pues el area que nos ocupa sufri6 el efecto Nifno superando los
criterios definidos en el Manual Operativo. De todos modos la Misi6n indic6 que el
Banco continuara estudiando este tema. La SUPCE Misiones tambien manifest6 su
interes en ejecutar viviendas por el sistema tecnico de prefabricaci6n en madera. Al
respecto la Misifn indic6 que este tema s6lo seni analizado en casos excepcionales,
debidamente ju.stificados caso por caso.
\t    24. La Misi6n manlifiesta su preocupaci6n por la falta de avance de la provincia de
Formosa en los distintos aspectos que hacen al proyecto PPI.
6



25.Capital Federal. La Misi6n mantuvo una reuni6n con el Coordinador Ejecutivo de la
UEP quien presento una nota preguntando si pude licitarse una obra previendo que el
disefo de ingenieria quede a cargo del mismo Contratista. La Nisi6n indic6 que la
complejidad del proyecto relativo al-Arrovo Mlaldonado hace aconstable que prnmero
se realice el disefio de ingenieria completo, y posteriormente en una segunda instancia
se liciten los trabajos de construcci6n de acuerdo con lo informado por el BIRF en
comuriicaciones anteriores. Con relaci6n a la ley de Endeudamiento el Coordinador
Ejecutivo de la UEP seiial6 que el correspondiente provecto de ley ya esti presentado
en la Legislatura de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires.
Como esta es una nueva Legislatura, dado el cambio de status juridico de la Ciudad de
Buenos Aires, que comenz6 su labor el 10 de diciembre de 1997 tiene muchos proyectos
de ley en espera de su tratamiento.
Los fondos previstos en el PPI incluven el Estudio de las obras de los arroyos
Mlaldonado, Vega y Medrano.
El Jefe de la UEP tambien indic6 que a traves de la financiaci6n del Prestamo de
Desarrollo Provincial se realizara un plan maestro de desagues pluviales para toda el
area metropolitana y el fortaledmiento institudconal de la Direcci6n de Hidriulica que
ser la Ulnidad Ejecutora de los estudios a contratar.
26. Alerta I-Hidrologico. La Misi6n sefial6 que el sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico deberi
estar instalado para el 30 de junio del 2000. Para ello senr necesanio que las Provincias
completen sus requerimientos sobre estaciones de medicion a la SUCCE antes del 30
de abril de 1998. La SUCCE finalizari la recopilaci6n de datos con las provincias,
tomando en cuenta todas las demnandas provinciales. La SUCCE deberi contratar el
servicio de dos Consultores para preparar los Pliegos de Condiciones para el lamado
Internadonal del nuevo sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico a entregar lave en mano. La
tarea deberi estar concluida para 31 de diciembre de 1998. Finalmente la Misi6n
manifest6 su interes de que en breve tiempo las Provincias, el DNA, y el Ministerio del
Interior acuerden por escrito los terminos de la implementaci6n, operaci6n y
mantenimiento del Alerta Hidrol6gico financiado por el PPL, basado en el Convertio
de Cooperaci6n suscripto entre el Ministerio del Interior y el INA (ex-INCyTH) para el
PREI. Se espera que dicho Convenio se formalice para el 30 de junio de 1998
27. Aspectos Ambientales. Se ha converido que la SUCCE contrate el Consultor
Ambiental (extemo) para el 31 de mayo de 1998 Este Consultor deberi preparar un
plan ambiental que incluya la evaluaci6n de la capacidad ambiental de las SUPCEs y
las acciones de coordinaci6n a llevar a cabo para que las SUPCEs impulsen Jiunto con
los respectivos organismos provinciales responsables del Medio Ambiente planes de
educaci6n ambientaL estudios sobre la gesti6n y manejo de los residuos urbana en
ireas de intervenci6n del PPI (por ejemplo: Formosa CapitaL Resistencia, Parana, etc.)
mediante la elaboraci6n de guias y planes piloto. Los TDR seran enviados al Banco
antes del 10 de mayo de 1998. El consultor ambiental tambien debera delinear planes
para incrementar la capacitaci6n de los expertos ambientales en las provincias
procurando contar con la participacifn de las Universidades de la regi6n en los
C-N      estudios. Los estudios de capacidad ambiental estarin diuigidos a profundizar las
caracteristicas propias de cada regi6n. El consultor ambiental deberi tener preparados
estos planes para el 30 de setiembre de 1998. Los planes preparados por el consultor
ambiental seran analizados en detalle durante el mid term review.
7



28. Sistema de Administracion Financiera ( FNIS). El Sr. Livio Pino informara al Banco por
separado lo tratado al respecto. El Consultor Sr. Giordano esti elaborando un informe
que sera entregado al Sr. Pino a fin de marzo. Basado en este informe mis la
informaci6n recolectada durante la visita del Sr. Pino, el Banco enviara sus
recomendaciones dentro del mes de abril de 1998. La MVisi6n recomend6 la realizaci6n
de un taller sobre Monitoreo de la Gesti6n Contable basado en el punto de vista de
operaci6n e implementaci6n del Proyecto, destinado a la SUCCE y SUPCES.
El banco analiz6 las modificaciones propuestas para el sistema de vouchers para el
Subprograma de Viviendas, y no tiene comentarios al respecto. Al regreso de la
Mvisi6n a Washington, el Banco confirmara por nota lo indicado.
Segunda Enmienda de Emergencia al Prestamo 3280-AR
29. GeneraL Esta Enmienda fue firmada por el Ministro de Economia el 17 de febrero de
1998. La SUCCE ha indicado su preocupaci6n por la fecha de cierre del 30 de junio de
1998 para esta Enmienda en raz6n de los tiempos de ejecuci6n de los Subproyectos de
Emergencia Elegibles ya identificados, que en su totalidad se ejecutarin en zonas en
las cuales persisten condiciones climaticas adversas que pueden retrasar los trabajos.
Esta preocupacion se extiende tambien a la drcunstancia de que siendo el 3280-AR un
Prestamo pr6ximo al cierre los desembolsos se van reduciendo y los contratistas de
esta Enmienda tendran mas demoras para el cobro de sus cerffficados. En el Anexo V
"Listado de los Subproyectos de Emergencia Elegibles a ejecutar con la Segunda
Enmienda de Emergencia al Prestamo 3280-AR", se detallan las obras y adquisiciones
solicitadas por las Provincias.
Proyecto de Emergencia de Inundaciones El Nifio 4273-AR
30. General. El Anexo VI "Estudio hidrol6gico para el NOAN' La Misi6n y la SUCCE
completaron el borrador de los t6rminos de referencia para realizar una consultoria
para la recopilaci6n de informaci6n base para el posterior estudio del riesgo regional
del NiOA. El Estudio del Riesgo Regional del NOA esta separado en dos fases: por una
parte la obtenci6n de informad6n, y por otra, simultaneamente la SUCCE completara
los Terminos de Referencia para el Estudio Regional basado en la informad6n
recolectada en la primera fase. El Banco remzitira su opini6n final sobre los TDR de la
primera parte al regreso de la misi6n a Washington. Se estima que los TDR definitivos
para el estudio regional del NOA se enviaran al Banco para el 15 de julio de 1998.
Una  prixnera  versi6n  de  un  Manual de  Operaciones sobre indicadores
hidrometeorol6gicos de eventos extraordinarios para la fase de rehabilitad6n y
criterios e indicadores que permitiran establecer la procedencia de efectuar o no
trabajos de rehabilitaci6n en cada caso puntual que presente necesidad de realizar
dicho tipo de trabajos. La SUCCE enviara al Banco sus comentarios al texto del Anexo
VI.
i         Se encuentra en ft-mite el Decreto de Poder Ejecutivo Nacional el Decreto aprobando
el Convenio de Prestamo 4273-AR. Se estima que el Decreto podria estar firmado en
Z. t- los primeros dias de abriL Una vez promulgado el Decreto podra firmarse el
8



Convenio de Prestamo. La Misi6n indic6 que el Banco Ulevara a cabo una Mlisi6n en
Mlayo de 1998 con el objetivo de poner en marcha el Prestamo.
31. Provincias del Litoral.
i) Buenos Aiies. La SUPCE ha manifestado su interfes en participar con un
subproyecto de protecci6n de ribera en Areas de escuelas en el Delta del rio Parani
ii) Comerntes. Present6 su Ley de Endeudamiento por S3 millones miis la
posibilidad de duplicar esta cifra.
ill) Clhaco. Esta provincia no descarta la posibilidad de participar en este Proyecto
pues se esthn produciendo inundaciones en Areas del interior del territorio
provinciaL
iv) Entre Rios. Confirm6 su interes en financiar la Rehabilitaci6n de la Ruta de
acceso al Puerto de rbicuy desde la Ruta N 12.
v) Formosa. Esta provinia ha maiffestado su interes en participar en este proyecto.
vi) Misiones. Esta provincia ha manifestado su interes en participar en este
proyecto. A tal present6 un proyecto de ley de endeudamiento a la Legilatura
provincia que contempla la participaci6n en el PPI y el Proyecto de Emergencia. La
provincia solicit6 Ekanciad6n para sanear y sistematizar parte de los arroyos que
afectan a la ciudad de Posadas.
vii) Santa Fe. Esta provinQia ha confirmado, por escrito, su interes en participar en
este proyecto de emergencia debido a los importantes dafos econ6micos del orden
de los $ 300 mnillones que las imnsuales precipitaciones han causado en la zona
centro norte de la provincia durante los meses de diciembre, enero, febrero y
marzo ultimos, originando una demanda en rehabilitad6n de nraestructura vial
provincial del orden de los 33 millones de pesos. (Los caniinos no estAn incluidos
en el Proyecto de Caminos Provinciales del BIRF).
Las planillas resumen con el detalle de las obras a realizar han sido presentadas a
la misi6n y a la SUCCE.
32. Provincias del NOA
i) Catamarca. La Misi6n mantuvo una reuni6n en la SUCCE con representantes
provinciales quienes confirmaron su interes en participar de este Proyecto. La
provincia se encuentra preparando el listado de obras a incluir en el Provecto, el
que sera enviado a la SUCCE para el 3 de abril de 1998.
ii) Jujuy. La provincia no envi6 representante a la reuni6n convocada.
iii) La Rioja. La Misi6n visit6 la provincia, recorri6 varias zonas en donde existen
proyectos necesarios de ejecuci6n y mantuvo una reuni6n con el Gobernador quiwn
comprometi6 la participacion provincial en el Proyecto v se preocup6
personalmente de impulsar la pronta firma del Decreto aprobatorio del Convenio
de Prestamo. Ademas enviara en la semana el listado de obras a la SUCCE.
iv) Salta. La Misi6n visit6 la Provincia y recorri6 varias zonas en donde exdsten
proyectos necesarios de realizarse. Los funcionarios provinciales sefialaron que la
ley de endeudamiento solicitada es de un monto de S 10 millones. Esta provincia
present6 un primer listado de Subproyectos por un total de 5 4.539.000.- y
complementariamente remitira un segundo listado.
4          v) Santiago del Estero. La Misi6n mantuvo en la SUCCE una reuni6n con
representantes provinciales quienes confimaron su interes en partcipar de este
/k          Proyecto. Tambien indicaron que desean participar en el subprogama de viviendas
9



con el 50% de la asignaci6n total de la provincia pues esta tiene experiencia en
planes de viviendas por autoconstrucci6n v el otro 50% sera reasignado a obras de
rehabilitaa6n. El Banco analizara lo solicitado y en breve plazo dart su respuesta.
vi) Tucuwina. La Mlisi6n visit6 la provincia, recorri6 diversas areas donde se
localzan proyectos que pueden realizarse con este Prestamo y rantuvo una
reuni6n con el Gobemador quien ratific6, por escrito, el interes de la provincia en
participar en este Prestamo. La provincia participara con una ley de
endeudamiento del orden de los S 10 millones. La Misi6n entrego durante la visita
los documentos necesarios para que la Gobernaci6n inrcie los tnimites para la ley
de endeudamiento.
vii) Se adjuntan para todas las provincias del Proyecto, los listados preiminames
que han presentado a la SUCCE, solicitando financiamiento especifico en Anexo
VII.
33. Se acompahia el Anexo VII donde se incluye el estado de los tramites por Provinia
para acceder al fanciamiento del Programa.
34. Manual Operativo.
La SUCCE enviari al Banco el 3 de abril de 1998 un primer borrador del Manual
Operativo. Durante la Misi6n se discutieron los aspectos generales del Manual
Operativo espeaalmente criterios de redistnbuci6n de fondos entre Provincas,
criterios de elegibilidad t6cnica de los subproyectos, y criterios de contabilidad y
auditoria. Este primer borrador no contendra los dos liltimos aspectos cuyo analisis se
continuara para su incorporaci6n defiritiva al texto.
35. El modelo de Convenio de Prestamo Subsidiario fue remitido al Banco para su
consideracifn en los primeros dias de marzo de 1998.
36. A continuaci6n se resume las acciones claves acordadas en el texto del presente.
PLAN DE ACCION
iTEM                                   FECHA
El BIRF enviari su opini6a sobre los TOR para la recopilaci6n de  Lnmediata
informaci6n bisica para el estudio Regional de Riesgo del NOA
SUCCE comenzara el anilisis de las obras de la provincia de Buenos  Inmediata
Aires inmediatamente de recibir los estudios correspondientes. El
BIRF enviara su opini6n final para cada obra.
La SUPCE de Entre Rios realizara un estudio de factibilidad tecnica de Ininediata
la obra de acceso desde la Ruta 12 hasta el puerto de Ibicuy.
La provincia de la Rioja presentara su lista actualizada de obras a la   27-03-98
SUCCE.
La UTE de que esta construvendo Laguna Blanca terminati los items   3 1-03-98
pendientes.
La SUCCE enviari al BRF el Ier. Borrador del Manual Operativo del 03-04-98
Prestamo 4273-AR_
10



Firma de decreto aprobatorio del Prestamo 4273-AR.           03-04-98
Firma de la Enmienda al 4117-AR                              03-0498
La provincia de Catamarca enviara a la SUCCE la lista de obras.  03-04-98
La UTE de Laguna Blanca eaviari a la SUCCE los planos corregidos  15-04-98
de la obra y el manual de operaci6n y mantenimiento de la misma.
La UTE de Lag a Blanca pondri en cargala obra por un mes.     30-4-98
Las SUPCE's enviaran a la SUCCE las demandas para el Sistema de   30-04-98
Alerta Hidrolo6ico.
La SUCCE mandari al BIRF los TOR para el consultor amnbiental de   01-05-98
acuerdo al manual operativo.
Segunda reuni6n del Panel de Expertos de la obra de Laguna Blanca.  04-05-98
Envio al BIRF de la resoluci6n que unifique en un solo texto las  15-05-98
disposiciones de la Ley de Agua del Chaco y de la Ley de Protecci6n
Contra Inundaciones.
La SUCCE enviara al BIRF la informaci6n pendiente para completar  15-05-98
las tablas del Ifonne de Cierre del Pr6stamo 3521-AR.
Instalaci6n del sistema on line con las provincias para informar la  30-05-98
marcha de los subproyectos.
Acuerdo entre las provincias, el INA y el Ministerio del Interior por   30-098
escrito sobre la operaci6n y cl mantenimiento del Sistema de Alerta
Hidrol6gica.
La SUCCE enviara al BIF los TOR definitivos para el Estudio   15-07-98
Regional del NOA.                                            I
Preparaci6n por el consultor de un Plan Ambiental.            30-08-98
Finalizaci6n de la tarea del consultor parm el pliego llave en mano del  31-12-98
Sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico.
Se estima un desembolso del BEF del orden de USS 10 millones y la  31-12-98
construcci6n de 500 viviendas
Puesta en marcha del Sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico.          130-06-2000
Buenos Aires, Marzo 26 de 1998
AZ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.
Ing. A  enS.   pbell      .             Arqt. org A. Acosta
Banco 0ndial                        Jefe E   ti o SUCCE
Dr. Rodolfo E. Vacchiano
Secretario de Asistencia Financiera
a [as Provincias
Ministerio del Inerior
AC/JAA/JCL/mg/mima - c:\dm-us\doc27\aymeO39S.doc
tl



52
Appendix B
1998 - .4  de ldexs ifupnicipios
ltIXISTER10 DEL INTERIOR
Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias
Unidad Ejecutora Central
Programa de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones
Subunidad Central de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia
S.U.C.C.E.
NOTA & 4625  98
Buenos Aires, 1 6 NOV 1998
iOV 2 3 1998
Senior
Ing. Abel MEJIA
BANCO MUNDIAL
S        /      D                                       *#/gd aCmGR ESIwCl Ammhoe
Ref.: Prestamo 3521-AR - PREI - Informe
de Terminaci6n del Provecto (ICR).
De nuestra mayor consideraci6n:
En respuesta a vuestra Nota del 10 de noviembre
cumplimos en remitirle adjunto a la presente el "Informe de Evaluaci6n del PREI por el
Prestatario".
Sin otro particular saludamos a Ud. muy atentamente.
<    Ing.  ilip Sopher
SUCCE                            /                D0LF0EVACc>No
/~~~~It .RODOOUO E. VACCHIAO 
Rp/rp                                 y /                                     /
NotaSUCCEN 11.230/11 (13/10/98)
Leandro N. Alem 168 - 30 Piso (Romaguera) - (C.P. 1003) Buenos Aires - Argentina
T.E.: (54-1) 331-7051/342-60811343-0880 - Fax: (54-1) 342-6727



Informe de Evaluacion del PREI por el Prestatario
SUMARIO
I - INTRODUCCION
2 - OPERACI6N INICIAL
3 - EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
3.1 - Caracteristicas principales
3.2 - SUCCE y SUPCEs
3.3 - Subproyectos de emergencia elegibles
3.4 - Supervisi6n del Proyecto
3.5 - Subprograma de Viviendas
3.6 - Alerta Hidrol6gico
4 - ASPECTOS ECONOMICOS
5 - GESTION CONTABLE Y ADMINISTRACION
6 - FINANCIAMIENTO
6.1 - Fondos del Banco
6.2 - Fondos de Contrapartida Nadonal
6.3 - Fondos de Contrapartida Provincial
7 - AUDITORIA
8 - PREPARACION DEL P.P.I.
9-- DESEMPENO
9.1 - Del Banco
9.2 - Del Prestatario
1 0 - CONCLUSIONES
I - INTRODUCCION
Este Sumario ha sido preparado por la SUCCE a solicitud dei Banco Mundial, y
acompanla al Informe de Cierre del Prestamo 3521-AR (Programa de Rehabilitaci6n
por la Emergencia de las Inundaciones), preparado por el Banco. Contiene la
evaluaci6n del Prestatario sobre el Proyecto ejecutado y su operaci6n inicial, costos y
beneficios, el desempeno del Banco y del propio Prestatario, y las conclusiones a las
que se llega respecto de hasta d6nde se han alcanzado los objetivos que se
formularon.
Cabe destacar que este Sumario no incluye en detalle los aspectos relativos a la 2a.
Enmienda de Emergencia al Prestamo 3280-AR (iniciada a fines de 1997 y que se
cerrara el 31 de diciembre de 1998), pero si los correspondientes a la 1a. Enmienda
del mismo.
La implementaci6n de todo proyecto siempre genera enseiianzas que permiten, por un
lado, evaluar el diseno, preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del mismo y, por otro, extraer
conclusiones que seran aplicables a futuros proyectos de similares caracteristicas. Las
mismas son un elemento de analisis importante para los distintos 6rganos que tienen
intervenci6n en todas la etapas de un proyecto (el pals Prestatario, la unidad



ejecutora, otras areas de la Administraci6n, y el Banco u organismo prestador de
fondos).
2 - OPERACg6N INICIAL
Como consecuencia de las inundaciones ocurridas en la regi6n del Litoral argentino y
ocasionadas por las crecientes de los rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay en mayo-julio
de 1992, el Gobiemo Argentino solicit6 y obtuvo la ayuda del Banco Mundial mediante
el otorgamiento del Prestamo ya mencionado para llevar a cabo un Programa de
Emergencia para la rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura afectada por el fen6meno en
siete de las provincias argentinas. Sin embargo, dada la gravedad de la emergencia,
en tanto se tramitaba el Prestamo 3521-AR por 170 millones de d6lares, el Banco
dispuso reasignar con caracter de emergencia 20 millones de d6lares no utilizados
hasta esa fecha en el Pr6stamo 3280-AR, por ese entonces operativo. Los fondos
reasignados posibilitaron efectuar pagos como financiamiento retroactivo por trabajos
realizados durante la ocurrencia del fen6meno y permitieron ademas dar comienzo a
las prmeras obras de emergencia en tanto se tramitaba la efectividad del Prestamo
3521-AR.
La estrategia del Banco para diseuar y preparar el Prestamo fue --salvo en alguna
medida con respecto a su duraci6n- muy adecuada; y se hizo en tan s6lo dos meses,
plazo por demas reducido si se tiene en cuenta la complejidad de los problemas a
resolver. El Banco consider6 en el disenao -por tratarse de un Proyecto de
Emergencia- un tiempo de ejecuci6n de 3 anios (contados desde su aprobaci6n) que
se redujeron a s6lo 30 meses computando a partir de la efectividad del mismo. No
obstante, la realizaci6n del Programa y la experiencia adquirida durante su transcurso
demostraron que el plazo previsto por el Banco para la ejecuci6n -al momento de
Evaluaci6n del Proyecto- fue reducido ante la envergadura y la cantidad total de
Subproyectos, algunos de ellos de larga duraci6n.
Durante el diseno y preparaci6n del Programa se estimo la duraci6n media de cada
una de las obras en unos 3 meses; el resultado fue que se tard6 en promedio unos 9
meses. Como conclusi6n se tiene que para el tiempo de ejecuci6n de un Programa de
Emergencia de caracter multisectorial deben tenerse muy en cuenta varos factores: ia
envergadura de las obras, la ubicaci6n de las mismas y su accesibilidad, la distancia a
que se encuentran unas de otras, etc.
3 - EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
3.1 - Caracteristicas pnncipales
La caracteristica principal del Proyecto PREI y del Prestamo fue, desde el punto de
vista de la jurisdicci6n, su subsidiariedad. Pues el Prestamo fue traspasado a las
provincias intervinientes mediante la suscrpcion de Convenios de Prestamo
Subsidiarios, depositando asi en ellas la responsabilidad de contratar sus propias
obras, dandole caracter multijurisdiccional. Por otra parte, tuvo caracter multisectorial,
dado que con el Prestamo debieron rehabilitarse obras de infraestructura tanto de
transporte como de energia, rehabilitar o construir defensas contra inundaciones en
las poblaciones mas importantes, rehabilitar escuelas y hospitales e innumerables
obras de drenaje y saneamiento.
En el caso particular del PREI, por tratarse de un proyecto multi e interdisciplinario con
caracteristicas de Emergencia, el proceso de adquisici6n de experiencias fue
continuo, variado y acelerado.



55
La centralizaci6n normativa y la descentralizaci6n operativa como organizaci6n basica
establecida para la SUCCE y las SUPCEs, con caracteristicas de tipo matricial, como
unidades operativas independientes, ha permitido una mayor eficacia y eficiencia en la
ejecucion y el cumplimiento de los objetivos previstos en el Programa. El trabajo en
equipo y la celeridad en la realizaci6n de las tareas fueron los aspectos salientes de
este tipo de organizaci6n.
La autonomia operativa de la SUCCE y las SUPCEs permiti6 una rapida puesta en
marcha del Programa y la ejecuci6n de obras y desembolsos. Ha sido muy adecuado
que las SUPCEs hayan tenido dependencia organizativa de los Ministenos de
Economia de las provincias respectivas y dependencia funcional de la SUCCE.
La conformaci6n de una unidad pequenia y profesionalizada en las provincias (las
SUPCEs) que se ocupara especificamente de la implementaci6n del Proyecto, tuvo un
resultado positivo. De esta forma se evit6 la dispersi6n de la ejecuci6n de
subproyectos entre los organismos provinciales competentes en las distintas materias
del Programa, y se cont6 con un s6lo 6rgano con responsabilidad primara en la
ejecuci6n del Proyecto y con agilidad operativa para llevar a cabo los subproyectos
provinciales. Tambi6n es destacable, por el buen resultado obtenido, la colaboraci6n
que recibieron las SUPCEs por parte de los organismos provinciales.
La experencia adquirda por los profesionales integrantes de la SUCCE y las SUPCEs
en el manejo de los procedimientos de adquisici6n, contrataci6n y desembolsos del
BM, permiti6 transferr dicha experiencia a otras unidades nacionales y provinciales y
lograr una reducci6n de costos efectiva en la administraci6n y supervisi6n de
programas.
Tambien fue muy importante que se centralizara en las SUPCEs el proceso de
contrataci6n y supervisi6n de la ejecucion de las obras. Ello permiti6 contar con un
6inico organismo interocutor y responsable por provincia.
Entre las atrbuciones de la SUCCE se encontraba la aprobaci6n de los proyectos
ejecutivos de las obras que le remitian las SUPCEs. Para ello se solicitaron los
proyectos existentes en cada provincia, los que se complementaron con los estudios
necesaros para su ejecuci6n, realizados por los organismos competentes en caso de
que disponian de los recursos humanos para ello, o mediante la contrataci6n de
profesionales consultores, que actualizaron asi los proyectos y elaboraron los pliegos
para licitaci6n. Esas dos modalidades (mediante los organismos provinciales o equipos
tecnicos de las SUPCEs, en un caso, o bien con el auxilio de los servicios de
consultores -las mas de las veces individuales y en alguna ocasi6n de firmas--) se
emplearon en todas las provincias y para todos los sectores, a veces en forma
conjunta.
Una importante conclusi6n --cuando se consideran proyectos para obras de
emergencia de gran envergadura-- es la de poner especial atenci6n en los estudios
tecnicos preliminares de factibilidad (pueden ser insuficientes o, peor aun, no existir)
que justifiquen dichas obras, para no realizar inversiones de muy alto resgo.
3.2 - SUCCE y SUPCEs
El Convenio de Prestamo contempl6 la creaci6n de una unidad central para coordinar
la operaci6n del Prestamo con las Provincias. Como ya se encontraba operativo el
Prestamo 3280-AR --que preveia una Unidad Ejecutora Central y respectivas
Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales-- entonces se convino en que las nuevas a crear
para la Emergencia fueran Sub-unidades: asi nacieron la SUCCE y las SUPCEs.



56
La SUCCE se integr6 con un Jefe Ejecutivo y profesionales de la Ingenieria y la
Arquitectura de amplia experiencia en temas especificos tales como obras de defensa
contra inundaciones, de infraestructura de transporte y energia, hidraulicas y de
saneamiento, electromecanicas, de infraestructura escolar y de salud, diseno y
construcci6n por esfuerzo propio y ayuda mutua de viviendas de emergencia,
planificaci6n hidrica y formulaci6n y evaluaci6n de proyectos. Complementados
asimismo con un ingeniero especialista en procedimientos de adquisiciones y
profesionales expertos en gesti6n contable, administraci6n y desembolsos, y como
apoyo general un especialista en sistemas de informaci6n y comunicaciones y un
asesor legal. El personal de la SUCCE se mantuvo practicamente constante durante
los seis anios y medio de la ejecuci6n del PREI. Cabe destacar que la capacidad y la
dedicaci6n del Jefe Ejecutivo y del equipo profesional de la SUCCE han sido factores
fundamentales para el cumplimiento de los objetivos propuestos durante toda la
gesti6n del PREI.
La tarea de coordinar con las SUPCEs la marcha del Proyecto fue desarrollada por la
SUCCE en distintas formas segmn las necesidades: elaboraci6n de manuales de
procedimientos; frecuentes viajes a las provincias inicialmente para visitar y reconocer
los emplazamientos de los subproyectos a realizarse, luego para supervisar el estado
de ejecuci6n y avance de las obras o bien para analizar aspectos de la marcha del
Programa; emisi6n de circulares toda vez que fue necesario para disponer
procedimientos del Banco sobre diversos t6picos, fijar normas o modalidades a seguir
para uniformar criterios; realizar capacitaci6n a traves de seminarios y talleres para
intercambio de experiencias; etc. Cabe destacar al respecto que las citadas acciones,
en particular la supervisi6n e inspecci6n de obras "in situ" que fuera acertadamente
prevista al diseiarse el Prestamo, contribuyeron grandemente a la buena marcha del
Programa.
Contrariamente a lo sucedido en la SUCCE, las SUPCEs sufreron cambios, en
ocasiones significativos, en sus planteles. Prueba de ello es que en cuatro de las siete
provincias  ( Buenos Aires, Chaco, Coaientes y Entre Rios ) se produjeron
reemplazos
-por dos veces en cada una de ellas- de sus Jefes Ejecutivos. Dichos cambios
fueron atribuibles a razones politicas y/o institucionales propias de cada provincia en
diferentes momentos del desarrollo del Proyecto. A pesar de ello, en general el
desempehio de las SUPCEs fue satisfactorio. Naturalmente, no fue identico el
desempeno de todas ellas, ni comparandolas entre si ni para una misma SUPCE en
diferentes etapas. Las dificultades que fueron surgiendo se lograron superar en la
mayoria de los casos. Tal vez una de las mayores haya sido la vinculada con las
demoras producidas en las contrapartidas provinciales, en particular en las Provincias
de Formosa y Misiones, que provocaron en algun caso la paralizacion de obras por
parte de los contratistas.
Con relaci6n a la ejecuci6n de las obras, la presencia de la SUCCE, mediante visitas
frecuentes a las mismas, fue de capital importancia al permitir, a raiz de su contacto
con las SUPCES y los inspectores de obra, resolver en muchos casos problemas en
forma conjunta, consensuada e inmediata, agilizando el desarrollo de los trabajos.
Esto se logr6 gracias a las numerosas visitas realizadas a las provincias y a los
emplazamientos de las obras. Ninguna medida fue tomada en forma unilateral y
siempre fue acordada con las respectivas provincias. Ademas, la visita a obras de
otros Sectores, aparte de las propias, permitio a los Expertos extraer ensenanzas y
conclusiones que fueron utiles para las de su propio Sector, ya que en cada provincia
existieron problemas comunes a todos ellos.



57
Los Expertos de la SUCCE conformaron un equipo de trabajo interdisciplinario,
asistifndose entre si e intercambiando las experencias recogidas durante el desarrollo
de las obras. La conducci6n de la SUCCE favoreci6 y estimul6 ese trabajo en equipo,
potenciando la participaci6n de los especialistas de los distintos sectores que se
ocuparon, de tal suerte, de todos los aspectos del Programa mas alla de aquellos
estrictamente tecnicos.
Pese a que las Normas del BM establecian tan s6lo la revisi6n "ex-ante" por la SUCCE
de los dos primeros contratos de cada SUPCE y/o de cada Sector, la necesidad y la
experencia de dichas contrataciones por un lado y la responsabilidad por el otro, hizo
que el BM extendiera a todos los casos esa disposici6n. Teniendo en cuenta que la
normativa del BM respecto a adquisiciones difiere de la utilizada en las provincias, a
poco de iniciado el Programa se advirti6 la necesidad de reforzar la capacitacion en
procedimientos de contrataci6n y la supervisi6n en todas las etapas del desarrollo de
un subproyecto (acciones previas a su licitaci6n y contrataci6n, contrataci6n
propiamente dicha y ejecuci6n).
Entre las actividades de la SUCCE y las SUPCEs en el periodo de ejecuci6n
propiamente dicha se incluy6 tambien la programaci6n del mantenimiento y de la
transferencia de las obras a los organismos provinciales pertinentes, una vez que ellas
estaban terminadas. En este sentido, la SUCCE elabor6 Circulares fijando crteros y
pautas minimas a tener en cuenta con relaci6n al debido completamiento de los
subproyectos y a las normas para el mantenimiento de las obras ejecutadas.
3.3 - Subproyectos de emergencia elegibles
Los Subproyectos de emergencia elegibles constituyeron la parte Al del Prestamo y
fueron de tres tipos: contratos de obra, contratos de adquisici6n de bienes a ser
incorporados a obras, y contratos de servicios de consultoria vinculados a obra.
En lo que respecta a los contratos de obra, en las siete provincias se ejecutaron 291
obras por un monto de $ 195,82 millones, incluyendo adicionales a las mismas (que
resultaron ser del orden del 11 % de los valores de los contratos orginales). En cuanto
a la adquisici6n de bienes incorporados a obras, se realizaron 57 contrataciones
(bombas, grupos electr6genos, equipos auxiliares, etc.) en cinco provincias (no
participaron Buenos Aires y Misiones) por un monto total de $ 2,70 millones. Por fin, en
el area correspondiente a la asistencia tecnica vinculadas a obra, en las siete
provincias se realizaron en total 94 contrataciones de servicios de consultoria ylo
asistencia tecnica, en disenio, revisi6n de disenio o inspecci6n de las mismas, por un
monto total de $ 3,67 millones.
La distribuci6n porcentual por sectores del total de obras, adquisiciones y consultorias
fue la que sigue: Defensas contra inundaciones 40,90 %; lnfraestructura de transporte
y energia 33,32 %; Infraestructura en educaci6n 9,37 %; lnfraestructura en salud 3,79
%; e lnfraestructura en saneamiento 12,62 %. Los dos primeros sectores mencionados
totalizan el 74,22 % de la inversi6n total de la parte Al del Proyecto. Si se comparan
los porcentajes aqui mencionados con aquellos que se previeron en el Staff Appraisal
Report N P-5852, se comprueba que para los sectores de Defensas, Transporte y
Energia e lnfraestructura de Salud, se mantuvieron dentro del mismo orden de
magnitud. El sector Educaci6n creci6 algo con respecto a lo previsto a expensas del
sector Saneamiento
En tanto, la distribuci6n porcentual por provincias fue: Buenos Aires 4,41 %; Chaco
15,04 %; Corrientes 9,55 %; Entre Rios 12,78 %; Formosa 25,49 %; Misiones 5,03 %;
y Santa Fe 27,70 %. Las provincias de Formosa, Chaco y Santa Fe concentran los



58
mayores porcentajes de participaci6n en el sector Defensas, en tanto que Misiones no
ejecut6 obras en dicho sector. Por su parte, las provincias de Formosa, Chaco, Santa
Fe y Misiones concentran los mayores porcentajes en el sector Transporte y Energia.
De los restantes, cabe mencionar la importante participaci6n de Corientes en los
sectores de Educaci6n y Saneamiento.
Es importante senalar que a fines de 1995 el Proyecto habia alcanzado un 90 % de
avance de la inversi6n fisica, el cual lleg6 at 95 % a mediados de 1996. Teniendo en
cuenta que la crisis financiera mexicana (efecto tequila) tuvo lugar a fines de 1994,
marcando su punto mas critico en la Argentina en marzo de 1995, la misma se produjo
cuando el Proyecto presentaba un avance importante.
Las obras con las que se inici6 el Programa fueron aquellas que contaban con los
proyectos ejecutivos ya definidos. La dispersi6n geografica de algunas obras de
ciertos sectores dificult6 su construcci6n e increment6 los costos de inspecci6n. En los
prmeros llamados a concurso en algunas de las provincias se detectaron precios
sensiblemente superiores a los estimados oficialmente y, despues de un analisis
exhaustivo, la SUCCE aconsej6 a las SUPCEs anular los procesos y efectuar un
llamado posterior (previo perfeccionamiento de los pliegos), en el cual se obtuvieron
propuestas ajustadas a los pliegos y con precios sustancialmente menores.
3.4 - Supervisi6n del Proyecto
La supervisi6n del Proyecto fue prevista con un concepto integral por parte del Banco.
La mas directa fue la que realizaron las SUPCEs a traves de sus expertos en las obras
contratadas, en las compras de bienes y en los servicios de consultoria. Le sigui6 el
nivel de supervisi6n indirecta que realiz6 la SUCCE trabajando en coordinaci6n con las
SUPCEs, ya sea en reuniones y/o visitas de Expertos a las provincias, ya sea
mediante comunicaciones escritas yvo telef6nicas.
El Banco introdujo en este Prestamo -acertadamente-  una supervisi6n de tipo
general realizada por un profesional ingeniero de amplia experiencia, residente en el
pais, con la responsabilidad de hacer informes bimestrales con una evaluacion
independiente acerca de la marcha del Prestamo, informes que debian ser entregados
directamente al Secretano de Estado del Ministerio del Interior y al Banco.
Por iultimo, fue muy positiva la supervisi6n realizada por el propio Banco a traves del
Task Manager del Proyecto mediante la comunicaci6n permanente entre Washington y
Buenos Aires y la realizaci6n de numerosas y frecuentes Misiones de aquel a la
Argentina, visitando la SUCCE, las SUPCEs y numerosas obras de distinto tipo en las
mas variadas localizaciones en las provincias. Se considera que esta modalidad fue
fundamental para el exito del Proyecto, dadas las complejas caracteristicas del mismo.
Todas estas acciones se complementaron con la Auditoria Extema que, por tratarse
de un proyecto de emergencia, se previ6 realizara un Informe cada seis meses.
3.5 - Subprograma de Viviendas
A traves de este Subprograma se ejecutaron 5.818 viviendas en las seis provincias del
PREI que se adhirieron al mismo (no particip6 Entre Rios). Se construyeron viviendas
en unas 30 divisiones politicas (departamentos o partidos) a lo largo de 44 localidades
o poblaciones, repartidas en un total de 110 conjuntos o asentamientos.
Cada provincia present6 a la SUCCE los prototipos a corystruir enmarcados dentro de
algunos parametros basicos. Los mismos, acordes a los recursos fisicos y econ6micos
de cada localidad, se adaptaron a la diversidad cultural e idiosincracia de los



59
participantes. Los materiales y tecnicas constructivas utilizados fueron la construcci6n
convencional con materiales tradicionales y el armado de elementos prefabrcados en
madera. El mayor porcentaje de viviendas, un 65 %, fue hecho por construcci6n
tradicional.
El metodo consisti6 en la autoconstrucci6n, es decir por medio del esfuerzo propio de
los mismos interesados (damnificados por la inundaci6n) y la ayuda mutua (de
personas en igual situaci6n, vecinos y familiares), los cuales no recibieran ninguna
remuneraci6n por su trabajo. En cuanto a los materiales, ellos fueron provistos en un
100 % por el Proyecto y se adquirieron a traves le las SUPCEs, convocando a los
proveedores a concursar por precio, permitiendo luego a todos los postulantes igualar
el menor precio ofertado. Y fueron entregados a los beneficarios solamente en funci6n
del grado de avance de las etapas de obra.
Los destinataros de las viviendas debieron, mediante declaraci6n jurada, justificar su
condici6n de damnificados por ia inundaci6n, y esta tarea cont6 con la ayuda de
Asistentes Sociales pertenecientes por lo general a las plantas del personal de los
Institutos Provinciales de Vivienda ylo los Municipios.
Ha sido muy positivo el fuerte accionar de la SUCCE y de las mismas SUPCEs (visitas
reiteradas a las localidades y participaci6n de asistentes sociales) para el buen
resultado obtenido en el Subprograma. Marcados beneficios sociales se lograron con
el mismo: las familias carecientes pudieron participar en la construcci6n de sus propias
viviendas; se promovio y revaloiz6 la solidaridad comunitara y el espiritu de trabajo
corporativo; se realiz6 una capacitaci6n efectiva en el oficio de la construcci6n; se dio
un ejemplo para nin'os y j6venes y para la sociedad toda de c6mo puede levantarse
una vivienda con las propias manos y mejorar el habitat en el que se vive; se
mejoraron las condiciones sanitarias de las familias; se redujo el costo de las casas;
etc.
3.6 - Alerta Hidrol6gico
El Convenio de Pr6stamo preveia asignar fondos para mejorar la capacidad del por
entonces llamado Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hidrcas (INCYTH), a fin de
monitorear tendencias hidrol6gicas, llevar a cabo pronosticos de inundaciones y
proporcionar alertas a las inundaciones. Esto implicaba la adquisici6n de equipo y
contrataci6n de consultoria, para lo cual la SUCCE y el Ministerio del Interor firmaron
con el INCYTH un Convenio de Asistencia Tecnica y Cooperaci6n.
En los dos primeros anios de operaci6n del Pr6stamo se llev6 a cabo casi el total de
dichas contrataciones. Se adquireron para el INCYTH un Server (computadora Sun
Spark completa) y ocho estaciones de trabajo (computadoras Acer, monitor, m6dem,
scanner, impresora laser, impresora a chorro de tinta) y cuatro impresoras de matrz
de punto. Y para cada una de las siete provincias una estaci6n de trabajo consistente
en una computadora Acer, monitor, m6dem, tadeta de red y una impresora de matrz
de punto.
Tambi6n se adquiri6 el software de comunicaci6n, el de programaci6n, la planilla de
calculo y la base de datos Oracle. Se contrat6 una consultora que realiz6 la migraci6n
de datos del INCYTH -que habia pasado a llamarse Instituto Nacional del Agua y el
Ambiente (INA), tras una reestructuraci6n ministerial- a la nueva base de datos y
ademas efectu6 el desarrollo del modelo de base de datos para el Servicio de Alerta
Hidrol6gico.



60
Conjuntamente con la adquisici6n del hardware y el software se contrat6 como servicio
incluido en la venta la capacitaci6n para ocho personas con un curso de 30 horas del
Sistema Operativo Unix y, ademas, cinco cursos de capacitaci6n en base de datos
Oracle, a un promedio de 25 horas para 3 personas por curso. Completando estas
adquisiciones, se contrat6 un consultor intemacional que realiz6 un Estudio del
Sistema de Alerta y Pron6stico Hidrol6gico de los rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay.
La SUCCE realiz6 un permanente seguimiento y asistencia, antes, durante y despu6s
de la ejecuci6n de los trabajos realizados en el INA; y ello contribuy6 al cumplimiento
de las metas establecidas en el Convenio.
4 - ASPECTOS ECONOMICOS
El Proyecto presupuestado en u$s 270 millones (sin impuestos) cost6 efectivamente
alrededor de u$s 260 millones, o sea un 3,7 % menos. Este costo comprendi6 un 91,6
% de inversi6n fisica (obras, bienes, asistencia tecnica directa a obras, viviendas y
financiamiento retroactivo de bienes y obras). Por razones practicas se incluye la
asistencia directa a obras como inversi6n fisica.
En cuanto al 8,4 % restante, esta integrado por 2,14 % para la SUCCE; 3,85 % para
las SUPCEs; 0,17 % para el INA (ex - INCYTH); 0,65 % para la auditoria extema;
1,46 % para consultorias de preparaci6n del PPI; y 0,13 % para varios.
Con relaci6n a los beneficios, cabe indicar que por tratarse de un proyecto de
emergencia no hubo una evaluaci6n econ6mica del mismo. Puede decirse que dichos
beneficios son, al menos, de dos tipos: los mensurables y los no mensurables.
Los no mensurables o intangibles constituyen una amplia gama de efectos directos e
indirectos en todas las areas y centros poblados en donde se rehabilitaron obras
danladas o se ejecutaron nuevas. Los efectos directos fueron la existencia de obras
rehabilitadas o nuevas que, incluso durante estos ultimos ahos, tuvieron la oportunidad
de ser probadas habiendo contribuido a proteger personas y bienes antes no
protegidos o deficientemente protegidos. Tambien puede computarse como beneficio
intangible que las comunidades involucradas han evolucionado, tomando mayor
conciencia sobre el cuidado que merecen las obras de protecci6n.
En cuanto a los beneficios mensurables, at promediar el anio 1996 por recomendacion
del Banco se encar6 un estudio de consultoria con el objeto de evaluar o medir los
beneficios producidos o a producir por las obras ejecutadas durante el Proyecto PREI
en funci6n del dano que se evit6 en las circunstancias en que nuevas crecidas en los
rios volvieron a poner en estado de alerta a las poblaciones rberenas.
En tal sentido cabe indicar que el estudio de "Estimaci6n de Beneficios producidos por
las obras ejecutadas por el PRErt, finalizado en abril de 1997, evalu6 el beneficio en
funci6n del dano medio anual evitado. Tambi6n se analiz6 el beneficio econ6mico en
circunstancia de una crecida ocurrida en 1997. La evaluaci6n del comportamiento de
las obras ejecutadas con financiamiento del Banco a trav6s del PREI denotaron que
en ia crecida del rio Parana ocurida en febrero de 1997, generaron un beneficio
directo computado como danio evitado de u$s 388 millones.
5- GESTION CONTABLE Y ADMINISTRACION
La gesti6n contable y la administraci6n del Proyecto se desarrollaron con normalidad
durante la ejecuci6n del Prestamo. El sistema contable result6 apropiado a las
necesidades basicas de registro. De la experiencia adquirda se estima conveniente



61
mejorar los registros de las cuentas de deudas para permitir mejor control ante la
eventualidad de demoras en la integraci6n de la contrapartida provincia!.
La apertura de las cuentas especiales en el pais, propuesta por la SUCCE, permiti6
reducir apreciablemente el tiempo necesario para concretar los desembolsos,
posibilitando que los contratistas y proveedores cobraran sus facturas en tiempo y
forma.
6 - FINANCIAMIENTO
6.1 - Fondos del Banco
Del Banco se recibieron $ 19.932.340 provenientes de la 1a Enmienda de Emergencia
del Prestamo 3280-AR y $ 167.337.225 provenientes del Prestamo 3521-AR, lo que
totaliz6 la suma de $ 187.269.565.
Al promediar el bimestre mayo-junio de 1996 se habia desembolsado el 90 % del
financiamiento total ( $ 190 millones ), y para Ilegar al 98,56 % final de desembolsos se
insumi6 un ano y medio mis, debido por una parte a las consecuencias de la crisis
financiera mexicana y, por otra, a los problemas que hubo que solucionar en dos de
los subproyectos: las obras de rehabilitaci6n de la Av. Siete Jefes en la ciudad de
Santa Fe que terminaron en mayo de 1997, y la Obra de Control de la Derivaci6n del
rio Negro al rio Salado en Laguna Blanca (Chaco), cuyos trabajos finalizaron en marzo
de 1998 aun cuando la SUPCE extendi6 la recepci6n provisora en mayo de 1998.
6.2 - Fondos de Contrapartida Nacional
Los fondos de contrapartida nacional fueron pagados normalmente a las provincias
desde el inicio del Proyecto y hasta que se hizo sentir en la Argentina el efecto de la
crisis financiera mexicana en marzo de 1995. Los atrasos mayores se verficaron en
1996 y, pasado el primer semestre de 1997, la situaci6n se regulariz6 en su totalidad.
6.3 - Fondos de Contrapartida Provincial
Las provincias pagaron normalmente sus fondos de contrapartida desde el inicio del
Proyecto y hasta los primeros meses de 1995. Por las mismas razones indicadas en el
parrafo anterior para los fondos nacionales, en fechas similares comenzaron a
demorarse los pagos y a acumularse los montos adeudados en cinco provincias (salvo
en Buenos Aires y en Santa Fe). De ellas, tres pusieron al dia sus pagos en fechas
similares al caso de la Naci6n, pero con dos ello no ocurri6, y al finalizar el Proyecto
(31 de marzo de 1998) las deudas por contrapartidas eran de $ 2,8 millones en
Formosa y de $ 0,25 millones en Misiones. A la fecha de este informe estos montos se
han reducido a la mitad.
7 - AUDITORIA
La Auditoria Extema del Programa fue realizada por la consultora Deloitte & Touche
contratada desde 1992. La firma auditora --que ya venia efectuando la auditoria del
Pr6stamo 3280-AR en el ambito de la Unidad Ejecutora Central (UEC)-prepar6
durante el desarrollo del Proyecto informes semestrales. Los informes del Auditor
comprendieron: el dictamen sobre los estados contables, los informes especiales de
legalidad, los informes sobre certificados de gastos (SOES) y sobre el estado de
transacciones de fondos de la cuenta especial. Camo informaci6n financiera
complementaria se auditaba el balance en d6lares, el estado de origen y aplicacit6n de



62
fondos, las inversiones del Programa, y un memorandum para la Direcci6n con las
observaciones al control intemo.
La Auditoria Extema cumpli6 con los plazos requeridos para la emisi6n de los Informes
semestrales, y su actuaci6n puede considerarse satisfactoria, habiendo mantenido
regularmente reuniones con el Prestatario para la programaci6n de las tareas y
habiendo realizado una adecuada coordinaci6n con el area administrativo - contable
de la SUCCE para desarrollar sus tareas, de acuerdo a los requermientos
contractuales.
Las observaciones sefialadas en los memorandum para la Direcci6n no fueron
significativas y resultaron muy uMtles para realizar correcciones en la marcha del
Programa.
8 - PREPARACION DEL P.P.I.
Los lineamientos basicos del PREI y el mismo Convenio de Prestamo establecian la
necesidad de que una vez cumplida la tarea de rehabilitar lo daniado por la
emergencia, se adoptaran medidas para que en el futuro se llevara adelante un
Programa o Proyecto de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones que abarcase medidas
estructurales (obras) y no estructurales ( medidas de prevenci6n y de regulaci6n).
El Prestamo PREI prevefa que mediante un concurso de consultoria se preparasen
terminos de referenda para un ulterior estudia integral del problema de las
inundaciones en toda la regi6n del litoral. Por iniciativa de la SUCCE y con el firme
apoyo del Banco, la SUCCE prepar6 los Terminos de Referencia y se llam6 a
concurso intemactonal de consultoria para el Estudio del Valle Aluvial, que permiti6 dar
el marco conceptual para los posterores estudios de detalle.
Esta iniciativa permiti6 ganar un tiempo muy valioso. A principios de 1995 el 'Estudio
de Regulaci6n del Valle Aluvial de los rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay", realizado por
la firma consultora Halcrow & Partners Ltd., estaba practicamente concluido. Como
ademas la labor fue monitoreada por la SUCCE y las SUPCEs a medida que se
avanzaba en la misma, no bien se termin6 pudieron comenzarse los estudios
preliminares de detalle en toda la regi6n (planes directores, planes de protecci6n
hidrica, estudios econ6micos, ambientales, etc.) que fueron los que permitieron
diseniar en detalle el futuro Proyecto, hoy concretado en el Prestamo 4117-AR. Para
esta labor se cont6 tambien con un financiamiento no reembolsable del Gobiemo de
Jap6n del orden de los 600.000 dolares. Estas tareas se completaron con un Estudio
Ambiental de caracter regional, pues el Banco deterrnin6 que la clasificaci6n ambiental
del futuro proyecto era "Categoria A" (Proyecto que podria tener diversos impactos
ambientales importantes).
9 - DESEMPENO
9.1 - Del Banco
El Prestatario recibi6 por parte del Banco un apoyo continuado y sostenido. En el
aspecto financiero todo el proceso de desembolsos y transferencia de fondos se
desarroll6 con regulardad y sin demoras, generando un clima de confianza en los
contratistas. En el aspecto operativo cabe sernalar la importante labor desarrollada por
las oficinas del Banco encargadas de la Supervisi6n del Proyecto y, muy
especialmente, por el Task Manager que se desempeh6 desde el inicio del Prestamo,
el cual realiz6 frecuentes Misiones de supervisi6n y en todas ellas transmiti6 el
compromiso del Banco de llevar a buen tetmino el Proyecto. Estas Misiones se



63
caracterzaron por el contacto directo que el mismo mantuvo no s6lo con la SUCCE
sino tambi6n con las SUPCEs, a veces mediante reuniones en Buenos Aires y en
muchas mas con viajes y visitas a las sedes de las SUPCEs y al emplazarmiento de las
obras.
9.2 - Del Prestatario
El Prestatano -- a trav6s de las distintas areas del Gobiemo Nacional (Ministeros del
Interior y de Economia, Jefatura de Gabinete desde 1995, etc.) y muy especialmente a
traves de la UEC y de la SUCCE-dieron respuesta a todas las inquietudes que el
Banco hizo conocer durante el tiempo de ejecuci6n del Prestamo. Siempre existio un
dialogo abierto que permiti6 solucionar los distintos temas que se fueron presentando
desde el inicio. Y puede afirmarse que hubo igual disposici6n en las autoridades de las
provincias involucradas, desde los Gobemadores hasta todos los equipos de trabajo
de las SUPCEs.
10 - CONCLUSIONES
La conclusi6n es que los objetivos fijados en el Prestamo 3521-AR fueron alcanzados
en su totalidad. Los fondos que no tenian destino fijado ("unallocated") al otorgarse el
Pr6stamo fueron todos asigandos a los distintos subproyectos de emergencia elegibles
que fueron identificados y evaluados en el "mid term review" de marzo de 1993 y las
Misiones subsiguientes de ese ano. En el Subprograma de viviendas se ejecutaron
todas las unidades de vivienda previstas en un total de 6 de las 7 provincias
habiemdose comenzado este subprograma s6lo en 5 provincias.
El Sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico del INA (el entonces INCYTH) fue equipado con
hardware y software, lo mismo que las siete oficinas asignadas a contactarse con el
INA en las provincias del Proyecto. Esta asistencia se complement6 con asistencia
t;cnica, entrenamiento, e instalaci6n de mejores sistemas de comunicaci6n.
Por ultimo el Prestamo 3521-AR posibilit6 una preparaci6n cuidada y detallada del
nuevo Proyecto de Protecci6n contra Inundaciones (PPI) - Prestamo 4117-AR..
Este Proyecto puede ser calificado como satisfactorio, pese a haberse demorado en
su concreci6n. Todos los objetivos fijados fueron cumplidos, tanto para los
Subproyectos de Emergencia Elegibles (consistente especialmente en ejecuci6n de
obras, pero tambien en compras de bienes y servicios de consultoria o asistencia
t6cnica vinculados a obras), cuanto para el Subprograma de Viviendas para los
inundados realizado por el sistema de esfuerzo propio y ayuda mutua.
Fue positivo el que se contemplara realizar medidas no estructurales en forma paralela
con la rehabilitaci6n de las obras de infraestructura daniada, lo cual demuestra que el
Banco previ6 no solamente la Emergencia, sino que tambien tuvo una visi6n de los
problemas a mediano y largo plazo.
Ademas, para las provincias participantes, gener6 beneficios adicionales tales como la
formaci6n de unidades especializadas en este tipo de proyectos; con experiencia en
los procedimientos de adquisici6n del Banco y la ejecuci6n de proyectos en tiempos
menores a los empleados habitualmente en las mismas.
Asimismo, la experiencia adquirda durante la implementaci6n de este Proyecto, les
permitio a las provincias atender en mejores condiciones- la situacion de emergencia
que se produjo durante los primeros meses del anio 1998 por una nueva crecida de los
rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay.



64
En tal sentido, las SUPCEs contrataron nuevas obras y adquirieron equipamiento por
aproximadamente u$s 17 millones, provenientes de una 2a. Enmienda del Pr6stamo
3280-AR, siguiendo los procedimientos y modalidades de ejecuci6n del PREI.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27719
64A/                                             60_
BOLIVIA   i                                                                A R G E N T I N A
-. I                              LOCALIZATION OF SUB-PROJECTS
5 SUB-PROJECTS           f          NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGIONAL SUB-PROJECTS:            RIVERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
P                                 -E SREGION BOUNDARIES
PUENTES MISIONES           ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'    I       .         j               ^X_                     @)  SITEMA HIDRICO FORMOSA
-240 ;   S A  L T A                                                            0 S  ---s  oo100        200          300 KILOMETERS        2Ao
N  O  R T H - ,                          'o           o                   50N*(
j1 s   @   e CLORINDA*\\,
5-                ~~~~~PUERTO IGUAZU
.rWANDA)    z
~'  w  E ST                     |      c  H  A  C  O       '~-h    FORMOSAvo           PARAGUAY                         ESPERANZA\
N
-v',,5                                                Is.'f\c: 8          ,)   N
S&  A   S T  E A  G  O 0                                 NCCIA     ICORRIENTES CAPITAL                      *
D  E L                            0      R           H      -    E     A      S     T     ANJAVIER..;, 
-28     E S T . E R O            X     VNEA PARANA                  -f                                                                    28
VBELLA  ISTA
/  C 0  R RI E N T E S                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and
C              a R R I E N T E S    ony other information shown on
MERCEDES                        this map do not imply, an the part of
I    S A  N  T A            GOYA                                           The World Bank Graup, any judgment
I                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n the legal status of any territory, or
. A                          N                                                      T         A j' GOYA * , ony endorsement or acceptance of
~-~~~~   CUENCA A.t "FE       CURUZU-CUATIA*                      516'        such boundories.
LAS CONCHAS               \*ESQUINA -j                                        )  BOLIVIA Jf      i
S   ANTONI                I                                                               ' PARAOiA2'\
laguna Mar                                     LA PAZ                                               -          N .
/CULCULU   /SANTA ELENA,      FEDERACIONJ'                                                            >
UL          ~~~/ *
SU(SISB A L        CONCORDIA-30
CUECAA.  LEY  SEI SALARETN                                                                       / -
P  A  COLASTINE  |    ArANA E N  T R E          /ARGENTINA
32A              M                 E    (A           N        A                         33t                       Bun,  . .,tURUOUAY
-32                          t\  CUENCA A   rDIAMANTE   R  I 0  S                                     u C                    Aires
\ UENCARRIZA. I                        _'     N                         :Area of map
C00   D   B ACORA                                  CONCEPCION
j CAORRIDB AL 0TORIA       DEL URUGUAY
UENjA A. N \          GUALEGUAYCHU                   C           -
ARCAR       ~GUALEGUAY* 
SLDILL                                            > I
ED                     VILA PARANACITO< S<
BARADERO          -1SLASDELDELTA                             I                 OCE AN
j   s/  __   /      CAMFAIGRE50 0ZARA TEDELDELTx
- - - -   - - -             ECAP      SN FERNANDO                                  J                      0
**CAPITAL FEDERAL                                        2
B U E N O S  A I R E S      BUENOS AIRI  -METROPOLITAN
6,A                                        610'
MARCH 1996



