Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3521 AR
Loan Agreement
(Flood Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 7, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3521 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 1993, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower and the Bank have amended, by letter dated August 14, 1992, 
the Loan Agreement for Loan 3280-AR (Provincial Development Project), dated February 
15, 1991 (such Loan Agreement, as amended, hereinafter called the Prior Loan 
Agreement), for the purposes of financing the Project with funds, in an amount 
equivalent to $20,000,000, from the loan provided for under the Prior Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)   "Eligible Emergency Subproject" means an Emergency Subproject which meets 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the Manual and has been approved by the Bank for 
financing under Part A.1 of the Project;
(b)   "Emergency Subproject" means a specific project to rehabilitate or 
reconstruct infrastructure facilities affected by the floods which occurred in the 
Provinces in May, June and July of 1992, consisting of investments in the areas of 
transport, energy, emergency flood control, education, health, water supply, drainage, 
or other affected areas that may be approved by the Bank, and including technical 
assistance;
(c)   "Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement, between the Borrower and 
the Financial Intermediary, referred to in Section 1.02 (e) of the Prior Loan 
Agreement;
(d)   "Financial Intermediary" means the financial institution referred to in 
Section 1.02 (e) of the Prior Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Housing Subproject" means a specific investment project for 
reconstruction of a house damaged by the floods which  occurred in the Provinces in 
May, June and July of 1992, or for the construction of a new house to replace a house 
destroyed by such floods, which is eligible for financing under Part A.2 of the 
Project pursuant to the provisions of the Manual;
(f)   "Housing Grant" means any of the grants to be made by any Province to 
finance goods under a Housing Subproject, pursuant to the provisions of the Manual, 
such Housing Grant not to exceed 85% of the cost of the respective Housing Subproject;
(g)   "INCYTH" means Instituto Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica Hidrica, the 
Borrower's National Institute of Hydrological Sciences and Technology;
(h)   "Manual" means the operating manual setting forth lending policies, 
eligibility criteria, organizational structure and procedures in respect of Eligible 
Emergency Subprojects and Housing Subprojects;
(i)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)   "Project Consultant" means the consultant referred to in Section 3.08 of 
the Prior Loan Agreement;
(k)   "Province" means any of the Borrower's Provinces of Buenos Aires, Chaco, 
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones and Santa Fe;
(l)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(m)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)   "SUCCE" means the sub-unit of the Central Executing Unit referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of the Prior Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(o)   "SUPCE" means the unit of the Provincial Executing Unit referred to in 
paragraph I (10) of Schedule 5 to the Prior Loan Agreement; and
(p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and seventy million 
dollars ($170,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Financial Intermediary on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for purposes of the opening and operation of the 
Special Account and the disbursement and collection of the proceeds of the Subsidiary 
Loans, amend, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the Financial 
Agency Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financial 
Agency Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of further amending, or 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Financial Agency Agreement or any provisions 
thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
           (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
Page  4
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Part B.1 (a), 2 and 3 of the Project, through SUCCE, and, under the 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements, cause the Provinces to carry out Parts A and 
B.1 (b) of the Project, all with due diligence and  efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, management, engineering and environmental 
practices and in accordance with the provisions of the Manual; and (ii) provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into agreements with each Province (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, providing for the 
relending of the proceeds of the Loan to the Provinces in the amounts required for the 
carrying out by the Provinces of the respective components of Parts A and B.1 (b) of 
the Project under their responsibility.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or any provisions thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take all measures on its part necessary to cause the 
Project to be carried out in accordance with the Project implementation schedule set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project: (a) 
maintain, as provided in the Prior Loan Agreement, the SUCCE, for purposes of 
coordinating the carrying out of the Project; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, staff and other resources required by the SUCCE to carry out its 
Page  5
functions and responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner; and (c) continue to 
employ the Project Consultant, as provided in the Prior Loan Agreement, for purposes 
of assisting the Borrower in the supervision of, and furnishing to the Borrower and 
the Bank periodic reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall request 
on, the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than January 31, May 31 and 
September 30 of each year during the execution of the Project, prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a report on the progress of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request; and (b) in the month of October of 1993, review 
with the Bank the progress of the Project and the attainment of the objectives of the 
Project.
Section 3.05. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
abrogate, amend, or fail to apply the Manual or any provisions thereof.
Section 3.06. When presenting an Emergency Subproject to the Bank for approval, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the 
Bank, containing an appraisal of the Emergency Subproject as provided in the Manual, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and such other information concerning such Subproject as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for comments: (a) not later 
than eighteen months from the date of this Agreement, the studies under Part B.2 (a) 
of the Project; and (b) not later than six months from the date of this Agreement, the 
terms of reference under Part B.2 (b) of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1993, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, for approval, a list containing the Emergency Subprojects to be 
financed under the Project, duly appraised, to the satisfaction of the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each 
semester of each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than three months after the end of each such semester, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the semester of the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
Page  6
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the 
corresponding period of time, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if any of the 
events specified in the following paragraphs (a) or (b) shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of the Project 
expenditures related to the Province or Provinces affected:
(a)   Any of the Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Province will be able to perform its obligations under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
(c)   The Financial Intermediary shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Financial Agency Agreement, as amended pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with at least 
three Provinces;
(b)   all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by the Borrower and 
the Provinces referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in order to exempt all 
contracts for goods, works and consultants' services to be financed under the Loan 
from all legal and regulatory provisions of the Borrower and such Provinces which 
limit the international procurement of such goods, works and consultants' services;
(c)   the Financial Agency Agreement has been amended as provided in Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(d)   the Manual has been issued to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and the Provinces referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement, respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and such Provinces, 
respectively, in accordance with their terms;
(b)   that the exemption referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Page  7
Agreement has been duly granted and no other action on behalf of the Borrower or the 
Provinces referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement is required 
to enable the Borrower and such Provinces to undertake the procurement of goods, works 
and consultants' services in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and
(c)   that the Manual has been duly issued.
Section 6.03. The date April 7, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Telex:
(390) 21-952
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Guillermo Zoccali
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works under              108,300,000        85% of expendi-
    Eligible                                    tures made on or
    Emergency                                   before December
    Subprojects                                 31, 1992, up to
                                                an aggregate
                                                amount not to
                                                exceed the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $ 20,000,000, and
                                                68% thereafter
(2) Goods under               11,300,000        100% of foreign
    Eligible                                    expenditures; and
    Emergency                                   85% of local
    Subprojects                                 expenditures made
                                                on or before
                                                December 31, 1992,
                                                up to an aggregate
                                                amount not to
                                                exceed the equiva-
                                                lent of
                                                $4,700,000, and
                                                51% thereafter
(3) Consultants'              10,800,000        100%
    services under
    Eligible
    Emergency
    Subprojects
    and consultants'
    services, goods
    and training
    under Part B of
    the Project
(4) Housing Subprojects       16,900,000        85% of the amounts
                                                disbursed under
                                                the respective
                                                Housing Grant on
                                                or before December
                                                31, 1992, up to an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                not to exceed the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $10,000,000, and
                                                56% thereafter
(5) Unallocated               22,700,000
       TOTAL                  170,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
Page  9
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $34,000,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 16, 1992;
(b)   expenditures by any of the Provinces, except those referred to in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement, until the Bank shall have received a duly certified copy 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower and such Province, 
together with: (i) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that all action has been taken 
by such Province to exempt all contracts for goods, works and consultants' services to 
be financed under the respective Subsidiary Loan from all such Province's legal and 
regulatory provisions limiting the international procurement of such goods, works and 
consultants' services; and (ii) an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of 
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing, on behalf of the Borrower and the Province: 
(A) that the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Province and the Borrower, and is 
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and (B) that 
the exemption referred to in subparagraph (i) above has been duly granted and no other 
action on behalf of the Borrower and the Province is required to enable such Province 
to undertake the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement;
(c)   expenditures under any Eligible Emergency Subproject, unless the Bank 
shall have approved such Subproject; and
(d)   expenditures in a Province after June 30 in a given calendar year 
(excluding expenditures for Eligible Emergency Subprojects already approved by the 
Bank), unless the Bank shall have received a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to remedy any irregularities or deficiencies noted by any required audit report.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reconstruct and/or rehabilitate 
infrastructure facilities in the Provinces affected by the floods which occurred in 
May, June and July of 1992, and to provide a sound institutional framework for the 
coordination and implementation of the Borrower's overall program to rehabilitate the 
infrastructure damaged by such floods.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
1.
Execution of Eligible Emergency Subprojects.
 
2.
Financing of Housing Subprojects.
 
Part B
1.
A technical assistance and training program (including audits), which will 
require the employment of consultants and acquisition and utilization of equipment, to 
strengthen the institutional capacity of: (a) the Borrower to supervise the execution 
of Part A of the Project; and (b) the Provinces to carry out and supervise the 
execution of Part A of the Project.
2.
(a)   Studies on the flooding records and patterns of the Parana river basin, 
and on the adequacy of legislation regarding emergency situations in Argentina.
(b)   Preparation of terms of reference for future studies regarding: (i) 
Page  10
regional issues concerning flooding in the Parana river basin; (ii) mechanisms to 
prevent flood losses that discourage development; and (iii) insurance options as a way 
of spreading flood losses over a period of time and across larger groups than those 
directly impacted by any given flood.
3.
Technical assistance to improve INCYTH's capability to monitor hydrological 
trends, carry out flood forecasting and issue flood warnings, which will require the 
employment of consultants and acquisition and utilization of equipment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
                          (expressed in dollars)*
 
May 15, 1997                                    
3,945,000
November 15, 1997                               
4,095,000
May 15, 1998                                    
4,250,000
November 15, 1998                               
4,415,000
May 15, 1999                                    
4,580,000
November 15, 1999                               
4,755,000
May 15, 2000                                    
4,935,000
November 15, 2000                               
5,125,000
May 15, 2001                                    
5,320,000
November 15, 2001                               
5,520,000
May 15, 2002                                    
5,730,000
November 15, 2002                               
5,945,000
May 15, 2003                                    
6,175,000
November 15, 2003                               
6,410,000
May 15, 2004                                    
6,650,000
November 15, 2004                               
6,905,000
May 15, 2005                                    
7,165,000
November 15, 2005                               
7,440,000
May 15, 2006                                    
7,720,000
November 15, 2006                               
8,015,000
May 15, 2007                                    
8,320,000
November 15, 2007                               
8,635,000
May 15, 2008                                    
8,965,000
November 15, 2008                               
9,305,000
May 15, 2009                                    
9,660,000
November 15, 2009                              
      10,020,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
     not more than six years
Page  11
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                   1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
(a)   Goods and civil works under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $250,000 and $1,000,000 per contract, respectively, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $21,800,000 and 80,000,000, 
respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers or contractors, as 
the case may be, eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that, under special circumstances to be
justified by the Borrower to the Bank, civil works under Part A.1 of the Project, 
costing less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000,000, may be directly contracted with an 
eligible contractor by the Province, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(b)   Goods under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Civil works under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more but not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more per contract, shall 
be procured under limited international bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank and 
consistent with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of Section III of the Guidelines.
4.
Goods under Housing Subprojects may be procured in accordance with the usual 
practices of the beneficiaries of such Subprojects. 
5.
Subject to the prior approval of the Borrower, civil works under Part A.1 of the 
Project may be carried out by a Province through force account, provided that the 
aggregate cost of such civil works shall not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the 
total cost of the Eligible Emergency Subprojects to be carried out by such Province.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)   With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A and B.3 hereof, and the first two contracts for works to be procured in each 
calendar year pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2 hereof, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
Page  12
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Provinces in the carrying out of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ, and cause the Provinces to employ, consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, provided, however, that the employment 
of consultants with a cost not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 per contract will 
only require the prior review by the Bank of their respective terms of reference.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $17,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  13
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including:
(1)   Repayment period of the Subsidiary Loan of up to the same period of 
amortization of the Loan, including a grace period of up to the same period of grace 
of the Loan.
Page  14
(2)   The Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated in dollars or in Pesos and the 
amounts withdrawn thereunder and outstanding (together with interest and other charges 
thereon) shall be payable in the same currency in which they are denominated and in 
amounts equivalent to the various currencies in which the principal amount of the Loan 
and interest and other charges thereon are to be paid by the Borrower to the Bank 
pursuant to Article IV of the General Conditions in respect to the amounts withdrawn 
from the Loan Account for purposes of making the Subsidiary Loans to the Provinces.
(3)   The Subsidiary Loans shall carry the same interest rate applicable to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(4)   Administrative charges owed to the Financial Intermediary pursuant to the 
Financial Agency Agreement, as amended pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Loan 
Agreement, and the commitment charges applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 
of this Agreement shall be allocated proportionately among the Provinces according to 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
(5)
The obligation of the Province to: (a) carry out the component of Parts A 
and B (b) of the Project, under such Province's responsibility, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the Manual; and (b) comply with all the other 
obligations of such Province included in this Agreement.
(6)
The obligation of each of the Province and the Borrower to provide funds: 
(a) in the case of the Province, in an amount equivalent to at least 15% of the total 
cost of an Eligible Emergency Subproject and of the amount of a Housing Grant; and (b) 
in the case of the Borrower, of the remaining necessary counterpart funds for any such 
Eligible Emergency Subproject or Housing Grant, provided, however, that such 
obligation of the Borrower shall start on January 1, 1993.
(7)
The obligation of the Province to: (a) maintain, as provided in the Prior 
Loan Agreement, the SUPCE for purposes of coordinating, supervising, and assisting the 
Province in, the carrying out of Part A of the Project; and (b) provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, staff and other resources required by the SUPCE to 
carry out its functions and responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner.
