CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 561 BO
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿I
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENI ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA (hereinafter called BAB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between  Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and    the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million and five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BAB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BAB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BAB shall carry out that portion of Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement to be carried out
by it in its capacity as a Participating Bank with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking and agricultural
practices.
(b)  The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of Part
A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit


﻿4
Agreement, and BAB shall ensure at all times that said operating policies and
procedures are duly carried out.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BAB in the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, BAB shall (i) expand its livestock project division to include agricultural
projects and related technical responsibilities, such division to be called Agricultural
and Livestock Project Division (ALPD); (ii) cause ALPD to have an adequate
number of qualified staff under the direction of the Project Director, who shall
be assisted by the Deputy Project Director.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (2)
of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. BAB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and farms included in Part A of the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. BAB shall establish a special unit within ALPD to carry out,
in respect of Part A of the Project, a systematic recording of on-farm investments,
incomes and expenditures, and other relevant data, such recording to be made
on the basis of a representative sample of farms included in Part A of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BAB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   BAB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BAB
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿I
5
Section 2.07. BAB shall cause ALPD to provide such agricultural extension
and other technical services as shall be required by the Beneficiaries for Part A
of the Project, and shall cause such services to be made available to the Beneficiaries
through an adequate staff of officers trained in the techniques appropriate to the
Farm Plans.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BAB
Section 3.01. (a) BAB shall complete within 18 months from the date of
this Agreement, or such other date as the Association shall agree (i) a detailed
study of its financial condition; (ii) a management and organizational study based
on job analysis and evaluation; (iii) a revision of its accounting procedures; and
(iv) a training program for its staff.
(b)   In order to assist BAB in the carrying out of the studies and training
program referred to in the preceding paragraph (a) of this Section, BAB shall employ
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   BAB    shall, after having   afforded  the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment, adopt an overall reorganization plan, including staff
development, based on the recommendations of the consultants referred to in the
preceding paragraph (b) of this Section and shall put such plan into effect within
six months after receiving such recommendations.
Section  3.02. BAB shall (i) within     12 months from     the date of this
Agreement, or such other date as the Association shall agree, revise, in consultation
with the Association, its regulations concerning future operations with a view to
improving its financial practices; and (ii) put such regulations into effect in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. BAB shall, within 18 months from the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as the Association shall agree, review with the Association the
possibility of integrating the management and finances of ALPD into those of BAB,
taking into account therefor the strengthening of BAB's organization and finances.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BAB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. BAB shall establish and maintain a separate account in respect
of the Project and: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements), including such separate
account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements and such separate account for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of BAB,
including such separate account, and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. BAB shall: (i) carry out an analysis of its loans which have
been in arrears, classifying debts by age, category of borrowers and amounts
recoverable and non-recoverable; (ii) write-off such loans as BAB shall have
reasonably determined, on the basis of such analysis, to be non-recoverable; and
(iii) submit to the Association for approval, not later than 12 months from thc
date of this Agreement, or such other period as the Association shall agree, a
financial plan to be undertaken which shall ensure that BAB will maintain an
acceptable financial standing according to appropriate banking practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BAB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿I
7
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BAB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
co have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BAB:
Banco Agricola de Bolivia
Casilla 1179
La Paz, Bolivia


﻿8
Cable address:
BANAGRICO
LaPaz
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BAB may be taken or executed by the Presidente and the Gerente General
of BAB or such other person or persons as they shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BAB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BAB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BAB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Luis Arnal
Authorized Representative


﻿I
9
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts concerning the acquisition of vehicles for ALPD staff shall be let
Linder procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Office and laboratory equipment costing in the aggregate not more than the
equivalent of $110,000 shall be purchased through regular commercial channels,
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the equipment and availability of
service facilities.
3.    Civil works costing in the aggregate not more than $200,000 shall be directly
contracted, provided, however, that in the case of any such works costing more
than the equivalent of $75,000, the procurement thereof shall be made through
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's
procedures.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts referred to in Part A.1 hereof:
(a)   Before bids are invited, BAB shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, BAB shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award


﻿10
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BAB
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, BAB shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform BAB and state the reasons for such determination.


