Report No 1031a-BR                                                  FLE  CPY
Appraisal of
Agricultural Research I Project
Brazil
April 15, 1976
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their off ctat duttes ls contents may not
otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bank authorization



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit        Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1           =     Cr$ 8.9 (December 1975)*
1 Cr$         =      US$0.1124
Cr$1 million         US$112,359
Weights and Measures
m    =    meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
2                           2
m         square meter (1 m  = 10.76 square feet)
km   =    kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha   =    hectare (1 ha = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres)
2                               2
km   =    square kilometer (1 km  = 247.1 acres = 100 ha = 0.386 square miles)
3                         3
m    =    cubic meter (1 m  = 1.31 cubic yards   264.2 US gallons)
kg   =    kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
ton  =    1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
Abbreviations
ABCAR     =    Brazilian Association for Credit and Rural Assistance
ARC       =    Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Agricultural Research
Center)
BEFIEX    =    Brazilian Commission for Providing Fiscal Benefits to
Special Export Programs
BNB       =    Banco do Nordeste do Brazil S.A.
(Bank of Northeastern Brazil)
CACEX     =    Carteira de Comercio Exterior/Banco do Brasil
(External Commerce Burea/ Bank of Brazil)
CEPLAC    =    Commission for Recuperation of Cacao Culture in Rural Areas
CIAT      =    International Center for Tropical Agriculture,
Palmira, Colombia
*Average Exchange Rates (Selling):
1973       1974       May 1975    November 1975
1 US$ =   6.126       6.794       7.975          8.775
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2-
CIMMYT    =    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
Mexico, D.F., Mexico
CNEPA     =    National Center for Agricultural Research and Education
CNPq.     =    National Research Council
CODEVASF  =    Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Company for the Development of the Sao Francisco
Valley)
COMPATER  =    Comissao Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria e de Assistencia
Tecnica e Extensao Rural (National Commission for Agricul-
tural Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension)
CONDEPE   =    Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria (National
Council for Livestock Development)
CSIRO     =    Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization
DNOCS          Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas (National
Department for Anti-drought Operations)
DNPEA          Departamento Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (National
Department for Agricultural Research)
EMATER         Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (State
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Corporation)
EMBRATER  =    Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Corporation)
FDPI      =    Fundo de Desenvolvimento de Programas Integrados (Fund for
the Development of Integrated Programs)
IBDF           Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Forestal (Brazilian
Institute for Forestry Development)
IBGE      =    Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics)
ICRISAT   =    International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid
Tropics, Hyderabad, India
IDB       =    Inter-American Development Bank
IITA      =    International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan,
Nigeria
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INCRA     =    Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INFAOL    =    Instituto Nordestino para o Desenvolvimento do Algodao e
Oleaginosas (Institute for Development of Cotton & Oilseeds)
INPA      =    Instituto de Pesquisa da Amazonia (Research Institute for
Amazonia)
IPA       =    Instituto de Pesquisa Agronomica de Pernambuco
(Pernambuco Agronomic Research Institute)
IPEAS     =    Institute for Agricultural Research in the South
IPEAL     =    Instituto de Pesquisa do Algodao (Cotton Research Institute)
IRRI      =    International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos,
Laguna, Philippines
MME/RADAM =    Natural Resource Survey Unit of Ministry of Energy and Mines
MRRI      =    Malaysian Rubber Research Institute
NCC       =    Centro Nacional de Pesquisa (National Commodity Center)
PIN       =    Programa de Integracao Nacional (Program for National
Integration)
POLOCENTRO=    Program for the Development of the Central-West
PLAMAN    =    Plano de Melhoramento e Alimentacao do Gado Leitero
(Plan for the Improvement and Feeding of Dairy Cattle)
PND II    =    Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento II (1975-79)
(II National Development Plan: 1975-1979)
POLAMAZONIA=   Programa de Polos Agropecuarios e Agrominerais da
Amazonia (Program for Agricultural and Agro-mineral
Nuclei in Amazonia)
POLONORDESTE=  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
PROAGRO     =  Programa de Garantia da Atividade Agricola (Guarantee
Program for Agricultural Production)
PRODEPAN    =  Programa Especial de Desenvolvimento do Pantanal - Mato
Grosso (Special Program for the Development of Swampland -
Mato Grosso)
PRODOESTE   =  Programa de Desenvolvimento do Centro-Oeste (Program for
Development of the Midwest)



- 4 -
PROTERRA  =    Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulos a
Agroindustria do Norte e do Nordeste (Program for Land
Redistribution and Agricultural Incentives in the North
and Northeast)
SUFRAMA   =    Superintendency for the Manaus Free Trade Zone
SUDAM     =    Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
(Superintendency for the Development of Amazonia)
SUDECO    =    Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento do Centro Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West)
SUDENE    =    Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Super-
intendency for the Development of the Northeast)
UEPAE     =    Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa Agropecuaria Estadual
(State Agricultural Experiment Station)
USAID     =    United States Agency for International Development






BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................    i  -  iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......................................
II.   BACKGROUND .........................................             2
A.  The Agricultural Sector ........................            2
B. Importance of the Selected Commodities in
the Agricultural Economy .....        ................    3
C.  Present Status of Agricultural Research ........            4
D.  Present Status of Agricultural Education .......            5
E.  Present Status of Agricultural Extension .......            6
F.  Production and Distribution of Improved Seed ...            7
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................             8
A.  Brief Description ..............................            8
B.  Detailed Features ..............................            9
C.  Cost Estimates .................................           13
D.  Financing ......................................           15
E.  Procurement .....................................          15
F.  Disbursements ..................................           15
C.  Accounts and Auditing ..........................           16
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................            16
A.  Administration .................................           16
B.  Staffing .......................................           19
C.  Consultant Services ............................           20
D.  Training and Fellowships Program ....        ...........   20
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................            21
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................            23
This report is based on a project proposal prepared by the Project Prepara-
tion Team of the Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (EMBRAPA) and
the findings of two Bank missions: pre-appraisal, July 1975, and appraisal,
July-August 1975. During pre-appraisal the research programs were reviewed
by six International Research Center Consultants: E. Alvarez-Luna,
A.C. McClung, J.C. Moomaw, J.G. Ryan, H.H. Stonaker, E.J. Wellhausen and
W.H. Wessling (technical program review team), plus D.B. Shoesmith (Consultant
Architect) and Messrs. R. Armour, E. Senner and N. Sharma (Bank). The apprai-
sal mission was comprised of R.P. Armour, G. Losson, F.M. Schorosch and
E.E. Senner (Bank) and A.H. Moseman, E.J. Wellhausen, J.M. Shelton and
D.B. Shoesmith (Consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES (Continued)
1.   The Agricultural Sector
Table 1: Participation of Agricultural Product in GNP of Brazil
Table 2:  Area, Population and Demographic Density by Geographic
Region
Table 3:  Regional Distribution of Agricultural Product, Labor Force
and Crop Land, and Indices of Labor Productivity, Land
Productivity and Land/Labor Ratio
Table 4:  Area, Yield and Output of Selected Commodities, Brazil
Table 5:  Area, Yield and Output of Selected Crops of Region
Table 6:  Gross Value of Production of Principal Agricultural Products
2.   Agricultural Research Services
Table 1: Population, Agricultural Establishments and Enrollments in
Agricultural Sciences
Table 2: State Extension Units and Working Force
3.   National Research Program for Rice
Table 1:  Project Cost
Table 2:  Technical Services
Table 3:  Staff Development Patterns and Schedule of Establishment
Cost
Table 4:  Research Station Network
Table 5:  Staffing Pattern
4.   National Research Program for Beans
(Tables as in Annex 3)
5.   National Research Program for Maize/Sorghum
(Tables as in Annex 3)
6.   National Research Program for Cassava
(Tables as in Annex 3)
7.   National Research Program for Cotton
(Tables as in Annex 3)
8.   National Research Program for Rubber
(Tables as in Annex 3)
9.   National Research Program for Beef Cattle
(Tables as in Annex 3)
10. National Research Program for Dairy Cattle
(Tables as in Annex 3)
11. National Research Program for Sheep/Goats
(Tables as in Annex 3)



-3-
ANNEXES (Continued)
12. Research Program for Farming Systems in the Semi-Arid Zone (Northeast)
(Tables as in Annex 3)
13. Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados (Central
West) (Tables as in Annex 3)
14.  Research Program for Farming Systems in Amazonia (North)
(Tables as in Annex 3)
15. The Civil Works Program
Appendix 1:  Schedule of Accommodation
Appendix 2:  Responsibilities of Technical Support Unit
Appendix 3:  Summary of Civil Works and Land Acquisition
Table 1       Civil Works Cost Estimates
Chart 1   :  Schedule of Civil Works Implementation
16.  Project Cost Estimates and Disbursement
Table 1:  Total Project Cost per Program
Table 2:  Project Cost and Disbursement
Table 3:  Estimated Disbursement Schedules
Table 4:  Establishment Cost Calculation
Table 5:  Distribution of UEPAE Among Programs
Table 6:  Costs for a Typical UEPAE
Table 7:  Technical Services for a Typical UEPAE
Table 8:  Staff Development Pattern and Schedule of Establishment
Cost of a Typical Crop/Livestock UEPAE
17. Project Organization and Management
Table 1:  EMBRAPA Expenditures by General Category
Table 2:  Functional Responsibilities of the UEPAEs
Table 3:  Staffing List for Typical Crop Research UEPAE
Table 4:  Staffing List for Typical Crop/Livestock UEPAE
Table 5:  Consultant Services
Table 6:  Phasing and Cost of Fellowship Program and Scientific
Consultant Services
Table 7:  Fellowships per Program
Table 8:  Collaborating International Research Institutes
Chart 1:  Administrative Organization of EMBRAPA Headquarters
Chart 2:  Proposal Organization for a Commodity Research Station
Chart 3:  Proposed Management Structure for EMBRAPA Research Programs
18. Justification and Benefits
Table 1: Summary of Direct Inference Commodity Studies
Table 2:  Summary of Implicit Technology Generation Function
Table 3:  International Comparative Data on Research and Extension
Expenditures
Table 4:  Selected Research Commodities:  Comparison of Yields
MAP
Project area:  Agro-ecological and Geo-political divisions and Research
Station Network, IBRD - 11884R






BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The proposed five-year project is designed to strengthen the agri-
cultural research capability of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corpo-
ration (EMBRAPA). It would focus on three important tropical agro-ecological
areas -- North, Northeast, and Central-West -- and give emphasis to accelerat-
ing production of nine commodities, or commodity groups, selected as being
of major importance to the Brazilian economy. The project would thus support
nine National Commodity Research Programs and three Area Farming Systems
Research Programs. The core research programs of the former would be imple-
mented through eight National Commodity Centers (NCC) and the latter through
three area Agricultural Research Centers (ARC), while adaptive research with
new technology, provided by the core research programs, would be carried out
at 14 state-level experiment stations (UEPAEs) 1/. These stations (UEPAEs)
would also play an important role in ensuring, through on-farm demonstration
plots, that the new technology evolved is appropriate and available to farmers
at all levels of production.
ii.       The nine crop/livestock commodities to be given priority would be:
rice, maize/sorghum 2/, cassava, cotton, beans, rubber, dairy cattle, beef
cattle and sheep/goats 2/. The project would provide for a broad program
of agro-biological research in each of the three designated agro-ecological
areas, giving priority to the smallholder dominated semi-arid Northeast; the
project would also provide support to the humid tropics of the North
(Amazonia), and the Campos Cerrados region, which is important because of
its rather unique soil/water/plant relationships. The basic goal of farming
systems research would be to study the scope and limitations of the natural
resources available, and to develop, from this knowledge, farming and indi-
vidual commodity production systems technology capable of supporting varied
and long-range utilization of these resources. Although the broad goals of
the proposed research programs are long term, the project is designed to
facilitate, as quickly as possible, transfer of existing knowledge, which is
currently available, both nationally and internationally. In this way, the
strengthening of the national agricultural research capacity is expected to
have a more immediate impact on production goals for the commodities in-
volved. The project would also finance fellowships, either in Brazil or
abroad, to meet EMBRAPA's entire training program need in the project area
for s!taff development; expansion of staff; and consultant research specialist
1/   Derived from the EMBRAPA designation of "Unidade de Execucao de
Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual."
2/   Considered as a single commodity group.  Taken separately they total
11 crop/livestock commodities.



- ii -
services. In addition, the project would fund civil works, purchase of
laboratory and farm equipment and incremental establishment costs, comprising
salaries, materials and supplies for operation of the 25 experiment stations.
Total project costs are estimated at US$189.4 million (Cr$ 1,682.4 million),
with an approximate foreign exchange component of US$40.0 million, or 21%.
The Bank loan would be for US$40 million and the Government would supply the
balance of required funding. EMBRAPA would be responsible for executing the
project and would establish a Technical Support Unit to handle civil works
and procurement.
iii.      Due to the relatively small size and dispersed nature of the civil
works components, it is not expected that foreign, or even major national
firms, would compete for contracts; therefore, Government bidding procedures
would be used. However, foreign bidders would not be excluded in the invita-
tion to bid. Work by force account would be permitted in remote areas. Pro-
curement of laboratory equipment, vehicles and other specialized items would
follow standard Government procedures, especially taking into account the
local availability of spare parts and maintenance capacity, in addition to
bid prices.  EMBRAPA would contract with one or more scholarship and advisory
services in the countries selected for graduate training programs to implement
that portion of the fellowship program which is foreign based. EMBRAPA would
also contract the services of a specialized agency, or agencies, to assist
in the recruitment and administration of the complex technical assistance
component.
iv.       Possible areas of more than usual risk lie in (a) the complexity of
the project extending over a very large geographic area, approximately 80%
of Brazilian territory, and the administrative difficulties inherent in the
effective administration of such a program; (b) the lack of adequately trained
personnel during the early years of project execution, when the training pro-
gram would exert a depleting, rather than supplementary, influence on the pool
of professional staff available; and (c) the difficulty of organizing the
speedy and effective application of research results at the farm level on a
large scale. Nevertheless, agricultural research is a vital element in the
Government's efforts to achieve an announced goal of a 6.2% annual increase
in agricultural production during the 1975-79 period and to maintain adequate
growth thereafter. Since this goal can be achieved only through substantial
production increases per unit area and the rational utilization of new lands
being brought under cultivation, a strong program of agro-biological research
is fully justified. Actual quantification of project benefits is complex and
of questionable value in view .of the uncertainties inherent in research, but
even negative results add to the knowledge of a specific commodity or area.
However, experience has demonstrated that agricultural research, properly
executed and utilized, can provide satisfactory rates of return and that an
appropriate level of national capability is necessary for a country to
benefit from imported technology. In addition, the project would strengthen
the national economy as a whole by providing the means for import substitu-
tion and expanding export possibilities for a limited but important range of
essential food and fiber commodities. By placing major emphasis on one of the
three agro-ecological areas of influence -- the Northeast -- and upon basic



- iii -
commodities most commonly produced by small farmers, it is expected that the
project would ultimately have a major impact on about 1.6 million families
on farms of less than 10 ha in addition to some 400,000 families on farms in
the 11 to 50 ha range. Most of these families have incomes below the relative
poverty level.
v.        Since 1967 the Bank has made seven loans, totalling US$185.4 mil-
lion, for agricultural projects in Brazil. These projects included two for
livestock development, one for grain storage, one for agro-industries, and
three for agricultural development in the Northeast - Alto Turi Land Settle-
ment, Lower Sao Francisco Polders and Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development.
The proposed project would effectively complement many of these earlier
projects as well as provide crucial support to the various rural development
projects now under preparation (and which the Government also hopes to sub-
mit to the Bank for financing) by providing the new technology necessary to
stimulate increased agricultural production.
vi.       Subject to appropriate assurances, the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$40.0 million for a term of 20 years, including five years'
grace. The borrower would be the Government of the Federative Republic of
Brazil.






BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1972, the Brazilian Government requested Bank technical assist-
ance for the then newly formed Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
(EMBRAPA) and a project was tentatively identified in mid-1973. Several
Bank preparation missions visited the project area during 1974, a pre-
appraisal mission visited Brazil in May 1975, and the project was appraised
during July-August 1975. During the preparation phase the scope of the
project was broadened to cover not only technical assistance but also the
training of scientific staff, the development of research infrastructure,
and all the requirements (except land) for research programs on nine basic
crops. The geographical scope of the project, was, however, reduced to
focus primarily on the Northeast region of the country, but with some sup-
port for research activities in the Amazonia (North) and Campos Cerrados
(Central-West) regions on the assumption that the latter regions might
receive further attention during a later phase. Additionally, in view of
the Government's efforts to promote rural development and small-farmer
assistance programs in Northeast Brazil, the project was tailored to support
such specific programs.
1.02      The preparation missions assisted EMBRAPA in formulating an overall
national research policy that would depart from a disciplinary-oriented,
regional research station approach, and follow one that was commodity-
oriented and multi-disciplinary, but concentrating on no more than three
basic agricultural commodities at each station. With this in mind, EMBRAPA
developed a project request based on the commodity research program approach
and limited its research activity to 16 basic crops, nationally, with only
nine of these selected for development in the project area. The relatively
few crops to be investigated were chosen for their importance, either as a
basic food crop or as a valuable export or import substitution crop. The
original proposals were very ambitious, but further discussion resulted in
the total number of research stations to be supported under the project being
reduced from 41 to 25. Also, since existing research efforts in the North-
east have so far largely failed to improve agricultural production in the
area, particularly that of the small farmer, the need for including farming
system techniques in the research program was recognized by EMBRAPA. This
approach was further refined through assistance from the International Re-
search Centers such as the International Center for Tropical Agricultural
(CIAT), the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
(ICRISAT), the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and the International Maize and
Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT).
1.03      The Bank has made seven loans, totalling US$185.4 million, in the
agriculture sector in Brazil: two, amounting to US$66 million were for live-
stock development; one for US$54 million for agro-industries; one for US$23.7



million for grain storage; one for US$6.7 million for settlement; one for
US$23 million for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project; and one for
US$12 million for the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project. Several
additional agricultural projects are under active preparation, including a
second agro-industry project; rural development projects in the States of
Minas Gerais, Paraiba and Ceara; and a land settlement project in the west-
ern state of Mato Grosso. Also, a nutrition project proposed by the Govern-
ment for Bank financing would have important rural components, and a recently
approved secondary and feeder road project would be of direct benefits to
farmers in improving access to markets and opening new agricultural areas.
Parallel to recent Bank lending activities in agriculture, a special report
entitled "Rural Development Issues and Objectives in Northeast Brazil," No.
665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975, was prepared.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      Brazil's economy has traditionally maintained a strong agricultur-
al base and the relative importance of agriculture has shown only a slow
decline over the past decade, from 22.5% of GNP contributions in 1963 to
17.4% in 1973.  It still remains a very important producer of food and
fiber crops, however, and accounts for 62% of all exported goods. In recent
years, output has grown at an average rate of 6.7%, as compared to average
annual increments of over 10% for the economy as a whole. There is still
enormous potential for further expansion, however, both from increases in the
area brought under cultivation, and also from increases per unit area.
2.02      Agriculturally, Brazil can be divided into five major agro-ecologi-
cal regions (see map). Data 1/ for the past decade (1960-1971) show the
following shifts in relative importance of these five areas:
Percentage of
Total Agricultural      Total
Production         Population          Area in
1960     1971         1971              Sq Km
Region                                     (thousands)       (thousands)
1.  Southeast           44.1      37.5        41,050             918.8
2.  South                30.5     36.0        16,900             562.1
3.  Northeast            18.0     18.5        28,950           1,542.2
4.  Central-West          6.0      6.5         5,300           1,879.4
5.  North                 1.4      1.5         3,700           3,554.0
100.0    100.0        95,900           8,456.5
1/   Source:  EMBRAPA:  Program to Strengthen Agricultural Research,
Vol. II, Page 19, 1975.



- 3 -
These figures clearly indicate the current importance of the Southeast and
South, but they also hint at the potential of the remainder of the country,
in effect, the project area, and the very large numbers of people that would
benefit were agricultural production to be substantially increased.
2.03      Until recently the strategy for development has been based on con-
solidating production in the South and Southeast, but more recently con-
centrated efforts have been made by the Government to significantly increase
production in the remainder of the country. It has also been customary to
expand production by increasing the area under cultivation, rather than by
increasing yields or improving levels of efficiency generally, an expansionist
policy that has had much to recommend it in many ways but one that cannot be
sustained indefinitely. It is now more fully appreciated that in order to
meet the challenge implicit in the National Development Plan (PND II - 1975-79)
and to keep pace with projected growth rates in population and development of
the industrial sector, agriculture must look increasingly towards the use of
additional capital and technical inputs, as opposed to land, as a means of
sustaining yearly increments in production. Improved and more effective agri-
cultural research has, therefore, an absolutely essential role in providing
the required technology to execute such a program, particularly in the North,
Northeast, and Central-West.
B. Importance of the Selected Commodites in the
Agricultural Economy
2.04      Coffee, soybeans and sugar are Brazil's most important export crops,
generating 40% of the total export earnings, but foodcrops are far more im-
portant in terms of employment generated and areas under cultivation. Also,
about 60% of agricultural output is consumed in the domestic market. Beans,
cassava and rice are the staple diet of the poor in Brazil, and an increase
in production of at least 3% per annum is needed to meet the requirements of a
population growing at a rate of 2.9% per year. Actual production increases
in the period from 1967-72 were, however, only 1.4% for cassava, 1.6% for
beans and 2.5% for rice. Since there were no increases in yields per hectare,
even these small production gains relied heavily on new land being brought
under cultivation. Maize is also an important staple food in some areas,
but, again, increased production has barely kept pace with demand and has
also been achieved largely as a result of an expansion of the cultivated
area.
2.05      Beef is an important commodity in both the domestic and export
markets, and annual increases of at least 3.5% will be required to meet
demand. Meat production from sheep and goats is also of importance, mainly
in the domestic economy, and demand is not likely to grow more than 1 to 2%
annually. However, the export demand for sheep and goat skins, which repre-
sents 30% of the animal's value at slaughter, is expected to have a strong
influence on production in areas where harsh conditions severely limit other



- 4 -
types of agricultural enterprise.  Dairy cattle have little relative import-
ance in the project area at present, accounting for only 21% of national
milk production. However, population shifts are expected to increase demand
in the project area by 5.5% over the next seven-year period.
2.06      Cotton, of major importance in the South and Southeast, is also
an important crop in the Northeast. The project area at present produces
59% of Brazilian cotton, and cotton demand is expected to increase by 6%
annually during the next decade. The fact that cotton production in the
Northeast, particularly its harvesting, is not mechanized in the project
area means that there is a significant demand for local labor.  Natural
rubber, which is produced only in the project area, is harvested mainly
(90%) from native trees. Cultivated rubber production will require con-
siderable incentives and new technology to retain even its current 10% hold.
Per capita consumption of rubber products increased by 130% during the past
decade and is expected to maintain numbers of the rural population, parti-
cularly in the North (Amazonia). The relative importance of all commodities
included in the project, by geographic area, is shown in Annex 1, Table 4.
C. Present Status of Agricultural Research
2.07      The structure of agricultural research is currently in transition,
from a verv loosely admninistered group of about 230 research units operated
by many different federal, state and private agencies to a more centralized
arrangement where one federal authority is in charge of all agricultural
research programs. The former approach suffered severely from the lack
of any planning, coordination and guidance at the federal level, and, even
at regional and state levels, the benefits of research were largely unused
due to poor farmer support services. Complementary inputs, such as exten-
sion, credit and marketing, were often either entirely lacking or not avail-
able to a significant proportion of producers. Also, research efforts often
failed to take into account the need for additional inputs such as credit.
It was to remedy this situation that a strong unified research corporation,
Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria - EMBRAPA, was created by law
(No. 5,851) in December 1972. This newly established corporation, linked to
the Ministry of Agriculture, was charged with the full national responsibility
for the coordination and promotion of agricultural research throughout Brazil.
2.08      EMBRAPA intends to exercise its new mandate through two main
avenues of activity: (a) direct action through executive units of EMBRAPA
at the national and state levels; and (b) coordination of the planning,
execution and evaluation of research programs which are being carried out
by state research stations as part of federally integrated development pro-
grams. EMBRAPA intends to further concentrate its initial efforts, within
the broad framework of its mandate, on only 16 agricultural commodity groups,
nine of which are included in the proposed project. The major problems facing



-5-
EMBRAPA were first to provide centralized management and guidance to a pre-
viously severely fractionated organization, while, at the same time, to avoid
disruption of worthy ongoing research projects, and to maintain the enthusiasm
of the very limited cadre of experienced research personnel. Most of these
early organizational problems have now been bvercome, but the need to build up
adequate numbers of qualified professional staff, currently only some 10% of
overall requirements, is still a formidable task, and one which demands a
strong infusion of technical assistance programs at all operational levels if
EMBRAPA's goals are to be realized on a national scale.
2.09      The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA), began
operations on April 26, 1973. It has taken over the functions of the previous
National Department of Agricultural Research (DNPEA) and is responsible for
the coordination and promotion of agricultural research throughout Brazil. It
will establish coordinated, multi-disciplinary, national research programs in-
volving the EMBRAPA research centers, cooperating universities, state and pri-
vate organizations. The nationwide cooperative system is designed to concen-
trate the efforts of the cooperating institutions on problems of national,
regional and state concern. Emphasis will be placed on development of new
technologies to make the nation's agriculture more efficient and productive.
2.10      EMBRAPA's total assets amounted to about Cr$ 1.4 billion (US$185
million) as of December 31, 1974. It is almost totally dependent upon Govern-
ment budget allocations, or Government secured borrowing, to finance its opera-
-a    i .s  i       a n_'- j'>-              arc subjact t  Go ovvernmeant approval
as part of the Ministry of Agriculture budgets. In 1974, EMBRAPA's total ex-
penditures were Cr$ 181.9 million in 1975 prices, or about US$21 million.
Roughly 72% of EMBRAPA's funding in 1974 came directly from the Federal Treasury;
approximately another 18% represented transfers from special contracts between
EMBRAPA and other Brazilian Government entities; about 4% came from a USAID
loan; and 6% came from miscellaneous sources. EMBRAPA's approved 1975 budget
amounted to Cr$ 495.5 million (or roughly US$58 million), about triple the
1974 budget, and represented a very substantial increase in EMBRAPA invest-
ments. The programmed expenditures of EMBRAPA in 1975 represented about
12.5% of the total programmed expenditures of the Ministry of Agriculture.
D. Present Status of Agricultural Education
2.11      In 1975, there were 40 institutions of higher learning offering
57 programs in the agricultural sciences. Most of the schools and programs
have been started in the last 10 to 15 years; few are older than 25 years.
Most animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries study programs are of recent
origin since, traditionally, only agronomy and veterinary sciences were
taught at the older institutions. Total enrollment in the agricultural
sciences in 1973 was 15,090 students, or only 16 per 100,000 inhabitants



- 6 -
and an average of 3.06 students per 1,000 farm enterprises. The majority of
courses offered are at the undergraduate level only, and currently there are
500 places per year for graduate level studies in 29 study programs. Opportu-
nities for graduate education are still concentrated in the South and South-
east, but recently there has been greater interest in the Northeast and North.
Almost 80% of all graduates are employed by federal and state agencies; the
private sector has been slow to engage graduate agriculturalists. Training
capability to meet national requirements is believed to be adequate at the
undergraduate level, but there is still a strong reliance on training abroad
for advanced degrees for agricultural research staff working in specialized
fields of studies (see Annex 2 for details).
E. Present Status of Agricultural Extension
2.12      Every state in Brazil has its own extension service (ACARs).  Qua-
lity and effectiveness vary from state to state, but most state services
have been severely hampered by lack of continuity in policy-making, staff,
and financing and poor support services. Each service has traditionally
operated fairly independently, financing itself and determining its own
policies as circumstances demanded, but all were loosely affiliated to a
national Association of Credit and Rural Technical Assistance Services
(ABCAR), which came under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The link with credit has been significant and, in most instances, indivi-
dual services have deployed most of their field staff on supervising credit
on behalf of the banking system, to a considerable extent because such work
has been a source of much needed financing. Genuine extension work has
suffered as a result, as did attention to the small-scale farmer.
2.13      The Government has recognized the need to improve matters, par-
ticularly in regard to better and more assured financing, and in mid-1974
created the Brazilian Corporation for Technical Assistance and Rural Exten-
sion (EMBRATER) to replace ABCAR. EMBRATER, an autononmous entity, but also
under the control of the Minister of Agriculture, is presently in Lhe pro-
cess of organizing itself. Its primary functions will be to collaborate,
with other agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture, in formulating and im-
plementing policies pertaining to technical assistance and rural exten-
sion and to promote, stimulate and coordinate technical assistance pro-
grams. The staff of the former ABCAR system - 4,724 technicians and 3,594
administrative personnel - are being absorbed by EMBRATER and its state
subsidiaries. EMBRATER plans to double the number of technical staff with-
in the next four years. At the federal level, EMBRATER will be responsible
for all federal budgetary allocations for technical assistance and exten-
sion. Projects in the individual states will be integrated into state
extension programs and these, in turn, will serve as a basis for the formula-
tion of a national extension program. Implementation of extension projects
will be in the hands of the former ACARs, now to be converted into "Empresas"
or state companies (EMATERs). These State Technical Assistance and Rural



-7-
Extension Companies will be sufficiently autonomous to allow for flexibility
and efficient management of day-to-day operations. However, the Federal
Corporation (EDIBRATER) will (a) participate in the share capital and in the
selection of board members, (b) act as the channel for all federal funding
for extension through contractual arrangements for specific programs related
to development projects in the individual states, (c) participate in the
planning of such projects, and (d) assign headquarters (EMBRATER) staff to
the state affiliates for consultation and training purposes.
2.14      The major innovation in the new extension service is the strengthen-
ing of the federal technical and financial support for the activities of the
state affiliates, and the reorientation of the state system towards a broader
range of farmers. The Brasilia headquarters group will provide assistance
at the administrative, planning and operational levels to the state agencies,
which will, henceforth, receive federal funds on the basis of projects pre-
pared in accordance with selection criteria now being set up by EMBRATER.
These criteria will reflect priorities in extension work for geographic areas,
selected commodities, and farmer target groups. It is also anticipated that
EMBRATER and EMBRAPA each will work extremely closely in disseminating re-
search results to farmers. The reorganization is a significant shift in
policy and illustrates the Government's determination to improve support
services to farmers, particularly the smaller farmers. It is interesting to
note, for instance, that one of EIBRATER's first actions on being created was
to organize a seminar to inquire as to how small farmers needs for extension
and technical support services could best be met. The reorganization of the
extension service in effect attempts to focus extension work on those activi-
ties that will contribute to the achievement of national agricultural develop-
ment objectives. Success will depend to a considerable extent on EIIBRATER's
ability to encourage state affiliates (EMATERs) to adopt the new extension
philosophy through specific and clearly defined projects and to develop the
intra- and inter-institutional arrangements so vital to an effective extension
service. It is hoped that Bank support for rural development projects will
help to assure the realization of these objectives (see Annex 2 for details).
F. Production and Distribution of Improved Seed
2.15      Currently, improved seed of several crops is produced in Brazil,
both by private firms and by public or semi-public agencies. The Brazilian
Government has been acutely aware of the need to produce and distribute
improved seeds that would ensure maximum returns from the application of new
technology to agricultural production. During the years 1963-69, a National
Seed Improvement Plan (PLANASEM1) was put into operation under the auspices
of the Ministry of Agriculture. The plan was designed to help develop seed
production capacity in two distinct regions. For one of the regions, which
combined the South and Southeast, a seed production program with investments
of some US$25 million during 1973-75 was partly financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). Seed improvement programs for the second project
region of the North-Northeast and Central-West are less advanced. However,



- 8 -
Ministry of Agriculture funding has now been allocated to seed improvement
programs for these areas, such programs to be expanded over the five-year
period, 1975-79, of the Second National Development Plan (PND II). The
basic goal of all these programs is to make each region largely self-
sufficient in the production and distribution of improved seed.
2.16      EMBRAPA, through its Department of Technology and Science (DTS),
is well aware of the importance of improved seed as an essential link in
the transfer of improved technology to the farmer. EMBRAPA intends to play
an active role in this process by helping set up regional and semi-autonomous
companies which will take the small quantities of foundation seed stock pro-
duced at the experiment stations and multiply them up to the level of basic
seed stocks, which will then be sold to interested commercial enterprises
which, in turn, will produce the certified seed for farmers. EMBRAPA expects
to act only as a catalyst in this process and will release the companies to
full private enterprise control as soon as possible.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The purpose of the project would be to assist EMBRAPA to strengthen
its capability for research programs on nine 1/ commodity groups. The project
would be largely, but not entirely, concentrated in three agro-ecological
areas, namely: (a) the densely populated, but agriculturally poor, Northeast,
where periodic droughts create acute social and economic problems; (b) the
North (Amazonia), where there is limited knowledge of the agricultural poten-
tial; and (c) the Central-West, or Campos Cerrados, an area fringing on
Amazonia, which is also being rapidly opened to human settlement.
3.02      Two types of research programs would be supported under the project--
one type would deal with commodities and one type with farming systems. Com-
modity research programs would be strongly oriented toward increased production
while the principal goal of farming systems research would be to increase agri-
cultural production through more efficient overall use of available resources.
The project would include a limited amount of land purchase and the construc-
tion and development of research laboratories and field facilities at three
Agricultural Research Centers (ARCs), eight National Commodity Centers (NCCs)
and 14 State Experiment Stations (UEPAEs). These facilities represent 54% of
1/   These are grouped as follows:  beans, cassava, cotton, maize/sorghum, rice,
rubber, beef cattle, dairy cattle, sheep/goats. Taken separately these
total 11 crops or livestock commodities.



- 9 -
the 45 stations now operating under EMBRAPA's jurisdiction. Also to be fi-
nanced under the project would be laboratory and farm equipment, technical
research services, and incremental establishment costs over a five-year
period. EMBRAPA would be the executing agency and would establish a Technical
Support Unit (TSU) to plan and supervise the civil works program and to
monitor progress of the project.
B. Detailed Features
The National Commodity Research Programs (Annexes 3 to 11)
3.03      The project would finance nine commodity-oriented research programs 1/
in a national network. NCCs for seven of the commodities chosen, i.e., cotton,
rubber, rice, beans, cassava, beef cattle, and sheep/goats, would be within the
project area. The remaining two Centers, for dairy cattle and maize/sorghum,
would be outside the project area, but would play an important role through
sub-station (satellite) activity in the three agro-ecological areas of the
project's zone of influence. The commodity programs would be strongly oriented
towards increased production, consistent with national policy and development
programs. Short-term goals would be the elimination of constraints to pro-
duction at the farm level by adaptation and adoption of existing technology.
Long-range goals would be the development of new technology through research
on crop/livestock improvement, soils, disease and pest control, cultivation
techniques, farming systems, harvesting, food processing, marketing and pro-
duction economics. The headquarters stations for core research, and the
cooperating UEPAEs for each commodity, have been carefully sited to reflect
areas of major production and climatic and soil variations. Cooperating
experiment stations and institutions, outside the project area, have also
been identified as part of the national research program in each case. The
technical staff of these programs would maintain close linkage with the
farmers through the state and regional offices of EMBRATER.
Research Programs for Farming Systems (Annexes 12 to 14)
3.04      Programs have been designed for farming systems research in the
three agro-ecological areas covered by the project (see Map No. 11884).
Each program would have one headquarters center, which would coordinate
regional research through a network of NCCs and UEPAEs in its area of in-
fluence. The principal goal of these programs would be to increase agri-
cultural production through more efficient overall use of available resources
and would be based initially on the large amount of basic information already
gathered. As a short-term goal, farming systems research would evaluate
1/   Although there are nine commodity research programs, there are only
eight National Commodity Centers (NCCs) because both rice and bean
research will be carried out at the NCC station at Goiania.



- 10 -
this knowledge and apply it to current systems of production. The long-
range objectives would be in-depth studies of the natural resource base
to determine the most effective ways to increase agricultural production
through carefully planned and rational use of each resource, with particular
emphasis on plant/soil/water relationships. The program would also take into
consideration Federal and State development plans and programs related to
the agriculture of the region. Dissemination of research results, and new
technology developed under these programs, would be through the cooperating
NCC and UEPAE stations. The latter would adapt the new techniques to comply
with local production requirements and demonstrate these techniques to the
farmers.
Capital Costs
3.05      The project would finance a civil works program to expand and im-
prove existing experiment station buildings at one ARC site, four NCC sites
and eight UEPAE sites and the partial construction of one ARC site, one NCC
site and six UEPAE sites (Annex 15). Where minor upgrading and repairs to
existing buildings are required, these would be carried out by EMBRAPA simul-
taneously with project development at these sites. Assurances to this effect
were obtained from EMBRAPA at negotiations. Other items also to be financed
would be laboratory and farm equipment for 12 research programs at 25 experi-
ment stations; the development of research farms (land preparation and level-
ing and installation of irrigation systems as necessary) at 21 of the sites;
vehicles for all 25 stations; and land purchase, as may be required, at eight
of the experiment stations.
Technical Services
3.06      Technical services financed under the project would include the
provision of substantial technical assistance to EIBRAPA in the management
and organization of its research programs and a national and international
fellowships program that would assist EMBRAPA to improve its staff. A
Research Program Advisor would be recruited internationally to work closely
with the Director in charge of EMBRAPA's Department of Technology and Science
for a period of five years. Senior scientists would also be recruited in-
ternationally to provide program leadership, including (a) commodity con-
sultants for a term of three years for the three ARCs for a total of
16.5 man-years of long-term consulting services; (b) research program con-
sultants for the commodity and farming systems research programs, for a
total of 43 man-years of long-term consultancy services; and (c) selected
specialist consultants for 41 man-years of short-term consultancy work for
periods of less than one year. These would include farming system and farm
mechanization specialists, plant physiologists and other selected experts
for specific high priority research programs. Under the fellowship program,
123 EMBRAPA staff would be trained in specific commodity-oriented programs
to the Ph.D. level and 663 to the M.Sc. level. Short course training would
also be provided for an additional 180 staff members in subjects specifically
related to the designated commodity research programs in the project area.
Through such short courses and exchange visits to several of the International



- 11 -
Research Centers, there could be a valuable interchange of research results
and techniques in the following areas: research on beef cattle, beans,
cassava and farming systems at CIAT, on farming systems at ICRISAT and IITA,
on maize and sorghum at CIMMYT, and on rice at IRRI.
Establishment Items
3.07      The project would also finance (a) salaries for incremental techni-
cal staff, administrative staff and laborers in accordance with the estimated
staff development pattern over the five-year period; and (b) operating mate-
rials such as fuel, laboratory supplies, fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides
and general expenses such as utilities, communications and travel.
Summary and Main Features
3.08      The twelve major research programs to be financed under the project
may be summarized as follows:



- 12 -
TECHNICAL SERVICES                     STAFFING PATTERNS
RESEARCH      HEADQUAR-      SUB-
PROGRAM       TERS         STATIONS    Consultants       Fellowship Program          Number of Employees
STATION                  Man-years         (Participants)         Main Station      Sub-stations
Long-  Short-  Ph.D.   M.Sc.  Short                           (UEPAEs)      Annex
Term    Term                   Course   Prof.  Support   Prof. Support   Number
Rice          Goiania         4         3.0     2.5      5      27       15       64       15      30       21        3
Beans         Goiania         7         3.0     2.5      5      23       14       64       16      39       27        4
Maize/         Sete           8         6.0     3.5      5      34       18       66       31      48       32        5
Sorghum       Lagoas
Cassava       Cruz das        3         7.0     5.5      4      22       15       40       23      26       21        6
Almas
Cotton        Campina         5         5.0     5.5      5      34       15       65       31      32       27        7
Grande
Rubber        Manaus          1         6.0     5.5      6      34       20       84       31      23       16        8
Beef-         Campo           2         3.0     2.5      6      42      18        68       31      64      32         9
cattle        Grande
Dairy-        Agua            2         3.0     2.5      5      34       10       63       31      64       32       10
cattle        Limpa
Sheep!        Sobral          2         5.0     4.5      6      34       10       68       31      32       16       11
Goats
Farming       Petrolina/      1 -/      9.0     6.5      7      35       15       59       31      54       19       12
Systems       Juazeiro
for
Semi-arid
Tropics
Farming       Planaltina      --/       3.0     1.5      8      29       15       75       31       -        -       13
Systems
for
Campos
Cerrados
Farming       Belem                     3.0     2.0      8      30       15       81       40       -        -       14
Systems
for
Amazonia
1/ Farming systems programs would collaborate with all national commodity research stations and state experiment
stations in the agro-ecological area of influence. In the case of Petrolina/Juazeiro, however, a research
program would also be carried out at Alagoinha.



- 13 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.09      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$189.4 million, of which 21% or about US$40 million, would be the foreign
exchange component. Cost estimates for capital inputs are based on informa-
tion obtained in Brazil and comparative data from international research cen-
ters. The costs for buildings, laboratory equipment and furniture were
estimated on the basis of recent cost levels in Brazil, as provided by
architects of the Ministry of Agriculture and the private sector. Estimates
lor farm development, field equipment, vehicles, library documentation and
information services reflect similar data from existing research centers
operating in Brazil. Although architectural design and detailed engineering
work is not yet completed for some of the stations, the project includes all
of the major construction works which will be necessary to complement other
project components for which implementation could begin without delay. The
civil works cost estimates have been based on recent experience in Brazil for
comparable construction, taking into account expected space requirements of
the project research stations and the wide regional variations in construc-
tion costs. Costs of technical services are based on international experience.
Some flexibility has been allowed in the case of consultant research special-
ists to be engaged in the research programs and for fellowships, the number
assigned to each of the 12 research programs being indicative only. Annual
costs per consultant were estimated to be US$75,000, of which 40% went for
salary; 30 for insurance, retirement, family educational allowance and other
benefits; and 30% for duty station allowances, including rent, travel expenses
and repatriation. These estimates were based on (a) comparative data from
three previous Bank loans for similar research projects, (b) current informa-
tion from eight International Research Centers, and (c) the limited availab-
ility of internationally recruited scientists with the necessary qualifications
and competence to meet the specifications provided in the appropriate terms of
reference in each case. Salary calculations are based on an estimated staff
development pattern for the five-year period, using EMBRAPA's salary scales.
From data obtained from various EMBRAPA research stations, and from the
experience of international agricultural research centers, it is estimated
that other operating expenses would be 30% of salaries during the first two
years and 40% in years 3 to 5 (see Annex 16). In all cases, the existing
salary and operating costs have been appraised and subtracted from the total
establishment cost, so that only the incremental cost is shown as part of
project cost.
3.10      In view of uncertainties bearing on building requirements, a
physical contingency of 20% was taken to cover such works. A physical con-
tingency of 5% was applied for all other components. The total physical con-
tingency amounts to 6.5% of the base project cost and the price contingency
to 24.5% of the base cost. Price contingencies are based on projected future
international price increases and are calculated in US dollars. Project cost
estimates, details of which are given in Annex 16, are summarized below:



- 14 -
MiMlion Cr$               Million US$-                  F  egn
freig
I. Develpprnent Costs                      Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total   Cost   Exchange
Civil Works                           105.4    26.3      131.7    11.8       3.0     14.8    10         20
Land Purchase                          10.7       -        10.7     1.2       -       1.2      1       -
Laboratory Equipment and                8.9    21.4       30-3      1.0      2.4      3.4      2       70
Furniture
Research Farm Development               7.1      1.8       8.9      0.8      0.2      1.0      0.5     20
Farm Equipment                          3 6.9    5.3       22.2     1.9      o.6       2.5     2       25
Vehicles                                25.8     8.0       33.8     2.9      0.9       3.8     2.5      25
Library Documentation and               7.1    17.8        24.9     0.8      2.0      2.8      2       70
Information Services                -           --   -   -                          -  -   -
Sub-total                    181.9    80.6      262.5    20.4      9.1      29.5    20        28
II.  Technical Services
Long and Short-term Consultants         6.7    60.1        66.8     0.7      6.8      7.5      5       90
Long and Short-term Fellowships         59.6    81.9      141.5       .7     9.2     15-9    LL         58
Sub-total                    66.3   142.0      208.3      7.4    16.0      23.4    16        68
III.  Incremental Establishment Cost
Salaries                              575.8       -       575.8    64.7       -      64.7    45         -
Other Operating Expenses               187.8    53.4      241.2    21.1      6.0     27.1    19         22
Sub -total                   763.6    53.4      817.0    85.8      6.o      91.8    64         6
IV. Base Cost                             1,011.8   276.0   1,287.8   113.6    31.1    144.7   100           21
(so -totals I + 11 + III)
V. PhysicaL ContingenciesY' (Civil          66.8    16.9       83.7      7.5     1.9       9.4      7       20
Works including professional
fees = 20%, all other = 5%)
VI.  Price Contingencies3/                  251.9    62.3      314.2    28.3       7.0     35-3    24        20
VII.  Project Total Cost                   1.350.5   355.2   1,685.7   149.4    40.0    189.4   131           21
t/ US$1 = Cr$ 8.9 (December 1975).
Cost breakdowns, without contingencies, between the various research programs are *stimated as follows:
rice, US$9.0 million; beans, US$9.2 million;  eaize/sorghum, US$10.6 mi-lion; cassava, IIS$1C.1 million
cotton, US$15.8 willion; rubber, US$11.4 million; dairy cattle, UJS$9.3 million; beef cattle, US$15.hl million;
sheep/goats, US$13.6 millicn; and farming systens programs in the semi-arid zone, US$15.3 million; in the
Campos Cerrados, US$6.4 million, and in Anascnia, US$10.4 million.  Included are US$6.3 million for
fellowships for E11BRAPA staff working in the Droject area with commodities other than the afcrementioned.
2/ Physical Contingencies
(a)  Civil Works (including professional fees)
20% - for all years. See Annex 16, Table 1.
(b) All other iters - 5%. See Annex 16, Table 1.
3/ Price Contingencies
(a) Civil Works
1976         1977          1978          1979          1980
1 u-1-2%                10o%          -             -
(l)  Farm Equipment and other capital inputs
10%           8%            8%            8%            7%
(c) Technical Services and Establishment Cost
9%           8%            7%            7%            7%
(See Annex 16, Table 2 for details.)
December 15, 1975



- 15 -
D. Financing
3.11      The Bank would finance US$40 million, or 21% of total project
cost, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost. The Govern-
ment would finance the remaining 79%. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the Government would supply these funds in a timely manner. The
borrower would be the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would also carry
the exchange risk, and make available the proceeds of the loan to EMBRAPA on
the same terms and conditions as such proceeds are lent by the Bank to the
Borrower. The Bank loan would be for 20 years, including five years of grace,
and at the prevailing interest rate.
E. Procurement
3.12      Due to the dispersed nature of the project civil works and the
relatively small size of the construction contracts, it is doubtful whether
foreign contractors, or even major national contractors, would be interested
in building the proposed facilities. However, Government procurement pro-
cedures would be followed with contracts advertised in the local and national
press. Foreign bidders would not be excluded. Work by force account would
be permitted in remote areas where it is difficult to obtain contractors by
competitive bidding. Laboratory and documentation equipment, which is highly
specialized, and for which after-sales service is of critical importance and
must be provided locally, would be purchased through prudent international
shopping. When a reasonable number of suppliers could be eligible for com-
petitive bidding tenders would be advertised locally, but not excluding
foreign firms. It is expected that approximately US$5.7 million in special-
ized laboratory equipment and library and documentation equipment and materials
would be imported. Furniture, farm equipment and vehicles, which would be
provided for the 25 widely scattered project stations over several years,
would also be purchased according to normal Government procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory.
F. Disbursement
3.13      The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the direct
foreign exchange expenditures for fellowships (about US$12.0 million), con-
sultants (about US$9.9 million), laboratory equipment and furniture (about
US$3.1 million) and library and documentation facilities (about US$2.6 mil-
lion); 1/ and (b) 30% of all other project expenditures, excluding those for
land purchase and establishment cost (about US$12.4 million). Prior to sub-
mitting disbursement requests for civil works at research stations, EMBRAPA
1/   The figures given in this paragraph relate to costs of project com-
ponents, inclusive of physical and price contingencies. Therefore,
they are not directly comparable with the costs given in the cost
estimate table.



- 16 -
would complete the purchase and/or arrange for the legal rights for use of
the land at the respective stations (Annex 15). Assurances to this effect
were given by EMBRAPA at negotiations. An implementation schedule for civil
works is provided in Chart 1, Annex 15.
G. Accounts and Auditing
3.14      The accounting system of EMBRAPA is satisfactory.  Accounts are
audited by Price, Waterhouse, Peat and Company. During negotiation, assur-
ances were given by EMBRAPA that adequate project accounts would be main-
tained, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices, to show the
financial position of the project, and that, within four months of the end
of each fiscal year, the Bank would be provided with copies of the audit
report made by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Administration
Project Responsibility
4.01      The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) would be
the executing agent for the project. One of its three Directors, the Director
of 'the Department of Technology and Science (DTS), would have prime responsibi-
lity for the execution of the research project. He would be assisted by a
team of 12 senior scientists. This team will consist of two units. The
first, a Technical Unit, will be composed of eight specialists in such discip-
lines as genetics, entomology, plant pathology, climatology, veterinary
science, agronomy, agricultural economics, and agricultural engineering. The
second four-man unit will act as a management team to provide the technical
director with administrative liaison between the experiment stations and
EMBRAPA headquarters.
Civil Works Technical Support Unit
4.02      A Technical Support Unit (TSU) has been established by EMBRAPA to
plan and supervise the project's civil works program. Staff will gradually be
built up to include about five architedts and engineers; there will be adequate
support staff (about seven) for administrative and clerical duties. The TSU
will act as owner's representative in dealing with the executive architects
who will be retained for preparing the development plan, architectural design
and contract documents and for providing site supervision. Other duties of
this unit would be to prepare detailed development plans for each station to
be financed under the project. EMBRAPA will then submit such plans to the
Bank for approval prior to calling for construction bids. Assurances to this



- 17 -
effect were given by EMBRAPA at negotiations. Details concerning the specific
duties of the TSU are given in Annex 15. Assurances were given at negotiations
that the TSU would be maintained and adequately staffed during the project
implementation period.
National Commodity Centers (NCC)
4.03      The nat,onal commodity research programs would be conducted through
a network of research centers, including a national headquarters center,
satellite or sub-centers, and cooperating institutions. The composition of
the network would vary for different commodities.  Core integrated, multi-
disciplinary research on the factors or problems that limit production of
the commodity would be undertaken primarily by the team of scientists
located at a headquarters research station or center. The Director of each
regional station would have overall administrative responsibility for the
operation of the station, while the Associate Director for Research would be
responsible for overall management and supervision of the research activities
and would also serve as the national program leader/coordinator. The latter
would have principal responsibility and authority for planning, execution,
coordination and evaluation of the national program and would be the principal
liaison officer with the technical directorate staff of EMBRAPA, with parti-
cipating research team members, and with collaborating institutions.
Agricultural Research Centers (ARC)
4.04      The research on improvement of farming systems for the three main
agro-ecological regions would be conducted primarily at ARCs for (a) the
semi-arid tropics, at Petrolina/Juazeiro, in the states of Pernambuco and
Bahia; (b) the humid tropics, at Belem in Para State; and (c) the Central-
West, or Campos Cerrados region, at Planaltina, in the Federal District.
Work would be done, however, in close cooperation with NCCs and with other
institutions with mutual interests. The Director of each regional station
would have overall administrative responsibility for the operation of the
station, while the Associate Director for Research would serve as the program
leader/coordinator for the respective area farming systems research program.
He would function in the same manner as the national commodity research pro-
gram leaders in taking responsibility for planning, execution, coordination
and evaluation and also for maintaining relations with EMBRAPA headquarters
and cooperating institutions.
State Research Units (UEPAEs)
4.05      UEPAEs would conduct research to improve farming systems in the
area or micro-regions in which they were located. The multi-disciplinary team
of researchers at the UEPAE station would collaborate with the NCCs and the
ARCs in adaptive research and testing where there is mutual interest in new
materials and practices. Research personnel would be located at these
stations, on assignment from national commodity research programs or from an
agricultural research center, to work on specific problems. The UEPAEs would
function as the bridge between the research workers developing new technology



- 18 -
and the extension workers responsible for its diffusion to farmers. The
UEPAE would include an extension specialist, a training officer, and, in
some instances, a seed production specialist. These officers would assist
in coordinating farm demonstrations, training programs and field days to
ensure effective transfer of research findings to farmers.
Program Planning, Execution, Coordination, Evaluation and Monitoring
4.06      Advisory Councils.  The National Committee for Agricultural Re-
search, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (COMPATER) would provide
guidance to EMBRAPA on national priorities for agricultural development and
on general policy and procedural matters. Advisory councils would be estab-
lished for the national commodity or area farming systems research programs
to assist in identification of priority problems in the general planning of
research programs and in the dissemination of improved technology.
4.07      Execution and Coordination.  The execution of research would be
handled through maximum delegation of responsibility and authority to the
national program leader/coordinators and to the participating stations.
The national program leader/coordinators for the various research pro-
grams would be responsible for developing and integrating research efforts
of the multi-disciplinary teams. They also would serve as the principals
in facilitating cooperation between commodity programs, regional research
programs, state research units, and others collaborating in investigations of
mutual interest.
4.08      Evaluation and Monitoring of Research Programs.  A Program, Plan-
ning and Budgeting System (PPBS) would be established for each research
program to provide detailed information on the problem, objectives, research
plan, program leader, participating institutions and principal scientists,
terms of reference for the project, and funding. This system would serve
as the mechanism with which EMBRAPA would monitor the programs, as well as
a basis for general management of research. Monthly or quarterly alloca-
tions of funds, together with periodic reports of expenditures and annual
financial accounting, would provide effective financial monitoring, while
the annual workshops and reports on technical aspects of the project would
supply data for effective scientific evaluation and monitoring for the
research programs. EMBRAPA would provide the Bank with detailed quarterly
reports on the status of project execution (see Annex 17). An assurance
that this would be done was obtained at negotiations.
4.09      Evaluation of Project Organizational Structure and Management.
Since many of the organizational links between state, area and commodity
centers, national programs, and EMBRAPA headquarters are still being devel-
oped (see Annex 17), it would be necessary for EMBRAPA and the Bank to review
and revise arrangements, as necessary, at a later date. Assurances were
given by EMBRAPA that it would prepare a full review of its structure and
research program administration with the Bank by December 31, 1978. This
review would take place after completion of the first three years of project
execution and would concentrate on study areas such as (a) adequate exchange



- 19 -
of ideas between producers and research staff, (b) participation of research
staff in research program planning, (c) methods by which both administrative
and technical problems are resolved between administrative (headquarters) and
operational (experiment station) staff, (d) methods by which research pro-
grams respond to the needs of development plans at the federal, state and
local levels, and (e) level of staffing at the various research centers and
significant progress towards achieving project goals in this crucial area.
Necessary revisions, as mutually agreed upon, would be implemented at that
time.
Contract Research
4.10      EMBRAPA would provide support for research on special problems
of priority concern in agricultural development to be conducted under con-
tract or agreement by organizations with special staff capabilities or
facilities. Matters requiring such attention would be identified by
EMBRAPA and studies would be planned jointly by EMBRAPA and the institu-
tion or agencies which would actually do the work.
B. Staffing
4.11      The reorganization of the Brazilian research system provides
EMBRAPA with the opportunity to selectively employ research scientists
from formerly independent research institutes and to reassign them accord-
ing to their abilities and preferences. However, there are not nearly
enough scientists to fulfill the research programs that are envisaged.
EMBRAPA management has anticipated the extent of the recruiting problem
created by the expansion program and is currently undertaking an extensive
in-service training effort to upgrade the staff it already has. At the same
time, university graduates are being selected, employed, and sent on to post-
graduate studies.
4.12      A personnel manual, "Plano de C:rgos e Salarios," has been pre-
pared providing detailed information for employees on policies regulating
salaries; minimum training requirements for specific staff positions; and
comprehensive job descriptions and guidelines for staff selection, evalua-
tion and promotion. Staff positions are basically divided into three cate-
gories: researchers, research support staff, and administrative staff. At
present, overall EMBRAPA salaries compare favorably to salaries paid in
Government institutions and not unfavorably to salaries paid in private
industry. The comparative attractiveness of a given salary, however, varies
according to geographical region. Through annual performance reviews, special
individual achievements can be rewarded by salary increases and promotion,
or both. EMBRAPA's Department of Human Resources is constantly revising
salary policies in order not to lose qualified staff to other employers who
could offer better and more attractive conditions of employment.



- 20 -
4.13      The staff development pattern, based on present staff and anti-
cipated project requirements for each program, is as follows: 40% of total
staff in the first year and 60%, 70%, 80% and 100% during the second to
fifth years, respectively. The staff development pattern has been integrated
with the fellowship program (see Annex 17).
C. Consultant Services
4.14      There is currently in Brazil a shortage of highly trained personnel
for agricultural research leadership and program planning roles. Scarcity
of senior personnel with adequate field experience is particularly acute for
the farming systems program in the semi-arid tropics and for the commodity
programs involving cotton, cassava, rice, beans, rubber, and sheep and goats.
The ambitious in-service training program that is needed during the early
years of project execution would tend to aggravate the personnel problem
during that period. To remedy this, the project would supply 61 man-years
equivalent of consultancy services (one- to three-year contracts) in specific
disciplines and areas of specialization, including one adviser for five years
who would work closely with EMBRAPA's Director of Technology and Science.
In addition, 39.5 man-years of short-term consultancy services (less than one
year) would also be provided. It is expected that the long-term consultants
would make a valuable contribution in helping to develop leadership capabili-
ties and in training; the short-term input by specialists would have special
advantages in the area of research program conceptualization and evaluation,
while providing a link to similar programs at the International Research
Centers.
4.15      In view of the large number of specialists to be hired and the
difficulty of locating competent specialists in many of the specific areas
of expertise listed, EMBRAPA would contract an organization, or organiza-
tions, having specific experience in selecting and administering large
numbers of consultants. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
EMBRAPA would engage such an agency or agencies, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Terms of reference for key specialists are included
in Annex 17.
D. Training and Fellowships Program
4.16      EMBRAPA has estimated its present and future needs for trained man-
power and a scale of priorities for training in different academic areas has
been established, indicating the number of professional staff to be included
in each. The most promising candidates for on-the-job training and for post-
graduate studies are identified, taking into account both EMBRAPA's priorities
and the educational and scientific achievement of the candidates. Legal
contracts between each beneficiary of the fellowships program and EMBRAPA are
signed to make sure that when the trainee completes his studies, he will work



- 21 -
for EMBRAPA a period at least equal to the fellowship study period. An eva-
luation has been made of Brazilian and foreign universities that offer M.Sc.
and Ph.D. degrees, relevant to the training needs of EMBRAPA. These universi-
ties are then contacted and invited to participate in the training program.
The availability of student places at these universities, per academic field,
has also been assessed. Thirteen universities have been classified as suitable
in Brazil, and EMBRAPA has direct contacts with two American universities -
Wisconsin and Purdue - going back to a USAID loan in 1971 (see Annex 17). The
Universities of Wisconsin and Purdue, in turn, can subcontract with other
universities. At present, Brazilians study at 28 United States universities
and at one in Canada. Under the proposed project agreement, however, study
in other countries would also be eligible for Bank financing and would be
encouraged.
4.17      The project would provide for 786 long-term fellowships (123 Ph.D.
degrees and 663 M.Sc. degrees) and 180 short-term fellowships. About one-
fifth of the Ph.D. program would be for studies at Brazilian universities
and the rest abroad, while about four-fifths of the M.Sc. program would be
for studies within Brazil and the rest abroad. The total of 786 long-term
fellowships would include 338 for the training of EMBRAPA staff to work
at research stations in the project area, although not necessarily on the
specific commodity programs included in the project. This has been done
to help ensure a balanced development of staff and research capacity within
EMBRAPA.  During negotiations an assurance was given that EMBRAPA would
employ the services of one or more specialized agencies to help administer
the fellowship programs, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      All commodities included in the project, with the exception of
rubber, are significant sources of income for a great many farmers both
large and small. Additionally, maize, beans, cassava, rice and sheep/goat
meat are important elements of the staple diet of the poorest segment of
the population. Cotton is a major cash crop in the Northeast and its
production absorbs a substantial amount of labor. An analysis of the demand
and supply situation of these commodities shows that, at present, production
does not keep up with the combined effects of population growth and rising
demand. Since farmers do not have the means to carry out their own research,
an expanded official effort in agricultural research on these commodities
is urgently needed, both to improve the socio-economic conditions of the
farmers, and to achieve the objectives of the Government's five-year devel-
opment plan..
5.02      The socio-economic situation of most of the farmers in the project
area is precarious. A Sudene-IBRD/DRC Survey (1973) of the Northeast shows
that the distribution of land is a good proxy for the distribution of capital,
wealth and income among landholders. In the three agro-ecological areas
of the project, about 65% of the farm holdings, or 1.6 million farms, are
of less than 10 ha. The farm population of more than 8 million people on



- 22 -
these farms is living in relative poverty, as defined by the Bank's sector
policy paper on rural development. The per capita income of virtually all
of these families is estimated to be below the relative poverty level, or
US$225 (about one-third total per capita income in Brazil in 1974). The
project is expected to lay the basis for substantial improvements of the
living conditions of this segment of the population. The project would
also benefit up to 400,000 families living on farms in the 11 to 50 ha range.
Most of these families also have incomes below the relative poverty level.
5.03      The potential for improving production is very great since crop
yields in the project area are low compared to those in other Latin American
countries and in other regions of Brazil. Livestock production is similarly
inefficient, and the current extensive use of land and labor is indicative
of the enormous potential for economic and social gains through more inten-
sive use of these resources. In the Campos Cerrados and Amazonia areas,
farming systems are in a rudimentary stage of development. Much practical
knowledge has been developed in various parts of the world with similar
ecological conditions and even in the more advanced regions of Brazil,
but it has not yet been adapted by scientists to the needs and conditions of
farmers in the Northeast, Amazonia, and Campos Cerrados. Agricultural
research is thus vital to open up the land economically and to ensure that
its full potential is realized, especially since these areas represent a
significant part of the world's remaining potential for increased food
production.
5.04      It is impossible to quantify the benefits of this particular
project in precise terms; however, it is evident that an expanded and
effective research program in the project area would serve as an important
catalyst for general development and would have substantial long-term
advantages. There is also abundant evidence from other countries, on the
basis of rates of return to individual crop research programs, and in terms
of aggregate output per hectare, that agricultural research is a sound
national investment, with estimated internal rates of return ranging as
high as 90% (see Annex 18).
5.05      This project would have a major impact on the organization and
philosophy of the Brazilian agricultural research system. The commodity-
oriented, multi-disciplinary team approach to the problems of the region,
concentrating on a few commodities, shows great promise. Many of the
constraints to economic agricultural production, particularly in the North-
east and Central-West, will not be removed until adequate research provides
the new technology that can be used to overcome the basic problems of
plant/soil/moisture relationships and makes available new crop varieties.
The expansion and improvement of farming-systems research, to adapt the
results of research to a broad range of farms in different areas, should
lead to a better overall utilization of available resources. The project
would also help EMBRAPA to consolidate a multiplicity of research stations
and research centers which previously pursued uncoordinated and inadequately
funded research programs and would be an effective device to help integrate
research and extension services to the benefit of a great many individual
farmers. Indirect beneficiaries would ultimately be a major portion of
the population of the project area.



- 23 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would provide the necessary counterpart funds in a manner to assure
timely completion of the project (para 3.11); and that
6.02      EMBRAPA would:
(i)  carry out, simultaneously with the project development,
a required minor upgrading and repair to existing
buildings and facilities for which major civil works are
not planned (para 3.05);
(ii)  prior to submitting disbursement requests for civil works
at research stations, complete the purchase and/or arrange
for the legal rights for use of the land at the respective
stations (para 3.13);
(iii)   maintain adequate project accounts and would provide
the Bank with satisfactory audits within four months
of the end of each fiscal year (para 3.14);
(iv)   maintain, during the project implementation period,
an adequately staffed Technical Support Unit for civil
works and procurement purposes (para 4.02);
(v)   submit to the Bank, for approval, the detailed develop-
ment plan for each station to be financed under the
project before inviting construction bids (para 4.02);
(vi)   provide detailed quarterly reports to the Bank on the
status of project execution (para 4.08);
(vii)   prepare a full review of its structure and research
program administration for discussion with the Bank
by December 31, 1978, and would undertake any revisions
which may be mutually agreed upon after the completion
of the first three years of project execution and
program development (para 4.09); and
(viii)   contract with an agency or agencies, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to engage necessary
consultant services (para 4.15) and to administer the
fellowship programs (para 4.17).
6.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed agricultural research
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$40 million for a
term of 20 years, including five years of grace.
April 15, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        While agricultural output has been increasing at a satisfactory
pace, agriculture's relative share of GNP fell from 19.9% in 1960 to 16.1%
in 1972 (Table 1). Further estimates by the Getulio Vargas Foundation
indicate that this participation fell to 15% in 1973, a trend that can be
explained as being a result of the economic development process, which
brought about the rapid expansion of the industrial and services sectors.
Despite this relative decline of agriculture in GNP formation, however,
the importance of the sector in the national economy has grown considerably,
not only in terms of domestic supply, but also in its competitive position
relative to international trade. In recent years, Brazil's farm sector
grew at an average rate of 6.7% per year. In 1973, according to preliminary
estimates, it accounted for 15% -of total national product and 62% of Brazil's
exports. Farming uses 35% of the total area of the country and 44% of its
economically active population.
2.        Brazil, traditionally an agricultural country, still has massive
potential as a producer of food and raw materials. To date, agriculture
has expanded, primarily by increasing the amount of land in crops, with
only small gains coming from higher productivity. However, because of
regional limitations of climate and soil (para 14), it is becoming increas-
ingly necessary to intensify and diversify farming systems if agriculture
is to continue developing at even its present annual rate of 6.2%.
3.        The recent performance of the farm sector, where production has
grown faster than the population, has ensured equilibrium in domestic
demand, thereby avoiding inflationary pressures. Furthermore, export
surpluses of products such as cotton, soybeans, tobacco, corn, sugar,
juices and oils have served to offset, to some degree, the adverse balance
of payments situation created by increased prices for imported oil, which
were marketed on the international market. To sustain national development
plans and maintain growth rates akin to the industrial and services sectors,
agriculture will have to be restructured and modernized, to achieve high
rates of productivity per unit area. Agricultural research has the basic
mission of generating technology capable of contributing to the steady
upward trend of economic production and social improvements in the rural
sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
II. PRODUCTION FACTORS
Major Agro-ecological Areas
4.        Brazil is rather easily divided into five major agro-ecological
areas, which follow fairly closely the five main geopolitical regions -
North (Amazonia), Northeast (Semi-arid zone), Central-West (Campos Cerrados).
Southeast, and South (Table 2). Emphasis has been on expanding the areas
cultivated in the North and Central-West regions and upon increasing produc-
tivity in the remaining three, but with particular emphasis on the Northeast.
5.        The North occupies more than 3.5 million square km, or approximately
42.1% of national territory, including all of the Brazilian Amazon. This
region is made up of the states of Amazonas, Para and Acre, and the terri-
tories of Amapa, Rondonia and Roraima. Annex 14 provides details.
6.        The Northeast, with 18.2% of national territory, includes the
states of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Alagoas, Bahia and Sergipe, plus the territory of Fernando de Noronha.
Population is 28.1 million, or 30.3% of total population, and population
density is 18.5 per km . Population growth in the 1960-70 decade was esti-
mated at 2.3% per annum. Details are in Annex 12.
7.        With an area of 92.5 thousand km2, the Southeast represents 10.8%
of national territory. It comprises the states of Minas Gerais, Espirito
Santo, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Population is 40.3 million, or 42.7%
2
of total population, and population density is 43.6 per km . Population
growth in the 1960-70 decade was estimated at 2.5% per annum.
8.        The South has an area of 577.7 thousand km2, or 6.8% of the national
territory. It comprises the states of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande
do Sul. Population is 16.7 million, or 17.6% of total population, and popu-
lation density is 28.9 km . Population growth in the 1960-70 decade was 3.4%,
due in part to large-scale immigration into the state of Parana.
9.        The Central-West has an area of 1.87 million km2. or 22.1% of
national territory. It comprises the states of Mato Grosso and Goias.
Population is 5.17 million, or 5.5% of total population, and population
density is 2.7 per km . Population growth in the 1960-70 decade was
estimated at 5.4% per annum. Annex 13 has details.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       A study of the data 1/ for the past decade (1960-70) shows the
following shifts in relative importance of the five areas based on value
of agricultural products:
Relative Change in Agricultural Production
Region           1960           1970
North             1.4            1.5
Northeast        18.0           18.5
Southeast        44.1           37.5
South            30.5           36.0
Central-West      6.0            6.5
Brazil          100.0%         100.0%
The major change in emphasis, from the Southeast to the South, has been due
to a shift in coffee cultivation from the Southeast, because of disease,
and the increasing economic importance of wheat and soybeans in the South.
Nationally the 10 major agricultural crops are, in order of economic impor-
tance, rice, coffee, maize, cotton, sugarcane, beans, cassava, soybeans,
bananas and citrus. The states showing the most significant increases in
agriculture were Parana, Hato Grosso, Goias, Maranhao and Ceara. Further
information on distribution of agricultural product, labor force and pro-
duction indices is provided in Table 3.
Climate
11.       The continental size of Brazil and its location, mainly between
the Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn, determine the climatic variations
leading to a range of different cropping and livestock patterns. Although
tropical farming activities predominate, the regional and subregional dif-
ferences due to climatic features bring about clear distinctions between
the cropping patterns in each of the five main agro-ecological regions.
Minimum and maximum mean annual temperatures (60 and 280C, respectively)
are an indication that most of the national territory lies within the
temperate and hot climates. However, extreme temperatures have been
observed in the subtropical region of Rio Grande do Sul, with a minimum of
-14.10C in Sao Francisco de Paula, and the maximum, 45.80C in the 'Sertao'
or dry interior of Bahia in the Northeast. As for temperature ranges, the
1/   Source:  E1BRAPA:  Program to Strengthen Agricultural Research, Vol. II,
page 19, 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 4
least variation occurs in the low latitudes of the humid tropics (Belem,
Para, with 1.30C variation) and the other extreme in the more southernly
regions, such as Santa Victoria do Palmar, Rio Grande do Sul, with a
temperature spread of 11.60C.
12.       Annual rate of light intensity, an extremely important factor
for agriculture, shows considerable variation between the agro-ecological
regions, as a function of latitude. As an example, Western Santa Catarina
has recorded only 1,600 hours of sunshine per year and northeastern Bahia
a maximum of 3,200 hours.
13.       Huch of Brazil's national territory receives rather abundant
rainfall, with average amounts of precipitat-on exceeding 1,000 mm.
Exceptions to this rule are certain parts of the "sertao" and the semi-
arid regions of the Northeast where precipitation ranges from 500 to 700 mm,
causing periodic failure of crops based on traditional agriculture. In
the more southernly parts of Brazil, despite high rates of annual precipi-
tation, serious problems are caused by the poor distribution of rain: too
rmuch rain falls during the winter months followed by periods of drought
in summer.
Soils
14.       Classification of certain soils, as well as their agricultural
potential, began in the 1930s. This was a pioneering effort by several
soil scientists working in Sao Paulo. Since then, programs to prepare
soil maps for all of Brazil have been intensified and maps have been made
in varying detail for several regions. The first preliminary map of
Brazilian soil types was published in 1966. According to the studies
available, and considering the variables of climate, vegetation, geomorphic
and geologic origin, Brazilian soils are, generally speaking, low in ferti-
lity, rather deficient in exchange bases and show considerable variation
from region to region. From the standpoint of international classifica-
tion, Brazilian soils fall into two large categories: lowland latosols,
which occur primarily in the vast Amazon area, have drainage problems
and are generally low in fertility, and highland types, which occur
primarily on the Brazilian crystalline shield and where the diversity
of bedrock leads to different types of soils, including high fertility
series such as those in northern Parana and in the grasslands of Rio Grande
do Sul. Based on present knowledge, it can be stated that approximately
85% of Brazilian soil types show characteristics which are limiting, to
some degree, for agricultural production. Drainage problems are typical
of many of the soil types of Amazonia, low natural fertility, with poor
moisture retention in some soils of the semi-arid regions of the Northeast,
being illustrative of a few of the problems involved.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       Continued expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontiers no longer
remains a simple matter in the long term, and finite limitations to such
expansion are already evident in some of the more populous areas of the
country. Continued incorporation of new lands also appears to be a ques-
tionable procedure in some areas such as the Amazon basin, for instance,
where detrimental effects to the rather delicate balance of the existing
environment frequently follows the clear.ing of virgin forest.  For this
reason, research efforts to investigate the means whereby increases in yield
per unit area can be achieved take on particular significance for national
development plans for the agricultural sector.
Population Aspects
16.       The population of Brazil, according to the 1970 census, was
94,508,554, spread in varying concentrations throughout the different
geographical regions of the country. This diversification, which is
seen primarily along Brazil's coast, is the result of the difficult
settlement conditions found in the interior of the North and Central-
West. The mountains and the climate combine to limit the penetration
of settlers to the interior plains. However, the settlement of the
lnte.lroof Brazil is now a recognized policy and is bascd on the need
for territorial integration, expansion of the agricultural frontier,
and the search for new mineral resources to further Brazil's industrial
expansion, as well as to feed its increasing population. Table 2
provides information from the 1970 census, showing the area, population
and demographic density of each of the five geographic regions.
17.       The first conclusion drawn from the figures of Table 2 is
that the South and Southeast, which together account for 17.6% of
the national territory, contain 60.3% of Brazil's total population
and also show the highest population density rates. The remaining
39.7% of the population is scattered over more than 7 million square
km, except for a few important urban centers in the North and Northeast.
The North, which has more than 42% of national territory and only 3.9%
of the population, has a population density of only 1.02 inhabitants
2
per km



ANNEX 1
Page 6
III. ROLE OF SELECTED COM4ODITIES IN AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY
18.       Of the nine commodity groups selected for attention under indi-
vidual research programs within the project, four (rice, maize, beans,
cassava) are basic food crops and one is an important export crop, i.e.,
cotton. In the area of livestock, beef and milk cattle, plus sheep and
goats, all seem destined to play an important role in supplying much
needed protein-s to a growing population.  The ninth, rubber, must meet
rapidly increasing domestic demand where, if possible, it could eventually
reduce the heavy import expenses currently being incurred for this commod-
ity (Table 4).
Relative Importance of Selected Crops by Region
19.       Based on value of product (1973) data 1/ we can have some
indication of the current relative importance of each crop in the three
geographical project areas as follows:
(a) Northeast: beans, cassava and cotton all play a leading role,
sheep and goats and rubber (plantation) are in second place,
maize/sorghum and beef cattle in third place, and milk and rice
production in fourth place.
(b) North: only with one crop, rubber, does the North play a
leading role, and this is mainly through the extractive rather
than the plantation rubber industry; however, it is responsible
for 92.1% of national rubber production; in all the remaining
commodities chosen, the North is in fifth place but has great
potential for expansion with rice, beans, cassava, beef cattle
and maize.
(c) Central-West: rice production is in second place nationally
and the region is in third place for milk production, much of
which is actually consumed in the Central-South, the relative
importance of the area for beans, cassava, maize, cotton, sheep
and goats is relatively minor (fourth place nationally), but
the potential for increased production of these commodities
is considerable. (See also Table 5 for details of production
by regions.)
Potential for Future Production of Selected Crops by Region
20.       Just as current production levels are dictated by many factors,
such as climate, soils, infrastructure, technological inputs, credit,
fertilizer, fiscal incentives and availability of labor, the marketing
1/   Source:  Anuario Estatistica Brasileira, IBGE, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
of the commodities can, and does, play a major role in decisions which
influence their production. Broad annual fluctuations in the production
of the principal export and food crops are indicative of this (Table 6).
21.       Taking the above factors into account, however, and in the
light of existing conditions, there would appear to be reasonable
assurances that potential increases of 4 to 7% per annum could be achieved
within the parameters of calculated demand and production potential.
Further, with the exception of rubber, there would appear to be no known
technical constraints, as opposed to market forces, which would prevent
such goals being reached within the five-year period of project execution.
Even so, it is realized that actual goals, and, consequently achievements,
may be, of necessity, amended to reflect the desired levels of economic
and social development of the rural sector influenced by the project.
December 15, 1975



A11JEJX 1
Table 1
B?l ~ZIL;
AGRUICU-llU, REESIP.-CH I PROJECT
Participation o ' Agr-icultural, Product in
Gross National Product of Brp.ii, for the Period 1960-19, 70
Part;l cJ.DpaVon o01
Year           Gross lation.1 Product   Agricultural Product              Agricultura
(Cr,' 000,000.00)          ( Crf000.,000.00 )       Product in  1P (5,1 )
15)6S0                  97,301.8                    19,362.9                    15.9
161                    10J7,51 1 .3                 22.                         21.3
196?                   113,173.3                    22,068.8                    1c
1963            ~~~114,919.i,2L.
1 9cl 6),              I 1 y J 29 1 9 . 12          2 ~n2 5  9                  1 C". '
'jGJi          ~~11  %?23.?                  22,590.2                    1 9.1
1965                  121,510.2                    25638.7                     21.1
1966                   127,710.8 2',49903.6                                     19.5
1567                   1 3,81 814.3                 26_227 .o                   19.6
568                   1h6,284.o                    26,916.2                    1Kb
1569                  159A1t53.9                   28,52.2                     17.9
1970                   1),o 621i.1                  2, 86-i.7                   17. i
19 71                  19L,132-.7                   33, I230.                   17.1
1972                   21),529.2                    3h,539.2                    16.1
So-Lrce:  Iations1 'Accoantzs Center, I.BITE/rPiV.
Decey(mber 15, 1975



B.t AZI L
AG-TRIcULTUT?.A,L IE SEARCH I P[OJECT
Area., Population and Deriographic Density by Geographic Region, 1970
_o  Fur       I  E7 I
Aree               Total Population           RurC  Populotion      Over TotaI   itant s
,Region           f70U                         OO un a                                          Population   Per kM2
;Orth                 3,54L1        b2.0         3,651          3.9         2,001          4.8       5h.8         1.0
Northeast             1 ,52         1 8.2       28e,675        30.3        16, 94         40.1       58.2        18.6
Southeast               919         10.9       140,332         427        10,985         26.4        27.2        43.Y
Central-WJest         1,7379        "2, 2        5,168         5_.5        2,6Th          6.5        51.8         2.8
South                   5612         6.7        16,68L4        17.6        9,24L)        22.2        55.4        29. 7
BRAZIL              8,446        100.0        94,510        100.0       41 ,6oj       100.0        441.o       11.2
Source:  Jlm9a-o T3C-.
December 15, W75



ANNEX 1
TabMa 3
BRAZIL
AGRICJLTIU}tL LREARCH I PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Agricultural Product, Labor Force
and Crop Land, and Indices of Labor Productivity, Land
Productivity, and Land/Iabor Ratio, Brazil, 1969-70
Percentage Distribution of:                 Indices of:
-  Ag-ri-             Average    Average
GDP of     cultural                 Labor       Land     Land/
Agricultural    Labor        Crop     Produc-    Produc-   Labor
Region         Sector        Force        Land     tivity      tivity    Ratio
(1969)       (1970)      (1970)
North              2.06        5.37         1.80        .38      1.14        .34
Northeast         23.01       h3.o5        30.31        *53       .76        .70
East              17.23       14.72        14.34      1.17       1.20        .97
South            51.84        31.61        46.5o      1.64       1.11      1.47
Central-
qest              5.86         5.25         7.05      1.12        .83      1.35
Brazil          100.00       100.00       100.00      1.00       1.00      1.00
Note: R' ion. are defined as follows:
North - Rondonia, Acre, Anazonas, .Roraima, lara, and Ainap
Northeast - Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagaoas, Sergipe, and Bahia
East - Minas Gerais, Espirito Santc, Rio de Janeiro, and Guanabara
South - Sao Paulo, Parana, Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul
Central-West - Mato Grosso, Goias, and Federal District
Source:  Robert L. Thompson, The Metaproduction Function for Brazilian
Agriculture, May 197h.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the agricultural sector (including
crops, livestock, and vegetative extraction) from official national
account data as published in Conjuntura Economica 25(9): 112-114,
Set. 1971. Agricultural labor force and crom land data from:
Fundaqso IBGE, Sinopse Preliminar do Censo Agropecuario - 1570--
Brasil e Unidades de Federacao, Rio de Janeiro, Set. 1973.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Area, Yield and Output of Selected Commodities (Brazil)
(1973)
A.   Crop-1/                         Area          Yield        Output
(TOOO ha)     (kg/ha)       ('000 t)
1. Beans                        3,815            584        2,228
2. Cassava                      2,104        12,623        26,559
3. Maize                        9,908         1,436        14,228
4. Cotton(annual                2,032- '        8413        1 709'
and perennial)              2,347 214  /                  549 /
5. Rice                         4,795         1,495         7,168
6. Rubber                         -              -             28
B.   Livestock=-'               Number of Animals
Population   Slaughtered   Production   Yield
('000 head)   ('OOO head)    ('000 t)    (kg)
5/
7. Dairy Cattle          9,750                       7,211       940o'
6/
8. Beef Cattle         85,000         11,409         2,202       193 6
9. Sheep                25,500         2,250            36        16 6/
6/
10. Goats                16,000         2,000            22        11 -
1/ Source: Annuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1974.
2/ Annual cotton
3/ Perennial cotton.
5/ Source: FAO, Production Yearbook, 1974.
5/ Milk per cow and year.
/ Carcass weight per slaughtered animal.
December 15, 1975



ANIEX 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Area, Yield and Output of Selected Crops by ReRion (1973)
A.  Project Area
Area I - Northeast              Area II - North           Area III - Center-West
Area      Yield     Output      Area       Yield    Output     Area     Yield   Output
('000 ha)  (kg7ha)   ('OOOt)   ('I O ha)  (kg/ha)  ('OO t)  (0OO ha)  (kg/ha) ('000 t)
1. Beans      1,681        517       869         16         904      14        211       594     125
2. Cassava    1,055     11,324    11,947        123      11,398   1,402        107    15,804   1,691
3. Maize      2,199        687      1,511        64         947      61        607     1,564     949
4. Cotton     3,199        276       883          1       1,090       1        224     1,036     232
5. Rice         865      1,300     1,125        108       1,241     134      1,395     1,397   1,949
6. Rubber       -           -           2        -          -        26        -         -       -
B. Other Regions
Area IV - Southeast             Area V - South
Area      Yield     Out ut      Area       Yield    Output
('000 ha) (kg/ha)     '000 t    ('000 ha) (kg/ha)   ('000 t)
1. Beans         339       572       480      1,066         694     740
2. Cassava      291     14,056     4,090        526      14,071   7.401
3. Maize      3,107      1,583      4,918     5,928       1,697   6,666
4. Cotton       66o      1,089        719       293       1,431     419
5. Rice       1,430      1,148     1,642        995       2,328   2,316
6. Rubber       -          -          -         -           -        -
1/ Source: Anuario Estatistico do Bra8il - 1974.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 1
Tabl-e 6
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH I PROJECT
Gross Value of Production of Principal Agricultural Products
1969-19'(2
(in millions of current Cr$)
lg96        1970         1971        1972
Expcrt Products
Coffee               2,039        1,477       3,841          -
Sugarcane            1,242        1,579       1,902        2,357
Soybeans               265          430          795       1,316
Cocoa                  438          376         335          523
Oranges                345          45i         555          744
Co-tton              1,049        1,344       2,111        2,561
Tobacco                250          290         335          464
Crstor Seed            114          130         179          330
Food Crops
Corn                 1,730        2,199        2,706       3,767
Rice                 1,691        2,255        2,568       3,929
Beans                1,060        1,412       l,O42        2,130
Wheat                   bOo         882        1,055         574
Manioc                1,136       1,397        1,796       2,12O
Potatoes               31d          412          455         543
Bananas                 565        '(56         65b        1,033
Source: Minist6rio da Agricultura (EAGRI/SUPLAN).
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICES
A. Introduction
1.        Progress in agricultural services, particularly in research, has
varied greatly over the past century as to regional emphasis and effect
on agricultural production. It is gen7erllY agreed , however, that when
one area is compared to another, research and agricultural education have
been more effective in the South and Southeast than in the Northeast
and North.
B. Agricultural Education Services, Higher Education
2.        Building up the number of institutions and providing agricultural
courses at the university level has been a slow process. By 1973, 40 insti-
tutes offered 57 programs in the agricultural sciences, but most of these
programs had been started in the past 25 years. The majority cover agronomy
or veterinary medicine, although forestry, animal husbandry and fisheries
programs were introduced in the last decade.  Repnrts 1/ indicate that the
quality of instruction given by different institutes varies considerably,
with an overall professor-student ratio of one to seven. This may be
misleading, however, since many professors teach part-time only.
3.        In 1973, 15,090 students were enrolled in the agricultural sciences,
providing a ratio of only 16 to each 100,000 inhabitants, low for a country
so greatly dependent on the agricultural sector. On the other hand, producers
have been slow to employ agricultural science graduates. The Government
employed fully 79% of all professional agriculturalists working in 1973,
i.e., 7,973 out of a total of 10,288. In view of the preponderance of recent
graduates in the total number of professional staff available and the obvious
dominance of the state and federal government as the major employers, it
would seem that the current number of student openings at the undergraduate
level (4,490 in 1973) is more than enough to meet current demand for grad-
uates' services.
4.        Graduate study programs for agricultural sciences started in 1961
and by 1972 there were 29 programs being offered at the MI.Sc. but only
six at the Ph.D. level. MAost popular areas for post-graduate studies are
agricultural economics, plant science, soils and animal husbandry. There
were 454 openings for graduate students in 1972.
1/   Data supplied by EMBRAPA's project preparation unit.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The demand for post-graduate students is still not clearly
defined, particularly in the private sector. During the 15 years such
programs have been in operation, records show that 48.5% stayed on to
teach, an equal percentage went into Government positions, and only 3%
went to private industry. Until greater numbers of post-graduate students
are required in the private sector, it would appear that the number of
openings available for post-graduate study is more than adequate. Table 1
provides information on the relationship between population, enrollment
and number of agricultural estab'Lishments by region.
C. Agricultural Research Services
6.        The development of agricultural research services has gone
through three periods. The first period ran from the late 19th Century
up to the mid-1940s, when plantation agriculture was at its peak, but
there was no defined farm policy to provide clear research objectives at
the federal level. Efforts were largely confined to the major export
crops such as coffee, cacao and sugar, and emphasis was clearly on expand-
ing the agricultural frontiers rather than increasing production per unit
area. This period ended as industrialization began to play a more impor-
tant r C - in c                 - -C -vl -* CJ'.  -At M ^c--d pcrivd Wctll from the mid-1950s
to the mid-1960s when economic expansion of the industrial base was a
clear prerogative and allocation of resources, away from agriculture,
resulted in less support for this sector, particularly its research
institutions. With the gradual withdrawal of support from institutions,
at both the federal and state levels, several went out of existence entirely
and research activity was severely curtailed at others.
7.        The third period, which began in the early 1960s and continues
to the present, is characterized by a broader understanding of the role
of agriculture in the economic development process. It has been recog-
nized that expansion of the agricultural frontier alone cannot continue
to meet demands from both domestic and foreign markets and that higher
productivity per unit area must be part of agricultural policy in the
future. In 1962, the Ministry of Agriculture was reorganized and rural
universities became autonomous. As a result, agricultural education
and research were no longer subordinate to a single administration. The
old National Center for Research and Agricultural Education (CNEPA) was
disbanded and its research duties taken over by the Department of Agri-
cultural Research and Experimentation (DPEA). In 1970, three more
institutes were added and the Department moved from Rio to Brasilia.
The name was changed to Office of Research and Experimentation (EPE),
but in 1971 it became the National Department for Agricultural Research
(DNPEA). This Department again had six divisions and nine regional
research institutes.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        In 1972, a Government group was formed to study agricultural
policy and propose institutional reforms, and, as a result of its
recommendations, the Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(EMBRAPA) was organized late that same year.
9.        The statutes of EMBRAPA are contained in Law No. 5,851 of
December 7, 1972, which outlines the agency's mai  fcto4-ns 1/ as
follows: (a) direct, control and execute agricultural research activ-
ities for the purpose of producing new technology for the development
of national agricultural production; (b) assist the Federal executive
branch, and its entities, in technical and administrative matters related
to the agricultural sector; (c) stimulate and promote the decentralization
of research activities to the benefit of state and local interests; (d)
provide technical coordination of research projects, the execution of
which involves the technical-administrative services of other Federal
agencies, (e) maintain close contact and coordination with the Brazilian
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation (EMBRATER) to
effectively execute diffusion of research results and technology, and
(f) plan, program and budget research activities to reflect the guide-
lines and policies established by the National Commission for Agricul-
tural Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (COMPATER).
D. Agricultural Extension Services (EMBRATER)
Background
10.       Technical assistance and rural extension activities in Brazil
have long been fragmented, with responsibilities spread among several
institutions which, in most cases, provide commodity services in only
selected geographic areas. The most important of these institutions
until mid-1974 was the Brazilian Association of Credit and Rural Technical
Assistance (ABCAR), which was primarily responsible for disseminating
agricultural technology to farmers. ABCAR operated through 23 state
associations (ACARs), and all functioned as non-profit civil corpora-
tions, technically and administratively independent. Five training
centers (Ceara, Pernambuco, Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo and Santa
Catarina) also were part of the ABCAR network, providing basic and
advanced training for technical and auxiliary personnel in the rural
extension services. The ABCAR system, however, proved unsatisfactory
because of several major weaknesses.
1/   Only broad outlines of EMBRAPA's duties and responsibilities in the
areas of research and cooperation with agricultural extension ser-
vices are presented here.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
11.       First, the ability to transfer technology to farmers was impaired
by the weak financial and institutional structure of the extension system, 1/
plus the fact that Brazilian research operations provided virtually no
results that were relevant to the needs of large segments of the farming
sector, especially the small farmers in the Northeast. In any case,
extension activities were generally limited only to those farmers who were
actually receiving credit, the main objective being to assess the credit-
worthiness of the client and to ensure that he undertook the technical
recommendations necessary to make his enterprise a success. Also, coordina-
tion among institutions providing technical assistance in agriculture remained
at a low level, which resulted in an increased per unit cost of providing
such assistance, as well as a waste of scarce trained manpower available
for extension activity because of duplication of effort. Another problem
stemmed from the fact that, although ABCAR was supported by public funds,
it did not interact with other Government institutions. Most technical
assistance agencies lacked long-term planning and objectives, but in the
case of ABCAR, the situation was further complicated when different sponsor-
ing organizations pressured ABCAR into pursuing objectives that did not
contribute to accomplishment of the country's development goals. Further,
overall planning was hampered because of the instability and short-term
nature of the funds provided by the various na-e      -
12.       The Government is now taking positive steps to strengthen the
extension system, and, in an effort to overcome institutional and inter-
institutional impediments, it has assigned full responsibility for technical
assistance and rural extension to the Ministry of Agriculture (MA). Addi-
tionally, in mid-1974, the Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) was created as an autonomous entity within
MA to supersede the ABCAR system. It is headquartered in Brasilia and
has 24 state extension institutions (formerly ACARs), which are now being
legally reestablished as State Extension Companies (EMATERs) under EMBRATER
guidelines. Staff at headquarters and state offices totals 8,318: 4,724
technicians with university degrees in agriculture, veterinary sciences or
home economics and 3,594 administrative personnel. Twenty-three technicians
and 23 administrative workers are stationed at headquarters (Table 2).
EMBRATER intends to expand to a total of 7,000 extensionists within two
years.
13.       The primary functions of EMBRATER are to collaborate with other
agencies of MA to formulate and implement policies pertaining to technical
assistance and rural extension, and to promote, stimulate, and coordinate
technical assistance programs. Centralization of all federal budgetary
allocations for technical assistance and extension gives EMBRATER control
1/   Past investigations have indicated that only 20% of available scientific
information was transferred to farmers. Moreover, a high proportion of
technical assistance flowed only to the larger and more creditworthy
farmers.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
over the state level agencies, which now will have to comply with EMBRATER
regulations if they wish to receive federal monetary support.
14.       In April 1975, "Guidelines for the Operational Structure of
EMBRATER" was published, having been put together by 15 working groups
integrated by interdisciplinarian teams of 155 technicians, representing
49 public and private institutions, plus 15 affiliates of the EMATER system.
The involvement of so many technicians, representing such a wide range of
institutions, reflects EMBRATER's decision to interact with all the insti-
tutions that contribute in some way to successful extension work. Simul-
taneously, this cooperative work is intended to lay the basis for future
collaboration with these entities.
Interinstitutional Relationships of EMBRATER
15.       EMBRATER regards itself as a catalyst for bringing about tech-
nical, economic and social change in the agricultural sector by mobiliz-
ing the respective institutions which must contribute to these efforts.
At the national level, EMBRATER will coordinate its work with agencies
handling research, rural credit, commercialization, rural cooperatives,
the supply industry, education, nutrition, health, and vocational
training.
Relationship between EMBRATER and the Future State Extension Companies
16.       The State Extension Companies will be sufficiently autonomous
in their day-to-day operations to allow flexibility. However, EMBRATER
will exert its influence at three levels:
(a) Political-administrative. Legal norms in the different State
Extension Companies will be equally applied. EMBRATER will
hold a capital share in each of the companies and will
participate in the selection and nomination of the management.
In order to get financing for their projects, contracts between
EMBRATER and the State Companies will have to be signed.
(b)  Planning.  Legal instruments will allow EMBRATER to have a
part in the planning of projects. General goals will be
outlined at the federal level and State Companies will
formulate their projects within this framework.
(c) Operational. EMBRATER headquarters staff will be assigned to
the state affiliates for consulting, orientation and training
purposes.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Relationship between EMBRATER and EMBRAPA
17.       The National Commission of Agricultural Research and Technical
Assistance (COMPATER) has been set up as the coordinating link between
Empresa Brasiliera de Pesqisa Agropecuaria (EMBRAPA) and EMBRATER and will
be responsible at the federal level for synchronizing, reviewing and coor-
dinating programs of both agencies. Members of COMPATER will be one repre-
sentative of the Ministry of Agriculture, as Chairman; the presidents of
JDDAnA a EMIBRAT       one  reprresentat4ve ea^h fro'm the Central Bank, the
National Farmers' Confederation, and the National Agricultural Workers'
Confederation; and two representatives from groups outside the Government.
COMPATER will be jointly financed by EMBRAPA and EMBRATER. Within the two
institutions, the Department of Diffusion of Technology (DDT) of EMBRAPA
and the Department of Technical Support (DTS) of EMBRATER will act as
liaison units. At state level, the representative departments responsible
for diffusion of technology in the two institutions will work together.
The main point of contact between research and extension is intended to
be at the farm level, and extension bulletins (Pacotes Tecnologicos) are
to be prepared as a result of discussions between researchers, farmers
and extension staff.
18.       EMBRATER considers the new focus on projects as the main innova-
tion i-n the Brazilian extcnsion system.  Tn an official doc, ment P-itled,
"Manual for the Elaboration of Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Projects," the following types of projects are covered:
(a) projects to increase productivity and improve living conditions;
(b) indirect production support projects; and
(c) projects to strengthen the extension system.
The way resources are allocated to crops, areas and types of beneficiaries
will indicate EMBRATER's order of priorities.
Production and Distribution of Improved Seed
19.       For the past decade, the Brazilian government has been acutely
aware of the need to produce and distribute improved seeds that would ensure
maximum returns from the application of new technology to agricultural pro-
duction. During the years 1963-69, a National Seed Improvement Plan
(PLANASEM) was put into operation under the auspices of the Miinistry of
Agriculture. On the basis of national priorities, the plan was designed
to provide services to two distinct regions. Because one of the regions,
which combined the south and southeast, had developed a technology that was
already fairly advanced at the farm level, it was given first priority.
Additional funds for implementation of this program in the seven states of



ANNEX 2
Page 7
the south and southeastern area were received under a loan (327/SF-BR) from
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The execution period for this
project, with a total cost of US$25.0 million, was three years (1973-75).
Seed improvement programs for the second project region of the North-Northeast
and Central-West were given less priority because no improved technology had
been applied to agricultural production there in the decade of 1965-74. Start-
ing in 1973-74, funds (US$33.0 million) were made available, from the PROTERRA
program, through SUDENE for seed improvement in the Northeast, and later the
ministry of Agriculture allocated Cr$ 2.5 million (US$358,000) for studies
on rice, potatoes, beans, castor beans, cassava and maize. The Seed Improve-
ment Program for the Central-West began with a (1974) study of the needs in
this area. As a result, a program for seed improvement was devised which
concentrated on seven major crops--rice, cotton, peanuts, beans, maize, soy-
beans and wheat. That program was designed to cover a five-year period of
proejct execution, 1975-79, and it forms an integral part of the Second
National Development Plan (PND II). A similar plan has been developed for
the Northern Region, where activities will be concentrated along the Trans-
Amazonia highway axis. This plan, which is only now becoming operational,
is similar to that for the Central-West but will concentrate on four crops
only, i.e., rice, corn, beans and jute. The basic goal of all these programs
is to make each region somewhat self-sufficient in the production and distri-
bution of improved seed.
20.       EMBRAPA, through its Department of Technology and Science (DTS) is
well aware of the importance of improved seed as an essential link in the
transfer of improved technology to the farmer. EMBRAPA intends to play an
active role in this process by setting up regional and semi-autonomous com-
panies which will take the small quantities of foundation seed stock produced
at the experiment stations and multiply them up to the level of basic seed
stocks, which will then be sold to interested commercial enterprises who, in
turn, will produce the certified seed for farmers. EMBRAPA expects to act
only as a catalyst in this process and will release the companies to full
private enterprise control as soon as they have gained sufficient experience
in quality and cost control techniques, with a production level sufficient
to meet the demands of the region.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
IBRAZ TL
ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH I FROJECT
Population, Agricultural Establishments
and Enrollments in Agricultural Sciences - 1973
Enrollment      Number of       Enrollment
Population    Per 100,000       Farms          ?er i,ori
1970 Census   Inhabitants       1970              Earms
Brazil                 94,508,551         16.0        4,933,367           3.06
North                   3,650,750         14.0          261,692           1.95
Northwest              28,675,081         10.3        2,213,050           1.34
Southeast              40,3 31,969        16.7          930,775           7.?3
South                  165683,,551        27.0        1,2714,589          3.5)4
Central-West            5,167,20 -         7.3          253,26            1.8
Source:  Education in the Agricultural Sciences - Analysis and Recommendations,
DUAA/EC, 1974.
December 15, 1975



8RAZ IL
AGRICULTURAL RESEAtCCH I PROJECT
1MBRATEI
Stnte Extension Ulitics .md Wor.ing Force -
Operational Units                                                                Working Force
States                      No. of    No. of Offices             Total         Agricoltore .nd Livestock                                            Number of Technicians Working at
Villages     at          at       Technicians                                        Home          Other
Attended   Local   Regional                        University   Middle level   Economics   Technicians   Village   Regional   State   Administrative
Level    J,cvel                        Training       Technicians                                    Level       Level      Level       Personnel
RondSnia                                2          8        1             44                17             16             10              I             31          1         12             50
Acre                                    6          7        -             45                15             23              7              -              35         -         10             48
Amzonnas                               34         19        1            104                43             49              4              8              72         1         31            147
Roraima                                 2          6        -             25                 7             10              6              2              23         -          2             26
Para                                   51         71        5            177                62             69             43              3            143         13         21            177
Amapa                                   3          5        -             29                 14             7              5              3              23         _           6            26
Maranhao                              120         65       10            225               110             71             36              8             177        14          34           160
Pi-ui                                  52         46        9             87                49             33              4              1              63         9          15            84
Ceara                                 120         84        9            186               128             21             33              4             127        22          37           187
Rio Grande do Norte                    93         52        4            157                67             56             25              9             104        16          37           120
Paraiba                               140         55        6            151                82             36             33              0             119        12          20           136
Pernambuco                             98         65        4            155                98             37             20             --              98        29          28           204
Alagoas                                46         25         3            73                48              19            -               6              44          3         26             83
Sergipe                                74         28        4            112                58             39              9              6              87          4         21             90
Bahia                                 160         55        10           180                102             35            24             19             138         10         32            130
Minas Gerais                          670        291        13         1,001                561            263           160             17             825        120         56            555
Espirito Santo                         53         44        4            176                112            42              21              1            135         18         23            128
Rio de Juneiro                         54         50        4            175                104             26            42               3            149         11         15            102
Parana                                194        129       13            397                227             81            89              -             298         60         39            279
Santa Catarina                        160        154        22           505                226            152            117             10            440         35          30           287
Rio Grande do Su1                      92         92       10            221                122             12             75             12             179        I(         32            144
Mato Grosso                            76         39         5           176                114             35              6             21             128        17          31           150
Goias                                 112         81        12           250                143             78             23              6             187        29          34           177
Distrito Federal                       16          18        3             50                21             12              6             11              26         3          21             58
EMBRATER Headquarters                  -                     -             23                13              -              1              9             -           -          23            46
TOTAL                              2,428       1,489      152          4,724             2,543          1,222             799            160          3,651        437        636          3,594
_,/  Source:  EMIRAr'ER headquarters.                                                                                                                                                                       -as
December 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR RICE
I. BACKGROUND
A.  Importance of Rice in Agriculture
Rice Production in Brazil
1.        Although Brazil is a big rice producer, its share is only 2.8% of
world production. Major exporters in international trade are: Thailand
with 29.5%, the United States with 26.8%, and Mainland China with 14%. Many
importing countries have become self-sufficient, thus causing international
prices to move toward relative stagnation and Brazil's exports to fall
some 46% in value during the period 1969-1973.
Brazilian Rice Exports - 1969-1973
Year            Quantity in Tons         Value - US$1,000
1969                 70,178                   7,821
1970                 94,745                   6,800
1971                148,829                  11,469
1972                  1,892                     152
1973                 33,422                   4,233
Source: CACEX Information Bulletins.
2.        Rice is one of the five most important products of the agricultural
sector in Brazil. It takes up 13.4% of the farming area, and it is produced
in all Brazilian states. The output is concentrated in certain areas and
seven states produced 88.5% of the rice harvested in 1972. These states are:
Rio Grande do Sul, where irrigated rice accounts for 20.5% of the country
output; Goias, where dryland rice cultivation accounts for 14.9%; Minas
Gerais, which turns out 13.4% of Brazil's output, and where the crop is
also developed under upland conditions; Sao Paulo, also with upland, producing
11.5% and M4aranhao with an output of 10.5% under upland cultivation. Other
rice producing states, of lesser importance, where upland rice is cultivated
are: Mato Grosso with 9% and Parana with 8.7% of national production. In
the Northeast the crop is also one of the most important, occupying 7% of
the region's cultivated area, and contributing approximately 15% to the
national output of rice. The region's principal producing states in 1972
were as follows: Maranhao, 71.8%; Piaui, 8.7%; and Ceara, 2.9%. The rice



ANNEX 3
Page 2
produced in the Northea$t is, for the most part, consumed in the region
itself. The relatively poor quality of the product is the main reason
for the low price it gets on the markets in the South and Southeast
of the country. However, rice culture in the Northeast still offers
major potential for improvements to both output and quality (especially
along the lower Sao Francisco Valley, in the states of Alagoas and Sergipe),
based on lowland rice culture in the flood plains or "varzeas" along the
lower reaches of the river.
Potentials and Constraints
3.        Given both the available land potential - particularly for rice -
and also the relatively low average production, at present (1.3 tons/ha)
the announced goal of 9.4 to 10.0 million tons by 1980 should be readily
attainable by raising the average national yield to 2.0 tons/ha, a modest
goal where the potential for lowland rice is five tons/ha and that of
upland rice, 1.75 tons/ha.
4.        Present constraints are related mainly to use of untested seed
of low yielding unimproved varieties, which also gives rise to low quality
grain. Imports of fertilizer are also low, and soil fertility - particularly
for upland rice in the Central-West, - one of the major producing areas - is
still a severely limiting factor. Lowland (irrigated) rice cultivation
in the Amazon basin is a relatively new technique, and some of the problems
caused by minor element deficiency, particularly sulphur, are only now
being identified and corrected. Even so, the major constraints to produc-
tion continue to be the lack of application of new techniques, rather than
lack of knowledge concerning new technology, which can readily be trans-
ferred from other major rice producing areas and quickly adapted to
Brazilian conditions. Further evidence of the failure to increase unit
area yields is the fact that during the period 1968-73, production increased
by 7.7% and area cultivated by 7.5%.
Demand Outlook
5.        According to the demand estimates based on food consumption research
and population increase, Brazil will require 9,450,000 tons for domestic
consumption by 1980. Add to this the average figure for exports (148.8
thousand tons), and there is an overall potential demand of approximately
9.6 million tons for 1980, even if Brazil only maintains its present position
in world trade. The role of rice production in Brazil's development stra-
tegy would appear to be, first, to maintain its status of self-sufficiency -
at present endangered during poor crop years - and, second, to regain its
export position of the early 1970s or annual exports of at least 150,000
tons.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B. Current Status of Rice Research
Current Research
6.        Rice research is being carried out in all of the states of the
Northeast, under both upland and lowland conditions. The work done on
upland rice is located in the states of Maranhao and Piaui. Work is
also being done on low'land (paddy) rice in the basins of the public
dams (reservoirs), most of which are controlled by the National Department
for Drought Control Facilities (DNOCS), an agency of the Ministry of the
Interior, and along the banks of the Sao Francisco River, mainly in the
state of Sergipe. Various agencies are involved in rice research, such
as: the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE),
the Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company (CODEVASF), the Agricul-
tural Secretariats of the states and by agronomy schools and colleges.
Lack of coordination, however, has resulted in dissipation of the limited
financial, material, and human resources available. In addition to these
problems, lack of continuity in research programs has also been a limiting
factor.
Organization and Personnel
7.        Sixteen institutions have been active in rice research.  The
number of technical personnel at these stations totalled 409 in 1974;
they do not work exclusively on rice research, but are also involved
in teaching activities (schools of agronomy), technical assistance for
irrigated areas (DNOCS), settlement and technical assistance (CODEVASF)
and state agricultural policy planning (agriculture secretariats). Of
the institutions active in the agricultural sector of the Northeast and
East, only EMBRAPA is primarily concerned with agricultural research and
experimentation through the Federal research institutes, Instituto de
Pesquisas Agropecuarias do Nordeste (IPEANE), Instituto de Pesquisas
Agropecuarias do Este (IPEAL), and a state Agricultural Research Institute
(IPA).
Achievements
8.        Most of the research work done concerns spacing, fertilizer
levels, selection of varieties and simple breeding trials. From this
work, significant yields of up to 1,500 kg/ha for dryland rice, with
varieties CICA-4 and IAC-47 have been obtained. With lowland (paddy)
rice culture, yields of 6,200 kh/ha to 7,000 kg/ha have been recorded
with CICA-4 and IR-655 varieties. Unfortunately, these results have,
so far, had only limited application at the farm level, and this has
proved to be the major constraint to improving upon the national average
yield. Research has proved, however, that significant gains can accrue
to unsophisticated applied research methods when technology transfer to
the farmer is not neglected.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
II.  THE NATIONAL RICE RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. Brief Description
Agro-ecological Coverage
9.        Since rice is an important crop in all 26 states, the agro-ecolog-
ical coverage to be given bY the national research program must cover all
five major regions i.e., the North, Northeast, Central-West, Southeast and
South. Currently, the last four regions mentioned are each responsible for
20 to 30% of production, and only 2.5% comes from the North. The potential
for greatly increased production from the latter region is, however, undis-
puted.
Program Goals
10.       The research program will have two main thrusts, and these will be
equally applied to both upland (dryland) and lowland (paddy) rice culture.
The programs will be designed to (a) increase yields per unit area, and (b)
to adapt varieties to conditions of new land areas and to develop cultivation
practices for these areas to permit rational expansion of the area in rice.
Ann"ial -roduction increases of 4.2% are thought to be necessary during the
1976-80 period to maintain Brazil's current position for both domestic and
export markets. Land under rice cultivation is expected to increase to 5.2
million acres by 1980, and this would indicate that varieties capable of
producing average yields of 1,800 to 2,500 kg/ha for upland rice under
commercial conditions must be developed under the program. A goal of
6 tons/ha/year for irrigated rice is also believed to be a reasonable
research goal.
Program Components
11.       In order to achieve the broad goals, as outlined above, the program
would have the following components:
(a) civil works at the National Commodity Center for Rice Research,
Goiania, and also at the state research centers (UEPAEs) of
Bacabal, Penedo, Rondonopolis, and Goiania;
(b) research farm development at the above stations;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at all stations
mentioned above;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship programs;



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental establishment costs of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2, and 3.
B. Detailed Features
Varietal Improvement
12.       Efforts in breeding would be directed toward the developemnt of
high yielding, widely adapted, drought tolerant, fertilizer responsive,
more nutritive varieties resistant to prevailing diseases and insect pests.
In the development of these varieties, the plant pathologist, entomologists,
physiologists, chemists and agronomists would work together with the gene-
ticists and breeders in a team approach. Procedures would primarily involve
recurrent selection techniques with wide-based populations derived from
mixtures of elite germ plasm complexes. Selection would be done in the
areas for which improved varieties are desired and would take into account
those characteristics necessary for either upland or irrigated rice culture.
It is proposed that the breeding program have close coordination with similar
work being carried out at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture
(CIAT) and the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI).
Farming Systems and Cultivation Practices
13.       Work here would include studies related to land preparation, crop
associations, rotations, population density, irrigation, weed control and
harvesting methods.
Soils and Plant Nutrition
14.       This would include studies on major and minor element nutrition
timing, levels of fertilizer application, and economic factors governing
rates of fertilizer application.
Plant Health
15.       Studies on plant health would deal with the major pests and
diseases of rice and screening of new varieties for pest and disease resis-
tance. Also, tests of disease and pest control methods under normal produc-
tion conditions in the rice producing localities of the project area would
be conducted.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Economics
16.       Economists would work closely with the research staff in assess-
ing economic impact of the cultural practices developed from the studies
as noted above. In addition, there would be independent studies concerning
the handling, storage and marketing aspects of the rice crop at all levels
of production.
C. Organization and Management
17.       The national rice research program team would be headquartered
at Goiania, Goias, together with the National Bean Research Program. The
station director would have overall responsibility for administration of
the headquarters station and would represent EMBRAPA for community rela-
tions at the center. He would be assisted by an advisory council 1/ and
three associate directors, one for administrative services, usually func-
tioning as the financial and procurement officer and two for the implemen-
tation of the research programs -- one for rice and one for beans.
l Q.      The associate director fbr research, as team leader/cocrdinator,
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs)
and other cooperating institutions concerned with research on rice and the
application of new technology in rice production would be achieved through
contacts between the team leader and representatives for the appropriate
research at these stations. An annual workshop would be held at which
current activities would be evaluated and plans for the research program
for the coming years would be made. Input from producers would be achieved
through representation at such workshops or field days in the distinct
sub-areas of major production as may be necessary. As a member of the
advisory council, the associate director for research would provide the
necessary liaison between the council and producers.
19.       Two hundred and forty hectares of land would be available at the
National Commodity Center for Rice Research at Goiania; in addition, ade-
quate laboratories and field workshops for the multi-disciplinary team of
researchers would be provided at this main station. These would include
plant physiology, plant pathology, entomology, soils and seed laboratories
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members,
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
example of membership).



ANNEX 3
Page 7
with the necessary equipment and furnishings. Facilities at the satellite
stations or UEPAEs would be as follows: Bacabal, 5 ha of land; Penedo, 5 ha;
Cuiaba, 3 ha, and Goiania, 3 ha. Field laboratories and crop storage facil-
ities, plus additional field equipment for field trial plot establishment both
at the stations and on farmers' fields would also be provided.
Research Station Network and Collaborating Institutions
20.       For the project area, the research station network comprises the
National Commodity Research Center at Goiania, plus the four state stations
(UEPAEs) previously mentioned. In addition, two of the three regional
Agricultural Research Centers -- at Belem, Para, for the North, and Planaltina,
D.F., for the Central-West -- would contribute data on farming systems research
for the principal crops including rice, being cultivated in these specific
agro-ecological areas. Linkages to rice research programs in the South and
Southeast will be through the regional and state-operated systems, yet to
be determined. Collaborating institutions in the Northeast would be repre-
sented by those currently engaged in rice research (para 7), namely, DNOCS,
CODEFASF, and IPA. In the South, there are two institutes in the state of
Sao Paulo and one in Rio Grande do Sul. A complete outline of the proposed
research network is given in Table 4.
D. Staffing
21.       The staff at full development would comprise 64 professionals
and 31 administrative support staff at the National Research Center for Rice,
Goiania, and an additional 30 professional staff and 21 administrative
support staff at the four satellite stations, UEPAEs, under the program.
Existing staff for rice research is estimated to be no more than 10% of
this requirement, and the staff would have to be developed mostly on an
in-service training basis. A detailed staff list is provided in Table 5.
E. Training and Fellowship Program
22.       To overcome the present lack of research workers for the program,
the project would provide for the academic upgrading of 27 professionals
to the M.Sc. degree level and five to the Ph.D. level. Details of this
training component of the project are provided in Table 2. A training
officer has been included in the staff list to assist in the selection of
candidates for the fellowship program.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
F. Consultants
23.       In order to strengthen the core of trained professional staff,
in the short run, the project would provide for 5.5 man-years of consultant
services to be assigned as mutually agreed upon between EMBRAPA and the Bank
(see Table 2 for details).
G. Linkages to International Centers
24.       As has been previously mentioned, the International Research
Centers of CIAT, Colombia and IRRI, the Philippines, can provide a wide
base of existing technology on rice research, including valuable germ plasm
and farming systems methodology, both for upland and irrigated rice. It
would be the responsibility of the program leader/coordinator to establish
contact with these institutions and to develop collaborative programs of
research within the scope of their established outreach programs.
III. COST ESTIMATES
25.       Estimated cost for the National Research Program for Rice for the
five-year period would be approximately US$9.0 million. The estimated costs
are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Rice
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$ '000)
Center           UEPAEsi/              Total
US               U$US
Development Costs
Civil Worksi/                              629               644               1,273
Land Purchase                              153                -  .               153
Laboratot  Equipment-                       2216                                  9
_I E122                                                  176                 298
Furniture-                                  22                22                  44
Research Farm pevelopment/                  50                -                   50
Farm Equipment4/                           100               156                 256
Vehicles5/                                 115               176                 291
Library, Documentatiog and                  75               138                 213
Infonmation Services2./
Technical Services7/
Research Specialists                                                             412.5
Fellowships - long term                                                          596.5
Fellowships - short tenm                                                         105.0
Establishment Cost'                                                            5,292.5
TOTAL                                                                   8,984.5
1/ Four UEPAEs are working with rice.  Since all UEPAEs work with several commodities,
UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are calculated using a
formula which reflects the number of research teams working at differ'ent UEPAEs
with that particular commodity (see Annex 16, Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/ Figure provided by EMBRA PA.
i/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles perUEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
E:/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Rice
Technical Services
Research Specialists                    Long Term       Short Term         Unit Cost               Total
Man-years      Man-years                 (constant 1976 uS$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                                1.5             75,000                112,500
Plant Breeder-Agronomist                    3              1               75,000                300,000
Subtotal                                                                                         412,500
Fellowships 1/                       No. of Participants 1/
Long Term
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 yrs.)                22                              11,000                242,000
M.Sc. abroad (2 yrs.)                    5                              26,000                130,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                1                               16,500                 16,500
Ph.D. abroad (4 yrs.)                   4                               52,000                208,000
Short Term                             15                                7,000                105,000
Subtotal                                                                                         701,500
TOTAL                                                                                 1,114,ooo
1/ Includes fellowships for people working at the UEPAEs.
December 15, 1975
(Dl><



B3RAZ DJ
ACLiC,JILTUE.AL RESEkARCH I 1ROJECT
Research Program for Rice
A. Staff Development Pattern 1/
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost. 2/
------ Project Year --                               Tmotal
1        2                  i
A. Number of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)          15        23        27       30        .38
I.umber of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)               22       34        39        [5        6
F.  Salaries                                          816    1.,?24    1,1428    1,632    2,04.0.5           7,14o.5
Other Operating ExpenEes                          245      367       571       653      8:L6.o          2,652.0
Establishment Cost of the Program 2/            1,061    1,591    1,999    2,285    2A>,6.5             9Z792.5
Current Establishment Cost 3/                     900       900      goo       9oo     9s0.0            4,500.0
incremrental Establishment Cost                   161      691    1,099    1,385    1,956.5            5,292.5
-_---------------- (constant in 1976 US$'000) --------------
1/ Tnc.udes scientists Brorking at the UEPAES.
2/ Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses. Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years a'ad 40% of salaries for years 3 to 5.  (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
-/ ,>rrent establishment cost hes been estimated from global EBERAPA 1975 budget figures ner r-search station.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 3
TablM
BDAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for National Research
Program for Rice
1. Funded by Project
Designated
Name               Designation             State                Role witihin Programl/
Goiania            NCC                     Goias                   I
Bacabal            UEPAE                   Maranhgo               II    III
Penedo             UEPAE                  Alagoas                 II    III
CuiajD:            UEPAE                   M4ato Grosso           II    III
Goiania            UEPAE                   Goias                  II    III
Planaltina         ARC                     D.F.III
Belem              ARC                     Para                   II    ITT
2. Not Funded by Project
Pelotas            UEPAE                   Rio Grande             TI    III
do Sul
Ponta Grosso        UEPAE                  Parana                 TI    ITT
Dourados           UEPAE                   Mato Grosso            IT    III
Cariacica          UEPAE                   Espirito Santo         II    III
Patos              UEPAE                   Minas Gerais           II   ITI
IJberaba            UEPAE                  Minas Gerais           II    III
Rio Branco          UEPAE                  Acre                   TI    ITI
Porto Velho        UEPAE                   Roraima                TI   ITT
3.  Collaborating Institutions
Instituto           Porto Alegre           Rio Grande                     IV
Riograndense do                           do Sul
Arroz
Secretaria de       Sao Luis               Maranhao                       IV
Agricultura do
Maranhao
Instituto           Campinas               Sao Paulo                      IV
Agronomico
Instituto           Sao Paulo              Sao Paulo                      IV
Biologico
1' Tue follo-wing code ajxelie.s tc des- gna4ted research act;>rW    :.
Core Researc'h
= AdaDtive and Adoptl,+ve ;-tesearch
IT T = Far!r1g Systems 3.esearch and Technoliew.  ra-.>, e
T-.  Ccntrt,ct `esearch'



ANNEX 3
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National CommoditY Center for Rice
(Goiania, Goias)
Staffing Level
Senior      Junior       Support         Labor
Station Director                          1            -
Program Direction
Associate Director for
Technical Program                         1             -
Crop Improvement (Rice)                                                           15
Plant Breedert/                           1            2             3
Entomologist                              1            2             3
Plant Pathologist                         1            2             3
Biochemist                                -            1             2
Crop Production                                                                   15
Agronomist                                1            2             3
Soil Scientist                            1            2             3
Weed Control Specialist                   -             1            3
Seed Production                           -            1             2
Agricultural Engineer                     -            1             3
Irrigation Specialist                     -            1             2
Technical Services                                                                50-
Economist                                 1            1             1
Library and Information                   -             1            2
Technology Diffusion                      -            1             2
Training Officer                          -            1             2
Station Manager                                        1             2
TOTAL                            C            20            36           80
Administrative Servicesi/
Associate Director
(Administrative Officer)                1             -             -             -
Finance Officer                           -             1            4             -
Personnel Officer                         -             1            3             _
Purchasing Officer                        -            1             4             _
Security Officer                          -             1            -             4
Repair and Maintenance                    -            1             2            10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                        10
Secretaries (Acdmiinistrative)                                       2
TOTAL                            1             5            25           1)
1/ Associate Director may also provide services as plant breeder for program.
2/ Includes 40 for general station operations.
3/  Since administrative staff services both the bean and rice research program,
-   th  eomtm in thM-  'eet  e 'l-idel b"tweer, these two programs.
December 15, 1975



AN4NEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONiAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR BEANS
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Beans in Agriculture
1.        Brazil's bean production, at 2.2 million tons, is 20% of world
production and represents 6.35% of that portion of GNP derived from the
agricultural sector. Even so, Brazil fluctuates between the roles of net
importer to net exporter of edible beans. Species of two main genera
(Phaseolus and Vigna spp) 1/ are cultivated on 3.8 million ha; 44% of the
crop is produced in the Northeast; 28% in the South; 22% in the Southeast;
5.5% in the Central-West and only 0.5% in the North. Beans play an
important role in the Brazilian diet because of their high protein value
of approximately 20%.
-Productl4o" Pe'rfomac
2.        During the period 1960-71, there was a 3.8% increase in the
area under bean cultivation, but output did not respond accordingly and
by 1967 was stagnant for the remainder of the period under review. Many
factors contributed to this result, but the main reasons would appear to
be lack of certified seed, poor cultivation practices and lack of proper
incentives due to poor marketing facilities. The 1973 statistics show
production of 2,228,940 tons from 3,814,662 ha for an average production of
584 kg/ha. Average production for the states of Rondonia, Acre and
Amazonas, however, where Vigna _p*p are grown, showed annual yields of
approximately 1,000 kg/ha. High annual yields from Vigna spp reflect the
raising of two to three crops per year under conditions of the humid tropics.
Potentials and Constraints
3.        Per capita consumption is fairly stable at 26.0 kg/year but, as
the population drifts to the cities, this would tend to decrease somewhat
as there is evidence of negative demand elasticity as per capita income
increases in the urban sector. Based on population growth alone, however,
there would be an average internal demand increase of 3% per year, or an
additional 96,000 tons above the consumption figure of 2,500,000 tons in
1970. Taking into account shifts in demand preference, however, it is
1/   Throughout the report, only Phaseolus spp and Vigna spp are considered,
and the soybean (Glycine Max) is not included.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
estimated that annual increases of 2.7% in production would satisfy
Brazilian needs. In addition, the export demand remains strong and the
role of beans as a potential export crop, as they were during the period
1967-70, should not be forgotten. Domestic demand for 1973 was 3.2
million tons, while production was 2.2 million tons, giving a deficit
of one million tons. Demand for beans in Brazil in 1980 may well
reach 3,331,310 tons. The actual export demand for edible beans is
difficult to quantify, but potential exports of an additional 10%
(330,000 tons) seem a conservative estImat-  -ar -wuld also act as a
buffer stock against fluctuations in internal production and demand.
Role in Development Strategy
4.        First priority for increased production of beans is the goal of
self-sufficiency, or an increase of 50% to cover domestic needs, by 1980.
Of the two methods available for achieving increased production, i.e.,
increase cultivated area (by 1.9 million ha) or increase yield per unit
area, to 800 kg/ha - the latter alternative would be much more logical in
this case, since beans are cultivated in conjunction with corn or cotton
and both these crops show certain limitations to any comparable increase
in area under cultivation. The yield increase, of 37% over five years, is
high, but not unduly so when it is considered that several important bean
growing areas in the states of Para, Sergipe, Parana and Santa Catarina,
Rio Grande do Sul and Mato Grosso have already reached and surpassed this
goal. In view of the low level of current research on beans, particularly
Vigna spp, the increase of average yields to 800 kg/ha seems entirely
feasible. The gradual increase of 10% in the area cultivated over the
same period would not only lead to self-sufficiency, but allow for a small
export market.
B. Current Status of Bean Research
5.        In the north (Amazonia), research work on Phaseolus has been
carried out by research institutes in the states of Amapa, Acre and Roraima,
while work on cowpea, mainly fertilizer use, has been done in the State
of Para. Bean research in the Northeast has been quite widespread and
has been concentrated mainly on Phaseolus spp. Records 1/ show numerous
experiments at over 20 sites in all nine states of the region, concentrat-
ing on soil fertility, genetic improvement, plant protection and irrigation.
Average bean yields from the region, however, would seem to indicate that
new technology developed by the experiments either did not reach, or was
not financially viable for use by the producers to any significant degree.
1/   Source:  Reorganization of Research Resources in the Northeast
UFCE/CEPAS/SUDENE - 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
In the Central-West, research has been much more limited and confined
to variety trials and cultivation practices in the states of Goias
and Mato Grosso.  In the Southeast, the states of Minas Gerais and Rio de
Janeiro have indicated work done on variety selection and breeding,
fertilizer use and production systems. Average yields for other states,
however, are still relatively low. In the South, the states of Rio
Grande do Sul and Parana have done considerable research on breeding,
disease resistance, weed control, virus studies, production systems and
trials with competing varieties and both show considerable increases in
production as a result. The main reason why findings of this research
have not received greater acceptance by growers, particularly small
farmers, is that beans are traditionally used as a catch crop combined
with maize, cotton or cassava culture. The higher yielding varieties
which have been developed must be grown intensively, with adequate
fertilizer and pest control methods, as a monoculture, as in the case
of soybeans. Also, because of low prices, farmers have been reluctant
to risk using other than traditional systems of production.
II. NATIONAL BEAN PROGRAM
A. General Description
6.        The national program for research on beans is designed to pro-
vide a new technology which would stimulate bean production in the main
growing areas of the Northeast, Southeast and South. Assistance would
also be given to the Central-West and North regions, which, although
of lesser importance, show considerable potential for the future as
population moves into these regions.
Objectives and Production Goals
7.        The main objective of the research program would be to provide
the technology essential to bring about the increases in production necessary
to maintain at least self-sufficiency in bean production, as indicated in
paragraph 4. Mlost of the beans are produced, for direct human consumption,
on small plots cultivated by small scale farmers and their families. In
Brazil, 80% are planted in association with other crops such as corn,
cotton, and cassava. Planting is done manually and virus diseases are very
common and cause the greatest losses. The crop is often subjected to varying
degrees of drought and flooding. Use of improved seed is rare, use of ferti-
lizer and other inputs is uncommon, and prices fluctuate considerably due
to lack of adequate marketing arrangements, pricing policies and storage
facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
8.        The major production objectives of the program must be achieved
through wider use of technology by small farmers. The function of the
research program at the National Commodity Center (NCC) would be to
improve yield capacity and biological efficiency of varieties and to
develop appropriate agronomic practices for their maximum production in
different ecological situations. It would also involve the development
of technological packages and their application in close collaboration
with the state micro-regional research and production teams (UEPAEs).
This would be backstopped by production-oriented research carried out
at the commodity centers, to ensure that, by means of demonstration and
close cooperation at the farm level, the new techniques developed are put
into practice.
Program Components
9.        In order to achieve the broad goals, as outlined above, the
program would comprise the following components:
(a) civil works at the National Commodity Center for Bean Research,
Goiania, and also at the state research centers (UEPAEs) of
Teresina, Caico, Alagoinha, Irece, Barreiras, Manaus and
Altamira;
(b) research farm development at the above stations;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at all stations
mentioned above;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental establishment costs of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2, and 3.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
3. Detailed Features
10.       The first step in the research program would be a survey to
determine the biological and economic factors most limiting to production
in the ecological areas to be covered. This would more clearly define the
research priorities and other activities or modifications required to
attain the above objective. Although certain regional adjustments may
be needed after this survey, the research program, based on current
knowledge, would be concerned mainly with the activities and procedures
discussed below.
Varietal Improvement
11.       Considering the high losses now, due to insect pests, viruses,
and other diseases, the development of high yielding, highly stable disease-
and insect-resistant varieties would receive major emphasis. This research
activity would involve the identification of basic breeding materials with
high yield capacity and with as many desirable attributes as possible for
adaptation in the bean production macro-regions. Once the best materials
for each area were identified, populations would be formed with these
materials, heterogeneous for such desirable characters as yield, disease,
and insect resistance, through special multinle cross-breeding techniques.
Advanced segregated generations of these populations would be grown,
preferably in areas where there was an exceptionally high percentage of
natural cross pollination among plants provided by certain insects. Seed
of populations grown in these environments, consisting of a wide mixture
of genotypes, would then be planted in each of the areas for which improved
varieties are desired, and the most adapted plants with desired attributes
would be mass selected.  Seed of the selected plants would be mixed and
again planted in the environment where a high incidence of natural hybridiza-
tion occurs, and the resulting population then returned to the area in which
previous selections were made for further mass selection. Repetition of
this process would provide for a gradual concentration of desirable attri-
butes and could be continued for as many cycles as needed to establish the
variety. Within this procedure, the resulting variety would continue to
be a mixture of genotypes and might be further selected at the micro-
regional level by the UEPAE teams in collaboration with the farmers of
the regions. The formation and distribuLon of genetically pure varieties
should be avoided in the tropics because, with these kinds of varieties,
it is virtually impossible to maintain disease resistance for any length
of time.
Farming Systems and Agronomic Practices
12.       Production systems and agronomic practices would vary according
to location, and much of the research would have to be done at the micro-
regional level in collaboration with farmers. Research in these two



ANNEX 4
Page 6
aspects would involve studies with weed control, planting densities,
planting dates, and various cropping patterns, including interplantings
and multiple cropping. It would also involve the identification of the
kinds of varieties needed to permit the use of the most useful regional
cropping system evolved for farmer use at various levels of production,
i.e., small farmer to large grower.
Economic Research on Production Costs and Marketing
13.       Research in economics would be conducted to determine the cost
of production in various systems (input cost-product price relationships)
and to identify and solve marketing problems in the various regions of
production, including seasonal storage as may be necessary.
C. Organization and Management
14.       The national bean research program team would be headquartered
at Goiania, Goias. The station director would have overall responsibility
for administraton of the headquarters station and would represent EMBRAPA
for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an advisory
council 1/ and three associate directors, one for administrative services,
usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and two for
the technical implementation of the research programs --- one for beans
and one for rice.
15.       The associate director for research, as team leader/coordinator,
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program,
and would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs)
and other cooperating institutions concerned with research on beans and
the application of new technology in bean production would be achieved
through contacts between the team leader and representatives for the
appropriate research programs at these stations. An annual workshop
would be held at which current activities would be evaluated and plans for
the research program for the coming years would be made. Input from pro-
ducers would be achieved through representation at such workshops, or
field days, in the distinct sub-areas of major production as may be
necessary. As a member of the advisory council, the associate director
for research would provide the necessary liaison between the council and
producers (see Annex 17 for broad discussion of Organization and Management).
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members,
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
example of membership).



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Research Facilities
16.       Full laboratory and field research facilities would be located
at Goiania where 150 ha of land are available. Limited laboratory facil-
ities for farming systems and field demonstration plots would be made avail-
able at the following UEPAEs, with land areas available for bean research, as
noted, in the Northeast: Teresina (Phaseolus), 5 ha; Caico (Vigna), 5 ha;
Alagoinha (Phaseolus), 3 ha; Irece (Phaseolus), 5 ha; Barreiras (Phaseolus),
3 ha; and in the North: Manaus (Vigna), 5 ha, and Altamira (Vigna), 3 ha for
trials. Personnel may be seconded to these UEPAEs by the national program as
needed. The research network for the national program is shown in Table 4.
University Contract Research
17.       As with other national commodity programs, university contract
research would be requested through EMBRAPA headquarters, Brasilia (see
Annex 17). Rather than accept programs presented by the universities, the
plan should be to request university participation as and when needed and
confine the requests to carefully selected areas of research where answers
are needed for clearly defined problems of a basic nature and where specific
laboratory facilities and discipline-oriented inputs are more readily
available and can, at the same time, provide graduate study for university
educational programs. Care would always be required, however, to see
that duplication of effort is avoided and that specific problems related
to the current research programs are given national rather than regional
importance.
D. Staffing
Staff Requirements
18.       The staff of the national bean program as proposed, at full
development, would be as indicated in Table 5. There would be 64 profes-
sional staff assigned to the headquarters center at Goiania. This
includes some junior and supporting staff to be assigned to certain
outlying stations in the station network. In addition, there would be
39 professional staff and 27 administrative support staff at the UEPAEs
mentioned in paragraph 16.
Present Staff
19.       There are very few experienced bean workers in Brazil, and, as
in the case of the other commodities, the staff would have to be upgraded
largely on an in-service-training basis to fulfill the requirements of the
research program.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
E. Training and Fellowship Program
20.       The project would provide scholarship funds to train five staff
members to the Ph.D. degree level and 23 to the M.Sc. level and it would
also support in-service short courses for 14 participants selected from
the program for training in specific areas. In addition to degree train-
ing, major emphasis would be on in-service training of inexperienced young
men with B.S. degrees. As in other commodity programs, a training officer
has been included in the staffing pattern.  Insofar as possible, the
young staff members in the in-service training programs would work as
research assistants with more experienced staff members. Candidates for
short courses and M.Sc. training would be selected from the group that
has demonstrated interest and special competence in the national program
(see Table 2 for details).
F. Consultants
21.       The project would provide for three man-years of long-term and
one man-year of short-term consultancy services in the area of plant breed-
ing. In addition, 18 man-months would be provided for program evaluation
services (see Table 2 for details).
G. Linkages to International Centers
22.       Linkages with CIAT in Colombia and IITA in Nigeria would be
established through cooperative programs in the screening and evaluation
of materials. There are 10,371 collections of Phaseolus in the CIAT bean
bank and appoximately that many collections of Vigna in IITA. Cooperative
breeding programs would also be established where desirable and feasible.
Staff members would be sent to these institutions for in-service training
and short courses where indicated.
III. COST ESTIMATES
23.       The cost for the National Research Program for Beans for the
5-year period would be approximately US$9.2 million. The estimated costs
are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



A1zx ~4
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Beans
Project Cost
(constant 1976us$ 1000)
Center        UEPAEsl'           Total
US$             US$                w
Development Costs
Civil WorksJ/                            629            1,073            1,702
Land Purchase        2/                  31                -                 34
Laborato rf/Equipment_                    122              293             415
Furniture_                                 22               36               58
Research ?'arm DevelopmentV                50              -                 50
Fanm Equipmenth/                          100              260              360
Vehicles5/                                100              294              394
Library, Documentatiog and
Information Serviceso/                    75              230             3C5
Technical Services7/
Research Specialists                                                       412.5
Fellowships - long term                                                     552.5
Fellowships - short term                                                     98.0
Establishment Cost-/                                                      ,864.0
TOTAL                                                            9,245.0
1/  Seven UEPAEs are working with beans.  Since all UEPAEs work with several
commodities, UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are
calculated using a formula which reflects the number of research teams
working at different UEPAEs with that particular commodity (see Annex 16,
Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/ Figure provided by EBRAPA.
i/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
:/  Per station:  two farm trucks and one large and one small bus.  Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
8/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



B3RAZTL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Beans
Technical Services
Research Specialists                     Long Term      Short Term          Unit Cost                Total
Man-years     Man-years                  (constant 1976 us$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                  -            1.5                75,000              112,500
Plant Breeder-Agronomist                    3             1                  75,000              300,000
Subtotal                                                                                         412,500
Fellowships  1/                       No. of Participants  1/
Long Term
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 yrs.)                18                               11,000               198,000
M.Sc. abroad (2 yrs.)                    5                               26,000               130,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                 1                               16,500                16,500
Ph.D. abroad (4 yrs.)                    4                               52,000               208,000
Short Term                              14                                7,000                98,000
Subtotal                                                                                         650,500
TOTAL                                                                                1,063,000
1/  Includes fellowships for people working at the UEPAEs.                                                         dD >
December 15, 1975                                                                                                     4:



ERAEL
AGRICUITURAL RESE.RCH I FROJECT
Research Progratii for Beans
A.  Staff Devrelopment Pattern  1/
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost  2/
------------- Project Year -       -        -          Total
1        2         3
A.  Number oF Senior Scienrtists (Ph.D., M,Sc.)        17         5        29        3)        42
.*umber of Junior Scientists (E.Sc.)              2)4       37         43 1X9             61
.  Salaries                                          780    1,171    1,366    1,561    1,951                 6,829
Other, Operating ExDerises                        234      3t,l      546       624       780      2,535
Establishment Ccst of the Program 2/'           1   4    la5-.2    1,012    2,185    2,731                 9,364
Current Establishment Cost 3/                     900       900      900       900       900        1      4,500
Incremental Establishment C^.ost                  121      622    1,012    1,285    1,831          1i,864
------------------ (Constant in 1976 US$'000)
1/ Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2' Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and speciific salaries for different 3taff categories.  Cther operating exDenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for years 3 to 5.  (See
establislhlment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
?/ Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX i
Table h
ERAZIL
ACRICTJLTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for National Research
Prcgram for Beans
1. Funded by Project
Designated       1/
Name                Designation             State             Role within Program
Goiania                 NCC                      Goias               I      II    III
Teresina                UEPAE                    Piaui                      II    III
Caico                   UEPAE                    Rio Grande                 II    III
do Norte
Alagoinha               UEPAE                    Paraiba                    II    III
Irece                   UEPAE                   Bahia                      II    III
Barreiras               UEPAE                    Bahia                      II    III
Manaus                  UEPAE                    Para                       II    III
Altamira                UEPAE                    Para                       II    III
2. Not Funded by Project
Ponta Grossa            UEPAE                    Parana                     II    III
Dourados                UEPAE                    Mato Grosso                II    III
Cariciacica             UEPAE                    Espirito Santo             II    III
Uberaba                 UEPAE                    iinas Gerais               II    III
Rio Branco              UEPAE                    Acre                       II    III
Patos                   UEPAE                    Mlinas Gerais              II    III
3. Collaborating Institutions
Universidade Federal
de Pelotas            Pelotas                 Rio Grande do Sul                       IV
Instituto de Agro-
nomia do Parana       Londrina                Parana                                  IV
Instituto Agronomico   Campinas                 Sao Paulo                               IV
Escola Superior de
kgricultura            Lavras                  Mtinas Gerais                           IV
Escola Superior de
Agricultura "Luiz
de Queiroz"          Piracicaba              Sgo Paulo                               IV
Universidade Federal
de Vigosa             Vigosa                   Minas Gerais                           IV
Universidade Federal
de Ceara              Fortaleza                Ceara                                  IV
Instituto de Pesquisas
Agronomicas           Recife                   Pernambuco                              IV
IPAGRO - Rio
Grande do Sul                                 Rio Grande do Sul                        IV
Centro Tecnico
Alimentar              Rio de Janeiro           Rio de Janeiro                          IV
1/  The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Research;  II = Adaptive and Adoptive Research;  III = Farming Systems
Research and Technology Transfer; IV = Contract Research.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEAFCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Beans
Staffing Level
Senior     Junior      Support        Labor
Center Director                           1           -            -           -
Program Direction
Associate Director for
Research Program                          1            _     -                 -
Crop Improvement                                                              15
Plant Breeder                             2           2            3
Entomologist                              1           2            3
Plant Pathologist                         1           2            3
Biochemist                                -           1            2
Crop Production
Agronomist                                1            2           3
Soil Scientist                            1           2            3
Weed Control Specialist                   -            1           3
Seed Production                           -           1            2
Agricultural Engineer                     -            1           3
Irrigation Specialist                     -            1           2
Technical Services                                                            50 1/
Economist                                 -            1           1
L,ibrary and Information                  -            1           2
Technology Diffusion                      -            1           2
Training Officer                          -            1           2
Station Manager                           -            1           2
Total                               8          20          36           80
Administrative Services 2/
Associate Director -
Administrative Services                  1            -           -            -
Finance Officer                           _            1                        -
Personnel Officer                         -            1           3           -
Purchasing Officer                        -            1           4            -
Security Officer                          -            1           -           4
Repair and Maintenance                    -            1           2          10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                      10
Secretaries (sdministrative)                                       2
Total                               1           5          25           14
1/ Includes 40 for general station operations.
7/ 50% of costs for administrative services would be charged to the National
Commodity Program for Rice, which is to be located at the same center.
December 15, 1975



ANIEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR MAIZE/SORGHUM 1/
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  Importance of Cron in Agriculture
1.        Maize is the principal grain crop in Brazil.  Production in
1974 was 16 million tons on 12 million ha. Eighty-three percent was
produced in the Southern and Southeastern region; about 12% was produced
in the Northeast, 0.5% in the North (Amazonia), and the remainder, about 5%,
in the Central-West (Campos Cerrados). Average yields per hectare are
low, about 1,350 kg. Unit area yields vary from region to region, from
a low of 800 kg/ha in the Northeast to about 1,500 kg/ha in the South
and Southeast. The low average productivity in general is primarily a
consequence of low soil fertility. Fertilizers and other soil improving
inputs are used in varying degrees on only about 16% of the total acreage.
Annual increases in production in the past have come from expansion of
area planted.
2.        Low soil fertility presents the major constraints to the accelera-
tion of unit area yields. Varieties in general are good, due to a successful,
dynamic breeding program, but only a small part of the yield capacity of
these varieties is now being realized because of generally low soil produc-
tivity. Unit area yields could easily be doubled through an economic solu-
tion to the soil fertility problem. Research leading to an improvement
in soil fertility and agronomic practices would have first priority in the
new national maize program.
3.        It is estimated that, by 1980, 21 million tons of maize will be
needed to meet local and export demands. To meet such a demand, an annual
average production increase of 5.2% would have to be sustained for the
decade. Presently, about 17% of Brazil's total production is exported to
Italy, Spain and Japan. In the Northeast alone, if local demands of maize
for food and feed are to be met, annual production will have to be increased
by 550,000 tons by 1980. This is about 35% more maize than is now being
produced in the area.
1/   Currently, millet is not included in EMBRAPA's approved program of
research. However, there is increasing interest in the crop and it
is expected that it will soon be included as a commodity in this
combined program.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        So far, sorghum has had only limited acceptance in Brazil.
Production is now concentrated in the South, where varieties introduced
from temperate areas are fairly well adapted. According to research
underway, sorghum has a good potential in the Northeast (agreste area).
Primary estimates indicate that sorghum production could reach 684,000
tons by 1980, and could be a substitute for maize as an animal feed.
Early results with sorghum trials in the Central-West (Campos Cerrados)
area indicate a high tolerance of some varieties to aluminum toxicity.
However, a gret deal of research work is needed with both varieties
and cultural practices before this region can be considered as one with
a high potential for sorghum production.
5.        Millet is generally unknown in Brazil.  It is widely grown as
a food crop in South Asia in relatively hot dry areas and could become
a useful crop in certain areas of the Northeast, especially where the
rainy season is very short. Research workers in India at the Interna-
tional Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT),
Hyderbad have developed some excellent varieties that should be tested
in Brazil. Some of these might be sufficiently well adapted for immediate
use in various cropping systems in hot, arid areas of the Northeast.
B. Current Status of Maize/Sorghum Research
Current Research
6.        Brazil's maize breeding program is one of the most dynamic in all
of Latin America. Highly productive varieties are now available for the
Southern and Southeast regions where over 80% of the 16 million tons of
maize are produced. It is estimated that over 50% of the total maize
planted in these two areas is planted with high yielding hybrids, developed
from a combination of local and exotic materials. Most of the remaining
area is planted with improved open pollinated varieties derived largely
through recurrent selection within exotic mixtures. Most of the seed is
produced by private seed companies or farmers' seed associations.
7.        In the North, Northeast and Central-West (Campos Cerrados) regions,
varietal improvement programs have only recently been initiated. An excel-
lent cooperative breeding program between the Institute of Genetics at
Piracicaba (Sao Paulo) and the Secretariat of Agriculture in Pernambuco
is underway in the Northeast. This program is primarily concerned with the
development of high yielding open-pollinated varieties for the different
climatic situations in the Northeast through recurrent selection within
wide-based populations consisting of various mixtures of elite tropical
materials. Considerable progress has been made and several high yielding
open pollinated varieties are now available for the Mata and Agreste areas
and for production under irrigation along the Sao Francisco river. Seed



ANNEX 5
Page 3
is being produced and distributed by SUDENE (Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast). This cooperative breeding and seed
production program will continue to be promoted and further expanded
through the National Maize Program headquartered at Sete Lagoas.
8.        Research with maize in the Amazon area has largely been limited
to testing tropical varieties developed elsewhere. Many of the elite
tropical varieties, developed by CIMMYT (International Center for the
Improvement of Corn and Wheat) in cooperation with interested countries,
are adapted to the Amazonia region and could be made immediately avail-
able for commercial production. So far, little effort has been made
in the formation of varieties well adapted to acid soils of this region.
However, the prospects for developing such varieties are good.
9.        As previously mentioned, the major constraint to the acceleration
of maize production in Brazil today is not varieties, but mainly low soil
fertility combined with outmoded traditional agronomic practices. More
research is needed in the improvement of soil fertility and cultural
practices throughout Brazil, if highly productive technological packages
are to be made available to farmers and unit area yields increased. Very
little is now known about fertilizer requirements, population densities
and production systems for maize in the different maize producing area
of Brazil.
10.       Sorghum is a new grain crop for Brazil with excellent potential.
Research in the production of this crop is just getting underway and, with
the exception of the Northeast, is primarily concerned with screening exist-
ing varieties to identify materials useful in breeding programs or for
immediate commercial production. In the Northeast, the cooperative sorghum
breeding and production program between the state of Pernambuco and the
Ford Foundation has made excellent progress, and has clearly demonstrated
the potential value of this crop for areas with limited and poorly dis-
tributed rainfall. No research with millet is presently underway in
Brazil but, based on the performance of this crop in other arid areas
of the world, its value in arid areas of the Northeast ought to be
determined.
Present Research Station Network
11.       Maize breeding work was started by the Instituto Agronomico at
Campinas and the University of Vicosa in the early 1940s. The work at
Vicosa was largely taken over by Sementes Agroceres S.A. when it was
organized as a private seed company. Agroceres has done an outstanding
job in the development of hybrids for South and Southeast Brazil and
last year produced 2,500 tons of seed. However, simultaneously with
this important effort, the Instituto Agronomico at Campinas was developed
to serve as the main breeding center until about 1960. Since then, how-
ever, the Genetics Institute at Piracicaba has become the leading center



ANNEX 5
Page 4
for research in breeding and the development of corn breeders. The work
of the institutions at Campinas and Piracicaba has, from time to time,
been supplemented by individuals at certain other state and federal
institutions in Minas Gerais, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul.
Research Personnel
12.       There are only five highly experienced maize breeder-agronomists
in Brazil: namely, one in the Genetics Institute at Paracicaba, one in
the Instituto Agronomico at Campinas, one in the University of Campinas,
one in Agroceres, and one in Cargill Seed Company at Campinas. In
addition to these five, an outstanding M.Sc. graduate in maize breeding
was recently named as leader/coordinator of the national maize program.
In sorghum, there are two outstanding young men: one is an expatriate
with a Ph.D. degree provided by the Ford Foundation, and another, a
Brazilian with an M.Sc. degree, who has been named head of the national
sorghum program. There is no one presently in Brazil with experience
in millets. In addition to the experts mentioned above, there are about
150 junior and graduate level personnel engaged in specific projects
concerning maize/sorghum research working with the above leaders and
certain researchers at other institutions.
Research Achievements
13.       In spite of the outstanding accomplishments in breeding and wide
spread usage of improved varieties, unit area yields have not significantly
improved during the last 10 years. In the absence of well organized pro-
grams for the improvements of soil fertility and agronomic practices,
these varieties have made little impact. Increase in total production is
primarily due to an expansion of the area planted.
II. NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR MAIZE/SORGHUM
A. General Description
Northeast
14.       Major concentraton would be on multi-disciplinary research leading
to a greater efficiency of maize, sorghum and millet production in the North-
east, in collaboration with the Regional Research Center at Petrolina and with
indicated state research institutions, or UEPAEs, operated directly by EMBRAPA.
Research in maize will be aimed primarily at the development and utilization of
higher yielding, more nutritive, biologically efficient varieties, improved
cultural practices and more efficient production systems for the improvement
of income and general welfare of the small subsistence or semi-commercial



ANNEX 5
Page 5
farmers concentrated in the more humid, coastal areas. Research with
sorghums and millets will be focused mainly on the development and
utilization of high yielding, disease-resistant varieties and cropping
systems for a better exploitation of the limited and irregular rainfall
pattern of the Agreste and arid zones.
15.       The immediate goal for maize research during the next five years
will be to increase current production by 35%. For sorghum, the goal
will be 380,000 ha by 1980, with a total production of 684,000 tons, or
about 1,800 kg/ha. Very little sorghum is now being planted.
Amazonia
16.       The Amazon area is sparsely populated and very little commercial
maize is now being produced. Improved varieties developed in other areas
of the world in the humid tropics would also be adapted in the Amazon
region, or, if necessary, they could be readily adjusted to the area
through simple recurrent selection techniques. The major problem is to
determine the most efficient systems and agronomic practices most indi-
cated for the production of maize under prevailing conditions of soil
and climate for all kinds of farmers. Very little information or expe-
rience is presently available.
Campos Cerrados
17.       One of the first steps in the increase of maize production in
the Campos Cerrados, where very little maize is now grown, would be the
development of varieties and production systems adapted to the soils
and rainfall pattern of the region. The goal would be the development
of varieties capable of yielding two to three tons per hectare in crop-
ping systems with minimum inputs and adapted to mechanized production.
Program Components
18.       The purpose of the project is to strengthen research capability
as a means of increasing yields of maize/sorghum. To accomplish this, the
program consists of the following main components:
(a) civil works at the research stations Terezina, Caruaru, Penedo,
Irece, Altamira, Manaus, Goiania, Caico and Itapetinga to
provide the necessary laboratories and research facilities;
(b) research farm development at the above stations, plus head-
quarters station of Sete Lagoas;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at all stations
mentioned above;



AViNEX 5
Page 6
(d)  library, documentation and information services;
(e)  technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs;
(f)  land purchase; and
(g)  incremental establishment costs of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
Varietal Improvement
19.       Efforts in breeding would be directed toward the development of
high yielding, widely adapted, drought tolerant, fertilizer responsive, more
nutritive varieties resistant to prevailing diseases and insect pests. In
the development of these kinds of varieties, the plant pathologist, entomo-
lugis,s, physiGlogists, chemi_ts and a,,rcon^-sts .'uld work together -"it"
the geneticists and breeders in a team approach. Emphasis would be on the
improvement of open pollinated varieties rather than hybrids. Procedures
would primarily involve recurrent selection technique within wide-based
populations derived from mixtures of worldwide elite tropical germ plasm
complexes. Selection would be made in the areas for which improved
varieties are desired.
Improvement of Soil Fertility, Agronomic Practices, 11anagement and
Production Systems
20.       The most efficient cropping systems and agronomic practices for
maize, sorghum and millets would be determined for each of the different
ecological situations within the three regions. Sorghum and millets would
be promoted in the drier areas or for production in the drier part of the
year in multiple cropping systems in the more humid regions. Fertilizer
requirements and its most economical use in different rainfall regimes
and cropping systems would be more precisely determined in farmers
fields in collaboration with farmers. The soil fertility and cropping
systems specialists would closely interact with the breeders and orient
them to the kinds of varieties most indicated for the most efficient
cropping systems in the different environments.
21.       The national program would seek to strengthen the cooperative
breeding and seed production work underway in the Piracicaba-SUDENE project.
Since some good varieties have already been identified in this project,



ANNEX 5
Page 7
the national program would place major emphasis on the improvement of soil
fertility and agronomic practices and help determine the production systems
most indicated in the Northeast in close collaboration with the UEPAEs.
Furthermore, the national program would assist the UEPAEs in tying in their
research effort with the direct technical assistance support to farmers
and rural development services that are provided in the area in an attempt
to increase production and unit area yields at the farm level. Most of
the soil fertility research and much of the cropping systems work would
he done on farm fields in collaboration with farmers.
22.       Research work in the Northern (Amazonia) region would also be
focused mostly on the development of cropping systems and determination
of fertilization and agronomic practices for efficient production of maize
in the humid tropics. Early varieties of sorghum might be used in this
region in certain multiple production systems. Work would be done at
Belem, Altamira and Manaus. Basic breeding work would be concentrated in
the Agricultural Research Center in Belem. The UEPAEs at Altamira and
Manaus would serve mainly as testing and demonstration stations.
23.       In the Central-West, research in breeding and production nethodo-
logy in both maize and sorghum would be concentrated in Planaltina, in
collaboration with the Agricultural Research Center, and at Goiania
(UEPAE) in the region. A strong effort would be made to develop varieties
of both maize and sorghum adapted to the Campos Cerrados soil and rainfall
conditions and to determine how these might fit into efficient production
systems for this vast, potentially productive, underdeveloped region of
Brazil.
C. Organization and Management
24.       The national maize/sorghum research program team would be head-
quartered at Sete Lagoas. The station director would have overall respon-
sibility for administration of the headquarters station and would represent
EMBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by
an advisory council 1/ and two associate directors, one for administrative
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and
one for the implementation of the research program.
25.       The associate directors for research, as team leader/coordinators,
would have fuil responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership).



ANNEX 5
Page 8
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs)
and other cooperating institutions concerned with research on program
commodities and the application of new technology in maize/sorghum/
millet production would be achieved through contacts between the team
leaders and representatives for the appropriate research programs at
these stations. An annual workshop would be held at which current
activities would be evaluated and plans for the research program for the
comlng years woulu be iiLaUe.  Lnput from producers would bc anchnlved
through representation at such workshops, or field days, in the distinct
sub-areas of major production as may be necessary. As members of the
advisory council, the associate directors for research would provide
the necessary liaison between the council and producers (see also
Annex 17 for broad discussion of Organization and Management).
Research Station Network
26.        The main research efforts to be concentrated in the Northeast
would be located at the following state units (UEPAEs):
For Maize                For Sorghum and Millet
_ trol_. 5.,v ha              Petro_ iA  25 _ _ _
Caruaru   50 ha                Caico       10 ha
Goiania   50 ha                Caruaru    10 ha
Penedo    10 ha                Itapetinga 10 ha
Altamira  10 ha
Irece     10 ha
Terezina  10 ha
In addition, there would be seven UEPAE stations in the South and
Southeast regions where research on these feedgrains would be carried out.
Also, there are currently six Institutes for Agronomic Research, mainly in
the states of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul and Sao Paulo, where important
research on these crops is being accomplishd.  Details of the research
station network and collaborating institutions is given at Table 4.
University Contract Research
27.        The more basic phases of supporting research needed would be
contracted out where possible to interested institutions capable of making
the desired studies.  For example, the national program would plan to
support research on breeding methodology and formation of basic breeding
materials at the Instituto Agronomico at Campinas, the University of
Campinas, and the Institute of Genetics at Piracicaba where capable
scientists are deeply involved in these kinds of studies.  Where indicated,
the national program would collaborate, or interact directly, with these
scientists in specific areas of research, complementary to the objectives
of the national program.  Wherever desirable and feasible, the natlonal



ANNEX 5
Page 9
programs would seek to stimulate and support efforts of interested outstand-
ing scientists at other institutions and bring them in as part of the national
maize research team network. The best way to accomplish this would be through
mutually beneficial cooperative projects.
D. Staffing
28.       The staff list at full program development of the National Maize
Program is given in Table 5. This includes 66 professionals and 31 admin-
istrative support staff to be assigned to the Sete Lagoas Center. In addi-
tion, 48 professional staff and 32 administrative support staff would be
available at the UEPAEs mentioned. The national maize/sorghum center would
have a director responsible primarily for the administrative aspects of
the center and two associate directors for research programs. They would
also act as technical program leader/coordinators, one for the maize team and
the other for the sorghum team. Leaders of each team would be responsible for
the planning, execution and harmonious operation of all phases of the research
program, whether directly executed by members of the national program, or
in coordination with individuals employed by other institutions. They would
be responsible for development and use of annual budgets as indicated in
paragraph 25 (see Table 5 for Basic Staffing Pattern).
E. Training and Fellowship Program
29.       Both leader/coordinators of the maize and sorghum teams have been
named, but additional staff will need to be trained as soon as possible. Plans
for academic upgrading of potential scientists are as follows: (a) a fellow-
ship program would provide for the training of five staff members to the Ph.D.
degree level and 34 to the M.Sc. level. In addition, funds would provide for
in-service training through short courses in appropriate subject areas for
18 participants.
30.       A training officer has been included in the staff list to plan,
direct, and execute the in-service training program. Many of the young men
in the in-service training program would be working as research assistants,
insofar as possible with the more experienced staff members. Candidates for
fellowships, especially for study toward the Masters degree, would be selected
from the in-service trainee group. Ph.D. candidates would be selected from
M.Sc. scientists who have demonstrated interest and special competence in the
work of the national program (see also Table 2).



ANNEX 5
Page 10
F. Consultants
31.       A total of 9.5 man-years of consultancy services would be made
available for use at the National Research Center and assignments would be
made mainly in the areas of plant breeding, specialized services from the
International Research Centers and for program evaluation (see also Table 2).
C. Linkages with External Organizations
32.       The national program would solicit the collaboration of the Inter-
national Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in special projects,
where desirable and feasible. This might be in the development of basic
maize breeding materials for improved varieties for specific ecological
conditions. Collaboration of CIMMYT in the development of more nutritious
varieties for the Northeast might be especially valuable. Al-so, CIMMYT
could be helpful in the in-service training of personnel in breeding and
production methodologies. In studies of soil fertility, maintenance, and
agronomic practices in the Amazon area, the national team could benefit
greatly from the experiences of the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) in Ibadan, Nigeria.  Young men might be sent there for
training.  Linkages wl,h ,ha ter._at`coal Cropa Research I               for the
Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT), which has projects with sorghum and millet
in the arid zone, would be promoted in a similar fashion (see also Annex 17).
III. COST ESTIMATES
33.       The cost for the National Research Program for Maize/Sorghum
for the five-year period would be approximately US$10.6 million. The
estimated costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 1
BRAZIET
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Maize/Sorghum
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$ '000)
Center         UEPAEs1/            Total
u$             us$-               us$
Development Costs
Civil Worksl/                              -             1,394             1,394
Land Purchase                              -               -                 -
Laborato y Equipment /                     -               381               381
Furniture_/                                -                47                47
Research Farm n-velopmentV                100              -                 100
Farm Eau mentP4/                          100              338                438
Vehicles>/'                               215              382               597
Library, Do-cumentation and
Information Services6/                   150              299               449
'1/
Technical Services-
Research Specialists                                                         712.5
Fellowships - long term                                                      688.5
Fellowships - short term                                                     126.0
Establishment CostY/                                                       5,672.,5
TOTAL                                                          10,605.5
1/  Nine UEPAEs are working with maize/sorghum.  Since all UEPAEs work with
several commodities, ULPAE costs attributed to the respective research
programs are calculated using a formula which reflects the number of
research teams working at different UEPAEs with that particular commodity
(see Aninex 16, Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/  Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
i/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
:/  Per station:  tw4o farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
B/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



BRAZTY,
AGRICUL7UPAL_RESE-EHCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for MAize/Sorghum
Technical Services
Re s ear hS S  -ecilists                Long Term       Sho-t Term         Urdt Cost               Total
Man-years      Man7-years                (constant 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Consultants              _                1.5            75,000               112,500
Plant Breeder-Agronomist (Maize)         3                1               75,000               300,000
Plant Breeder-Agronomist (Sorghum)       3                1               75,000               300,000
Sn'sub  La!                                                                                    712,500
FeUu.1 hu-ih31                      No. of Participants
Lo - Tm
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 yrs.)              28                              11,000               308,000
A!.Sc. abroad (2 yrs.)                 6                              26,000               156,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)               1                              16,500                16,500
?h.D. abroad (4 yrs.)                  4                               52,000              208,000
Short Term                            18                                7,000               126,000
Subtotal                                                                                       814,500
TIOTIL                                                                            1,527,000
1/  I.ncludes fellowships for people working at the UEPAEs.
December 15, 1975



ERAZIL
ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Maize/Sorghum
A. Staff Development Pattern 1/
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost 2/
--- Project Year                        -              Total
1          2         3       h        5
A.  Number of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)    19             29        34      38       48
Number of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)              26         ho        46       53      66
B.  Salaries                                        973      1459      1,702  1,945    2,431.5             8,510.5
Other Operating Expenses                        292        438        681    778       973.0           3,162.0
Establishment Cost of the Program  /1265                  1,897     2,383  2,723    3,404.5            11,672.5
Current Establishment Cost 3/                 1,200      1,200      1,200  1,200    1,200.0             6,000.0
Incremental Establishment Cost                   65        697      1,183  1,523    2,20h.5            5,672.5
--------              (constant in 1976 us8'ooo)-
1/  Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2/  Establishment cost coTprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30,< of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for years 3 to 5. (See establish-
ment cost computations Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMEAPA  1975 budget figures ner research station.              CD
December 15, 1975



WiAZIL                                     Tableh
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for National Research
Program for Maize/Sorghum
1. Funded by Project
Designated
Name                     Designation              State              Role within Program_
Sete Lagoas              NCC                     Minas Gerais           I     II
Planaltina               ARC                      DF. (Brasilia)        I      II    III
Petrolina/Juazeiro       ARC                      Pernarbhuco/Bahia     I     II    III
Belem                    ARC                      Para                  I      II    III
Teresina                 UEPAE                    Piaui                       II    III
Caruaru                  UEPAE                    Pernambuco                  II    III
Penedo                   UEPAE                   Alagoas                      II    III
Irece                    UEPAE                   Bahia                        II    III
Itapetinga               UEPAE                    Bahia                        II    III
Caico                    UEPAE                   Rio Grande do
Norte                     II    III
Altamira                 UEPAE                    Para                         II    III
Goiania                  UEPAE                    Goias                        II    III
2. Not Funded by Project
Pelotas                  UEPAE                     Rio Grande do
Sul                      II    III
Punta Grossa             UEPAE                    Parana                      II    III
Dourados                 UEPAE                    Mato Grosso                  II    III
Cariacica                UEPAE                   Espirito Santo               II    III
Rio Branco               UEPAE                   Acre                          II    III
Patos                    UEPAE                   Minas Gerais                 II    III
3.  Collaborating Institutions
Instituto de
Pesquisas Agronomicas Recife                    Fernambuco                              IV
Universidade Federal
de Pelotas             Pelotas                 Rio Grande do Sul                        IV
Instituto de Agronomia
de Parana'             Londrina                 Parana                                  IV
Instituto de Pesquisas
Agronomicas            Porto Alegre             Rio Grande do Sul                       IV
Escola Superior de
Agricultura
"Luiz de Queiroz"      Piracicaba              Sao Paulo                                IV
IPAGRO - Rio Grande
do Sul                                         Rio Grande do Sul                        IV
Centro Tecnico
Alimentar              Rio                      Rio De Janeiro                          IV
I/   The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Aesearcn
1I = AdaDtive and Adortive Researclh
III = Farming Systems Research and Technology Transfer
IV = Contract Research                                                              I
December 15, 1975



ANN!EX 5
Table 5
BRAZII
AGRICUILTJ    iESEARC: I ?ROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Maize/Scrghum
Staffing Level
Senior      Junior         Support       labor
Station Director                       1l-                                       -
Program Direction
Associate Director for Research         2            -              --
Research Program
Crop Improvement                                                                15
Plant Breeder                           1            4              6
Entorologist                           1             1              2
Plant Pathologist                       1            1              2
Biochemist                              -                           1
Crop Production                                                                 15
Agronomist                              2            4              6
Soil Scientist                         1             2              3
Weed Control Specialist                 -            1              2
Seed 'rodction                                       1              2
Agricultural Engineer                   -            1              2
Technical Services                                                             501/
Economist                               -                           2
Library and Information                -             1              2
Technology Diffusion                    -            1              2
Training Officer                        -            1              2
Station Yanager                        -             1              2
TOTAL                          9            21
Administrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Services              1             -              _
Finance Officer                                      1              4
Personnel Officer                                    1              3
Purchasing Officer                                   1              4
Security Officer                                     1              -            4
Repair and Vaintenance                               1              2           10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                       10
Secretaries (Adrinistrative)                                        2
TOTAL                        1
1/ Includes 40 for general station operations.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR CASSAVA
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Cassava in Agriculture
Background
1.        Originating in Brazil, cassava is cultivated in all tropical
regions where edapho-climatic conditions are favorable. It is generally
found between the latitudes of 300 North and South, forming an ecological
zone called the "Cassava Belt." This region represents 46% of the world's
arable land and holds 47% of the world's population. The belt coincides
roughly with the geographic distribution of the major developing countries.
2.        In recent years, world cassava production has grown rapidly, ris-
ing from 90.5 million tons in 1968 to approximately 105.5 million tons in
1972, an increase of 16.6%. Brazil, Indonesia, Zaire, and Nigeria stand
out as the world's biggest producers, accounting for about 58% of the world's
cassava supply. Brazil alone accounts for 30% of that output. It is estimated
that cassava is the principal food in the tropics for approximately 200 million
people, constituting a basic source of carbohydrates. In view of the com-
bined effect of population and income growth, the demand for cassava in 1980
should be 33% above the 1970 figure. In 1970, cassava furnished 30% of the
calories consumed in Africa, 12% in Latin America, and 7% in the Far East. By
1980, these figures are expected to be, respectively, 37%, 11% and 6%, re-
spectively. While the relative importance of cassava for human consumption
may decrease as incomes increase, it is expected that consumption for animal
feed and industrial uses will more than offset this trend.
Production Performance
3.        Although Brazil is the principal cassava producer, international
trade is dominated by Thailand and Indonesia. Exports are to the highly
industrialized countries, which use these products as raw material in making
fiber, mixtures for balanced animal rations, and cereal substitutes for
barley and corn. Brazil places industrial by-products of cassava on the for-
eign market in the form of cassava flour, manioc meal, cassava starch. and
tapioca. The table below shows the declining tendency of Brazilian exports of
cassava and its by-products from 1969, when Brazilian exports reached a maximum.



AiNEX 6
Page 2
Manioc
Year   Cassava flour            Manioc 1Meal    Cassava Starch   Scrapings
------------------------- in metric tons  -----------------------
1968        754                    7,887             7,172
1969     46,660                    9,611            10,354           38,125
1970     25,549                    8,690                 8           24,272
1971     10,812                    2,168             7,557            9,069
1972        250                    2,055             4,298                1
Source:  CACEX, 1973.
4.        Most of the Brazilian cassava by-product exports come from the
states of Santa Catarina and Sao Paulo. The United States and Canada are
the principal buyers of manioc meal and starch, whereas Belgium, Luxembourg,
Uruguay, and the United States are big importers of edible flour. Cassava
scraping exports dropped from 38,000 tons in 1969 to 1 ton in 1972. West
Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg have been the biggest
importers of cassava by-products in recent years. The decline in Brazilian
exports would seem to be the resulL oL' greaLer  juiabLi    - p-O, pr-
marily as animal food, and also of the increasing use of manioc meal in
flour for bread making, which now constitutes 10% of such flour. Cassava
production is almost stationary and, hence, exportable surpluses continue
to decline. Cassava exports now account for only 0.5% of total exports.
Although all regions in Brazil produce some cassava, production is con-
centrated in the Northeast. In that region, cassava holds second place in
terms of output volume, exceeded only by sugarcane, and it holds sixth
place in terms of area cultivated.
Potentials and Constraints to Production
5.        In the period 1968 to 1972, cassava production increased at a rate
of only 1.06% per year, rising from 29,283,229 tons in 1968 to 29,829,919
tons in 1972. The main reasons for such a slight increase can be found in
the reduction of the cultivated area and the low level of technological inputs
devoted to its cultivation. Yields in Brazil are on the low side, approxi-
mately 13.5 tons per ha. The best land is used for more profitable crops
with better prospects for sale on foreign and domestic markets, and low in-
puts of technology and capital are used in cassava production.
6.        In 1973, the total area under cassava cultivation in Brazil was
2.1 million ha and production was 26.5 million tons. Based upon area cul-
tivated, the Northeast (50.15%) is the largest producer, followed by the
South (25.03%), the Southeast (13.85%), the North (5.87%), and the Central-
West (5.10%). Yields for all areas are fairly uniform, but those for the



ANNTEX 6
Page 3
Central-West, at 15.8 tons/ha, are slightly above the national average.
As mechanized crops, such as soybeans, become increasingly popular in the
South and Southeast, the opportunities for increased production of cassava
in the North must grow accordingly, particularly if the export position of
Brazil for cassava and its by-products is to be sustained. In addition,
there is already considerable evidence that increased yields (per unit area)
can be achieved in the Northeast. As an example, experimental results of
30 tons/ha have been recorded, and the current average yield in the Northeast
is well below half that (11.3 tons/ha). Also, the quantity of starch in
the fresh roots is low at 25 to 30%. Considering that cassava meal and
flour are staple foods for the farm population, it becomes important to de-
velop nationwide research in order to procure varieties with a higher
content of assimilable proteins and providing higher yields per unit area.
Demand Outlook for both Domestic and Export Markets
7.        Researching agricultural commodities and prices in Brazil, Brandt 1/
concluded that cassava demand elasticity is 0.23 for Brazil, whereas the food
demand elasticity in general is 0.80. Due to the low demand elasticity it
is to be expected that. as a result of the increase in income, the increase
in the consumption of cassava will gradually taper off as a natural corollary
to socio-economic advancement, since the population will switch to food
containing more proteins and less carbohydrates. Even so, it is estimated
that the annual production increase will have to be at least 4.1% per year
to meet domestic human consumption. Cassava holds first place in supplying
carbohydrates for the diet of the low income population group. In addition,
the farmer regards the cassava crop as a staple source for his own food
supply and for livestock raising. The average consumption (kg/yr per capita)
for Brazil in 1972 was calculated at 124.6 kg. Average per capita consumption
in the urban zone was 40 kg and in the rural zone 199.6 kg. According to
studies by the Getulio Vargas Foundation, the actual consumption of cassava
in 1970 came to 15,426,000 tons and, by 1980, it is expected that actual
consumption will be 23,151,000 tons (a 50% increase in 10 years). In the
Northeast, the per capita consumption has been estimated at 73.8 kg per year
in the rural areas and 32 kg per year in the urban areas.  Industrial uses
are discussed in paragraph 3.
B.   Current Status of Cassava Research
8.        Cassava, even in the Northeast and Central-West where 55% of pro-
duction is concentrated, has never received the attention of other crops
of comparable importance, on a cultivated area basis, such as corn, beans,
and cotton. The reason for this is, undoubtedly, the relatively low value
of the crop on a volume basis and the fact that, traditionally, it has major
1/   Source:  'Estudos de Pesquisa de Mercado e Precos Agricolas' by
Prof. Sergio Brandt (Universidade Federal de Viscosa), 1972.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
importance as a subsistence crop. The few research studies available on
cassava cultivation focus on cultivation procedures, spacing, planting
systems, fertility and comparisons among varieties. Results, however,
have not contributed greatly to increased output and productivity. The
level of technology employed by the growers is the most rudimentary possible,
and the varieties used are seldom subjected to selection or genetic improve-
ment. This lack of cooperation between grower and researcher has led to a
dissipation of the limited financial, material, and human resources involved
in cassava research.
9.        In the North (Amazonia), research programs have concentrated on
selection of new varieties, fertilizer application and cultivation practices.
In the Northeast, in addition to the above, there have been experiments in
plant protection, soil fertility and the technology of cassava processing.
In the Central-West, records indicate work on production systems only in the
state of Goias, but this obviously reflects the rather low importance the
crop has so far achieved in the Campos Cerrados area. In the Southeast,
breeding work on cassava has been done in the states of Rio de Janeiro and
Ilinas Gerais with yield comparisons on varieties, fertilizer trials and
production methods. From information available, there is no record of
significant research on cassava in the South, although, since 28% of national
production is concentrated there, it seems likely that some work has been
accomplished in the main producing states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande
do Sul, each accounting for 3.2 million tons annually.
10.       It is not possible to identify research workers engaged exclusively
in cassava research, but, in the Northeast as an example, some 78 research
personnel at the graduate level are currently employed on stations where
cassava forms part of the research program.
II.  THE NTATIONAL CASSAVA RESEARCH PROGRALi
A. General Description
Agro-ecological Coverage
11.       Although cassava is an important crop now in three of the five
geographical regions of Brazil (Northeast, South and Southeast), it is likely
that, once specific soil problems are overcome, it may also gain major
importance in the Central-West, particularly in the states of iJato Grosso and
Goias, and in the North (Amazonia), where production is only 5.8% of the
national production at the present time. Based on 1973 production figures,
61% of the national production lies within the agro-ecological region in
which the national research program would concentrate. Given the importance
of the crop in the South, however, linkages to the experiment stations of
Pelotas and Passo Fundo would be maintained as part of the national research
network for the crop.



ANINEX 6
Page 5
Program Goals
12.       Research would be concentrated in two main areas:  (a) develop-
ment of methods to produce more cassava per unit area and identification of
areas for further expansion of the cultivated acreage, particularly in the
Central-West; and (b) development of new technology and improvement of
existing methods to increase the range of industrial uses, particularly in
the export market, as well as systems whereby storage life of raw cassava
(roots) can be lengthened to permit the use of mechanical harvesting tech-
niques. Annual increases of from 5 to 8% at the farm level are thought to
be necessary to maintain Brazil's current position in the export market.
Program Components
13.       In order to achieve the goals as outlined above, the project would
provide for the following:
(a) civil works at the National Commodity Center,Cruz das Almas
and at three UEPAEs--Manaus in the North (Amazonia) and
Bacabal and Quissama in the Northeast;
(b) research farm development at the above stations;
(c)  equi'v.enrt,    n 4 t1iire and trehicles for all stations mentioned
above;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental establishment costs of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
Improvements in Industrial Uses
14.       An attempt would be made to find new and better uses of cassava
as food, feed, starch and other industrialized products, thereby creating
a greater demand for the product and improving the income of the small



ATNEX 6
Page 6
farmers. Currently, there is considerable interest in the production
of methanol from cassava to be used, in the portion of 10%, as a gas-
oline additive.
Varietal Improvement
15.       The first step in the improvement of varieties and agronomic
practices would be to conduct a survey to determine the biological and
economic factors limiting cassava yields and its utilization. This work
would identify the research priorities for both breeding and cultural
practices. Close contact would be maintained with scientists at CIAT (the
International Center for Tropical Agriculture), where a germ plasm bank of
approximately 2,200 collections is maintained. These specimens are being
systematically screened for agronomic characteristics, particularly for
those influencing yield capacity. Brazilian scientists would collaborate
with CIAT scientists in the evaluation of exotic and local materials in
the different ecological situations in Brazil and identify materials for
breeding programs and/or immediate multiplication for conmercial production.
Where feasible and desirable, Brazilian breeders would also seek the co-
operation of CIAT scientists in the evaluation and use of breeding method-
ologies for combining desirable characteristics such as high harvest index
and leaf area index with disease and insect resistance, low cyanide content,
ease of harvesting, stability of performance, and other valuable attributes.
Also, Brazilian scientists would solicit the assistance of CIAT scientists
in introducing a method of rapidly propagating new clones released for
production.
Production Systems and Agronomic Practices
16.       Cropping systems and agronomic practices would vary according to
location, and much of the research required would have to be done at micro-
regional stations and in collaboration with farmers. Cropping systems for
each micro-region would be determined, and research in agronomic practices
would be designed to determine planting densities, stake size, kinds and
quantities of chemical fertilizer to be used, and effective control of weeds,
insects, and diseases.
i-arvest and Post-Harvest 11and_ing
17.       The need for new harvest techniques and simple post-harvest pro-
cessing becomes very apparent as farmers increase yields. Fresh cassava
spoils within a few days after harvest. Simple low-cost methods for on-
the-farm storage must be worked out if serious marketing problems are to
be avoided. Also, easier ways of harvesting the roots must be found. CIAT
scientists are already working on the problem and collaboration with them
would be sought for relevant studies.



ANNI-X 6
Paeg 7
Economic Researclh on Production Costs and Marketing
18.        Research in economics would be conducted Lo determnine the rost
of production under various sysLems and to identify and solve rnarketing
problems.  Studies would be developed Lo determine how the demand for
Lhe product in both domestic and foreign markets could be expanded.
C. Organization and Mariagement
19.       The nationaL cassava research program team would be headquartered
at Cruz das Almas, Bahia. The station director would have overall respons-
ibility for administraLion of Lhe headquarters station and would represent
EMBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an
advisory council 1/ and two associate directors, one for administrative
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and
one for Lhe implementation of the research program.
20.        The associaLe director for research as team leader/coordinat,r
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the progra!-
and would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluaLion. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAYs)
and other cooperating insLituLions concerned wiLh research on cassava anoi
the application of new technology in cassava production would be achieved
through contacts between the team leader and representaLives for the ap-
propriate research programs at these stations.  An annual workshop would
be held at which current activiLies would be evaluated and plans for the
research program for the coming years would be made.  Inputs from producers
would be obtained at such workshops or field days in the distinct sub--
areas of major production. As a member of the advisory council, the associaLe
director for research would provide the necessary liaison between the cocncil
and producers (see also Annex 17).
Research Facilities
21.       One hundred hectares of land are available at the research center
for the cassava program at Cruz das Almas.  In addition, adequate lae retcries
and field workshops for the multi-disciplinary team of researchers *;u'd
be available at this main station.  Facilities would include Laboratories
for plant physiology, plant pathology, entomology, soils and seed work, plus
Lhe necessary equipment and furnishings. Facilities at the satelliLt stations
or UEPAEs would include land allocations as follows:  Bacabal, 20 hna; "anaus,
10 ha; and Quissama, 5 ha. Field laboratories and crop storage fac.' LtLes,
plus additional field equipment for demonstration plot establishment, both
at the station and on farmers' fields, would also be provided.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine r-embers, but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership)



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Research Station Network and Collaborating Institutions
22.       The national team would collaborate with the UEPAEs and other
institutions as necessary to identify and solve the biological and economic
production constraints at the farm level.  More specifically, it would
collaborate with the UEPAEs in such activities as testing of new clones;
development of appropriate production systems and agronomic practices; solu-
tion of practical problems in harvesting, temporary storage and marketing;
and development and adoption of improved technological packages in collabor-
ation with farmers. In the initial stages, although certain activities might
be promoted nationwide, efforts would be concentrated mainly at the central
headquarters and at the stations located near Bacabal and Quissama in Lhe
Northeast, Manaus in the North, and Planaltina in the Central-West (Campos
Cerrados). In addition, four UEPAE stations in the Southeast and North would
also conduct research on cassava. The full research station network is shown
in Table 4.
Contract Research
23.       The national team would attempt to promote the necessary research
in food technology to find better ways to use cassava for food in collabor-
ation with the Food Technology Institute at Campinas or some highly qualified
university, if so indicated, on a contract basis. Research leading to new
industrialized products might also to worked out with certain food or feed
processing industries on a cooperative special contract basis. Necessary
feeding trials in the evaluation of cassava in various animal rations is an-
other area for university collaboration, although some research along this
line could be done on a cooperative basis with the national beef and dairy
cattle programs and national swine program (see also Table 4 for list of
collaborating institutions).
D. Staffing
24.       The staff at full development would comprise 40 professionals and
23 administrative support staff for the core research program (National
Commodity Center) and an additional 26 professional staff and 21 administrative
support staff at the three satellite stations. ITL may be necessary to add an
agricultural engineer, plus junior and supporting staff in this field, for work
in development of improved processing techniques. There are very few exper-
ienced cassava workers in Brazil now, perhaps no more than 10% of the number
required, and staff would have to be developed mostly on an in-service train-
ing basis (see Table 5).



ANNEX 6
Page 9
E. Training and Fellowship Program
25.        The project would provide for the academic upgrading of 26 young
professionals for the cassava reearch program.  Twenty-two of thlese would
be trained to the M.Sc. level, four to the Ph.D. level, and an additional
15 would participate in special short courses related to the program. De-
tails of this training component of the project are provided in Table 2.
A training officer has been included in the staff list to plan, direct and
execute the in-service training program. Insofar as possible, the young
staff members in the in-service training program would work as research
assistants with the more experienced personnel. Individuals to take the
short courses would be selected from this group. Candidates for the M.Sc.
degree would be selected from the in-service trainee group. Ph.D. candidates
would be selected from the M.Sc. scientists that have demonstrated interest
and special competence in the national program.
F. Consultants
26.        In view of the severe shortage of trained professionals for work on
the cassava program at present, a total of seven man-years of long-term con-
sultant service and 5.5 man-years of short-term consultant services would be
provided under the project. These specialists would provide expertise in
the areas of plant breeding, plant pathology, production agronomy, and mech-
anical engineering for food processing and technology (see Table 2).
C. Linkages to International Centers
27.       As has been previously mentioned, the International Center for
Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), Cali, Colombia has a very active program for
cassava research which has produced a great deal of new technology for the
crop during recent years and collaboration with it would be sought whenever
possible.  Mluch of this would be appropriate for simple technology trans-
fer, since conditions in the main growing areas of Brazil are similar to
those found in the Cauca Valley of Colombia. in addition, the storage and
food technology developed in Colombia can readily be adapted to the Brazilian
experience.
III. COST ESTIMATES
28.        The cost for the National Research Program for Cassava, for the
five-year period, would be approximately US$10.1 million. The estimated costs
are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Cassava
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$ 1000)
Center         UEPAEs-/          Total
us$              $uS$
Development Costs
Civil Works2/                              -             483               483
Land Purchase        2/                    -               23                23
Laboratory Equipment-                      -              132              132
Furniture                                  -               16                16
Research Farm pevelopment3/              100               -               100
Farm Eaui  ent4/                         100              117               217
Vehicie s5/                              215              132               347
Library, Documentatio  and
Information Services-/                 150              104               254
Technical Services
Research Specialists                                                       937.5
Fellowships - long term                                                    489.5
Fellowships - short term                                                    105.0
Establishment Cost8/                                                     6,976.5
TOTAL                                                         10,080.5
1/ Three UEPAEs are working with cassava. Since all UEPAEs work with several
commodities, UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are
calculated using a formula which reflects the number of research teams
working at different UEPAEs with that particular commodity (see Annex 16,
Table 15).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/ Figure provided by MBRAPA.
i Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
&/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
U/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



MZ ~, IL
ACCRICULTRAIT RESEARC"i I PRGJLT
National Research Program for Cassava
Technical Services
Researchl Specialists                Long Term      Short Term        Unit Cost                 Total
MvJan-years    -Man-yeErs              (constant 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                    -             1.            75,,000                  112,500
Program Agronomist                            3              1.0            75,000                  300,000
Plant Bree(ier                                 1              1.0           7;,000                  150, 00()
Plant Pathologist                              1             1.0            75,000                  150, o000
Erigineer (Mechanization, Processing)          2              1.0           75,000                  225,000
Subtotal                                                                                       937,500
Fellawships 1,                    No. of Particlnants 1/
I,ong Term
M.Sc. i.n P,razil (2 yrs.)              17                            11,000                   187,000
Mvi.Sc. abroad    (2 yrs.)               5                            26,000                   130,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                 1                            16,500                    16,500
'A.D. abrcad    (l yrs.)                 3                            52,000                   156,000
Short Term                              15                             7,000                   10o5,000
Subtotal                                                                                       592),500
T OTAT                                                                              1,532, 000
1/  Includes fellcmJs,,ips for peopTle working at the UEPAEs.
December 15, 19'75
(D



ACRICULTTULAI. RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Program for Cassava
A. Staff Development Pattern 1/
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost 2/
-- Project Year --                                Total
1         2         3       4       5
A.  Number of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)        11         17       20      22       28
Number of Junicr Scientists (B.Sc.)               15        23        27      30      38
B.  Salaries                                         602       903    1,054   1,204   1,505.5            5,268.5
Other Operating Expenses                        181        271      422      482     602.0           1,958.0
Establishment Cost of the Program 2/             783     1,174    1,476   1,686   2,107.5            7,226.5
Current Establishment Cost 3/                     50        50        50      50      50.0             250.0
Incremental Establishment Cost                  733      1,124    6,026   1,636   2,057.5            6,976.5
---------------------- (constant in 1976 US$to00) -----------
1/  Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2/  Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operatirg expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40%0 of salaries for years 3 to 5. (See establish-
ment cost computations Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/ Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMERAPA 1975 budget figures per research staion.
December 15, 1975



AN1MEX 6
Table Z
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for National Research
Program for Cassava
Desigiated
Name             Designation              State             Role with.n Program-
1. Funded by Project
Cruz das Almas              NCC                 3ahia                  I    II    III
Bacabal                     UEPAE              lIaranhao                    II    III
0uissama                    UEPAE               Sergipe                     TI    III
Manaus                      UEPAE              Amazonas                I    TI    ITT
2. Not Punded by Project
Campos                      UEPAE              Rio de Janeiro               II    III
Caria Cica                  IJEPAE             Espirito Santo               II    ITT
Pacajus                     UEPAE               Ceara                       II    III
?io Branco                 UEPAE               Acre                         TI    III
3. Collaborating Institutions
Instituto Agronomico
de Campinas               Campinas           Sao Paulo                                 IV
lIJniversidade Federal      Cruz das
da Bahia                  Almas              Bahia                                     TV
Escola Superj . :' de
Agricultura "Luis
de Queiroz"               Piracicaba         Sao Paulo                                 TV
Instituto de PesCu4sas
Agronomicas               Recife              Pernambuco                               IV
Instituto de Pesc.uisas
Agronomicas               Porto Alegre        Rio Grande do Sul                        IV
Instituto de Ag-onomia
do Parana                 Londrina           Parana                                    IV
-'  The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Research
II   Adaptive and Adoptive Research
III = Fnrming Systems Research and Technology transfer
IV = Contract R-search
December 1 5, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Cassava
Staffing Level
Senior     Junior       Support     Labor
Station Director                           1            -            -
Program Direction
Associate Director for Research
(program leader coordinator)               1                         -          -
Crop Improvement                                                               10
Plant Breeder_I                            -            2            3
Entomologist                                1           1            2
Plant Pathologist                          1            1            2
Crop Production                                                                10
Agronomist                                  1           2            3
Soil Scientist                             1            1            3
teed Pir-oim-tion                                       1            2
Technical Services                                                             30
Library and Inform ation                    -           1            2
Technology Diffusion                        -           1            2
Training Officer                            -           1            2
Station Manager                             -           1            1
TOTAL                              6           12          22          50
Adninistrative Services
Associate Director -
Adbninistration                            1           -            -           -
Finance Officer                             -           1            2           -
Personnel Officer                           _           1            1           -
Purchasing Officer                          -           1            2           -
Security Officer                            -           1            0          2
Repair and Maintenance                      -           1            2          6
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                         8
Secretaries (Amninistrative)                                         2
Labor                                                                            8
TOTATL                             1            5           17         16
1/ Nonnally, the senior scientist for plant breeding would also be associate
director and program leader.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR COTTON
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Cotton in Agriculture
World Production and Demand
1.        Cotton, a crop which is widely distributed throughout the world,
is produced in about 70 countries, most of which are developing countries;
in 1972-1973, it is estimated that approximately 37.4 million ha was
cultivated on all continents. The 1972-1973 world output was close to 13
million tons (59.3 million bales); the United States produced 2.9 million
tons (13.7 million bales), followed by the Soviet Union (2.4 million tons),
Mainland China (1.4 million tons), India (1.1 million tons), Pakistan
(702,000 tons), and Brazil (642,000 tons).
2.        A study of the cons-umption data for .he pas, 20 yas shows tho
the development of world cotton output during that time was characterized
by cycles of overproduction and underproduction. These cycles do not show
uniform duration and vary as a function of the climatic conditions which
may or may not be favorable to the crop. Even so, between the crop years
1963/64 and 1973/74, the world's cotton supply increased by approximately
18.0 million bales, corresponding to an average annual increase on the
order of 2.16%. Parallel to this, the demand increased by 18.4 million
bales in absolute terms, approximately 2.4%. Between 1972 and 1974 a
sustained demand growth of 2.0% per year was experienced. This means an
additional demand of 245,000 tons per year at present levels, or 75 million
bales (16.4 tons), by 1980.
Cotton Production in Brazil
3.        Two main types of cotton are cultivated in Brazil:  annual cotton,
grown mainly in the Southeast and South (49% of national production) and
the perennial cottons cultivated mainly in the project area of the Northeast
and Campos Cerrados (51% of national production). In the project area, the
distribution of the two types is as follows: annual 25%, and perennial, 75%.
The annual cottons of the Northeast are medium-staple, high yielding varieties.
Perennial cotton is further divided into the long-staple, low yielding and
the short-staple, high yielding types. The regional distribution of these
varieties is determined by soil and climatic conditions and, to some degree,
by tradition.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        In areas with low rainfall or poor rainfall distribution, and
shallow soil, only the xerophytic or drought-resistant long-staple perennial
cotton can sustain itself and produce, even under severe drought conditions,
the only meager income that farmers can expect in these poor areas. The
area extends from the southern part of Ceara into Pernambuco and parts of
Bahia. For these reasons, the long-staple perennial cottons are of vital
importance to farmers in the Northeast of Brazil. In areas where rainfall
pattern and soil fertility permit, the other two types of cotton are grown,
often side by side with long-staple perennial cottons. This creates con-
siderable difficulties for any sort of seed multiplication, where isolation
of the three types is of extreme importance. Intercrossing of the three
types and mechanical mixing of seed of various cotton types and origins
has brought about either considerable reductions in yield or less fiber-
length and strength, the latter giving the long-staple perennial cottons the
advantage in the fiber marketplace.
5.        Production of annual cotton in the South and Southeast conLrasts
sharply with the above in that cropping systems are more highly mechanized,
and both use credit and technical inputs - such as improved seed and
fertilizer - on a large scale. As a result, yields are much higher, and
production costs relatively lower. In contrast, the cultivation methods
used in the Northeast are correspondingly more labor-intensive. These broad
differences in cultivation methods, with their social impact on the labor
force, are so distinct as to warrant an a ceptabla d-far_ --atn cf *h^
national research effort for the South, as opposed to the Northeast/Central-
West area in this case.
Potentials and Constraints to Productions
6.        During the 10-year period (1964-73) the relative importance of
Brazil's cotton exports has dropped by 50%, from 7.62% to 3.75% of total
exports, although actual value of exports increased by 134% during the
same period, and it is significant that, in rather unstable world markets,
the volume of Brazilian exports has been well maintained. Cotton, there-
fore, plays an important role in the export economy of the country, and
the main features of future strategy to sustain this position are as
follows: (a) further improvement of cultivation techniques on large scale
production of annual cottons in the South and Souitheast, as a separate
program, and (b) intensive research on the cotton varieties used in the
Northeast and Central-West to improve both quality and yield and to pro-
vide a more uniform, high quality product; (c) in the case of (b) above,
the aim would be to continue small scale intensive production by farmers
to preserve the labor-intensive requirements of the crop.   The main
constraints to production of high quality cotton in the Northeast and
Central-West have been related to cultivation procedures, particularly the
lack of certified seed and quality control standards for type and grade
of cotton being produced. Both these aspects influence strongly the
potential returns to crop production.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Demand Outlook for Cotton
7.        The Brazilian Institute for Economic and Social Planning (IPEA)
has estimated an increased demand for cotton in the Northeast of 6.5%
annually for the period 1973-1980. liost of this increase would be for
domestic use; 80% of total crop of 467,300 tons of baled cotton (ginned)
as opposed to 69% of the crop in 1971. Exports of cotton from the North-
east are not expected to rise above 20.0% (91,100 tons) of crop output from
the region in 1980. This not only reflects a worldwide tendency to trade
in finished or semi-finished cotton products, as opposed to raw cotton,
but also reflects Government policy to increae the potential for manufacture
of cotton yarn in the Central-West and Northeast. Currently, 30% of world
cotton production moves on the international market as raw cotton. Overall,
world demand for cotton, which has declined since 1973, is expected to re-
turn to 1973 levels by 1976, and show a slight increase (1.75% annually)
after that date. Domestic demand is expected to increase by 4.5% per year
in the region, and a target of production increases of 6% per year has been
set for the 1976-80 period, which appears justified, given the strong demand
for high quality long-staple cottons.
B. Current Status of Research
8.        Current research in the Northeast and Central-West is primarily
directed at perennial cotton cultivation. The principal institutions which
concentrate on cotton research are the following: Superintendency for
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), Federal University of Ceara, San
I'iguel Cotton Co. Inc. (private enterprise), State Secretariats of Agri-
culture, Industry and Commerce Secretariat of Paraiba (SAIC), Pernambuco
Agronomic Research Institute (IPA), Institute for Agricultural Research in
the Northeast (IPEANE) and Institute for Agricultural Research in the East
(IPEAL). It must be emphasized that the technical personnel of these in-
stitutes do not work on cotton research exclusively, but are also concerned
with teaching activities (Federal University of Ceara) and with the agri-
cultural policies of the states (Agriculture Secretariats). Only the tech-
nicians of IPEANE, the IPEAL and the IPA are concerned solely with research.
9.        These institutions had a total of 68 experiments in progress during
1974. Technical personnel, totalling 292, were working at 21 different sites.
Experiments were concentrated in the areas of: genetic improvement, plant
physiology, plant protection, soil fertility and irrigation. The purpose of
these experiments was to increase yields through adaptation of varieties to
local conditions and provide resistance to insects and diseases. The per-
centage, quality and uniformity of fiber produced was the basis for selection
of new varieties in these experiments, which dealt with both annual and
perennial cottons for the Northeast.
10.       There have been two main problems which have severely hampered
researuci  ei -iurc5 su  ar.  Iiie rirst concerns une LacK o0  coordination and
orientation, as reflected in the absence of priorities, and in the difficulty



ANNEX 7
Page 4
of undertaking more large-scale projects. The other difficulty stems from
the fact that research, for many years, was aimed mainly at fiber quality,
and relative productivity was neglected.
11.       Genealogical selections have been in the region since 1930 in an
effort to purify the local perennial cotton populations. The research
emphasis was for a long time placed on getting satisfactory fiber length.
Three varieties sprang from the work done so far: MF-1 (San Miguel), APA
(IPA) and 9193 (IPEANE, long-staple cotton experiment). All of these were
less productive than the local populations during the first year of cultiv-
ation, although they made up for this first year inferiority during the
second and third years. The APA variety is the one that presents the great-
est fiber length and the greatest strength.
12.       Cotton research in the South and Southeast has been concentrated
on annual cotton, mainly in the states of Parana and Sao Paulo, respectively.
In Parana, research is carried out mainly by Instituto de Pesquisas Meridional
(IPEAME) and, in Sao Paulo, by the Agricultural Institute of Campinas (IAC).
Since the greater part of cotton cultivation in these southern areas is
already mechanized, research tended to stress uniformity of varieties, through
seed selection and production of selected seed to maintain a uniform product.
Research SLation NeLwurs
13.       Previous to the formation of EMBRAPA on April 26, 1972, all Federal
Research Stations were operated under DNPEA (National Agricultural Research
Department). In the cotton growing areas of the Northeast, South and South-
east, a total of 52 institutes, which controlled 107 field research stations,
had been established. Of these institutes, 31 were federal, 6 were state
owned, 5 were associated with universities, and 10 were privately owned.
Cooperation between these various groups was minimal, and only two IPEANE
(federal) and IPA (state) institutions in the Northeast provided some re-
sults from research on perennial cotton in the Northeast. Two more -- IAC
(state) in the Southeast (Sao Paulo) and IPEAME (Instituto de Pesquisas
Agropecuarias Meridional - federal) in the South (Parana) - contributed
greatly to the development of annual cotton in this region. Research has
stimulated the relatively vigorous nature of cotton cultivation in the South
and Southeast, as opposed to the poor and erratic commercial performance of
perennial cotton in the Northeat. Doubtless, this difference in economic
importance is related to the comparatively low level of technology and mechan-
ization employed in cotton cultivation in the Northeast and Central-West, as
well as to the climatic and soil conditions predominant in these areas.
Research Personnel
14.       It is not possible to determine precisely how nmany research personnel
are engaged in cotton research only, but an estimate for 1972 placed the
figure at 1,335 research personnel working on cotton in the states of Parana



ANNEX 7
Page 5
and Sao Paulo, and only 98 in the cotton growing states of the Northeast and
Central-West.
Research Achievements
15.       During the period 1960-70, the area in cotton (annual and perennial
combined) rose from 2,930,361 ha to 4,298,573 ha. Yields per hectare, however,
dropped from 549 kg/ha in 1960 to 455 kg/ha in 1970, or a drop of 17.2%.
Records 1/ of perennial cotton for 1973 show plantings of 2,347,105 ha for a
total production of 548,596 tons with an average yield of only 234 kg/ha. In
contrast, in the same year, 2,031,574 ha of annual cotton was grown for a total
yield of 1,707,863 tons with an average yield of 841 kg/ha. While the value of
perennial cotton (Cr$ 1,320,660,000) was approximately half that received for
the annual cotton crop (Cr$ 2,567,002,000), the cultivated area for the latter
was only 86.5% of the former. This would indicate that the application of
research results to the production process had been significant on annual cotton
production in the South and Southeast. Meanwhile, average kg/ha production
has continued to decline in the Northeast, particularly for perennial cotton.
16.       Along with genetic improvement on perennial cotton, agronomic
research is being developed on intercropping, planting density, pruning,
longevity, and use of insecticides. Studies on the use of fertilizer were
started recently, and the School of Agronomy of the Federal University of
Ceara already has somp prtl im1niarv hut fnv--l        S e  eslts.
17.       Preliminary data from SUDENE and the University of Ceara shows that
128 experiments were conducted in 1973; 43 of these experiments were made
with annual cotton and 85 with perennial cotton. Half of the total involved
fertilizer work; 25% pertained to genetic improvement and the other 25%
included experiments in crop cultivation practices and plant health.
18.       Starting in 1972, the National Association for Fertilizer Dis-
semination (AINDA) has been doing research work and has been setting up de-
monstration fields with the 12 main agricultural products of the region,
emphasizing the application of fertilizer. In 1973, 79 fertilization ex-
periments were conducted with cotton in various micro-regions of the nine
states in the Northeast. The financial analysis of these activities revealed
great variability, with value/cost indexes between 1.3 and 6.6 for the
experiments conducted.
1/   Source:  Annual Statistics for Brazil (IBGE), 1974.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
II. THE NATIONAL COTTON RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR THE NORTHEAST
A. General Description
19.        Cotton production is important mainly in the Northeast of the
project area where 50% of national cotton production occurs, based on value
of crop. Both annual and perennial cottons are grown in an area of approxi-
mately 3.2 million ha, representing 69% of the area under cotton in Brazil.
Yields for perennial cotton, the main type produced in the Northeast, are
only 38% of the national average.
20.       Agro-ecologically, the area may be divided into three main regions;
the narrow littoral belt, starting in the state of Paraiba and continuing
south to the extreme south of the state of Bahia. It represents 8.2% of the
land area of the Northeast and covers 126,000 km2. Little or no cotton is
cultivated in this area, known as the humid coastal area or "zona da mata."
The second region of major importance to agriculture is the "agreste," or
semi-arid region. This area, which lies inland and to the west of the littoral
is not, however, a continuous unit. The agreste covers 170,000 km2, and lies
in the states of Bahia, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco and Alagoas. It
is in this area that annual cotton, representing 25% of area cotton production,
is grown. The remaining 75z is produced in the semi-arid ("sertao") regiua,
which covers a broad belt running northwest to southeast in the states of
Ceara, Piauo, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco and Bahia. Total area
of the "sertao" is 741,443 km2 and represents 47.9% of the land area of the
Northeast region. Perennial cotton, however, is produced principally in
the states of Ceara (47%), Rio Grande do Norte (18%), Paraiba (18%), and
Pernambuco (9%).
Research Program Goals
21.       The main objective of research on the two types of cotton (annual
and perennial) would basically be to increase production per unit area, and
also to introduce cotton as a possible crop in the farming systems of pro-
duction units over a wider range in the agro-ecological area, where suitable
conditions for its cultivation are to be found. Target figures (1980) for
increased unit area yields would be 320 kg/ha for perennial cotton, repre-
senting a 13% increase from the current 283 kg/ha level, and 1,200 kg/ha
for annual cotton, or an increase of 20% from current levels of 1,000 kg/ha.
Based on a national production figure of 3.4 million tons of cotton, in
1980, the portion for the project area (Northeast and Central-West) would be
1.7 million tons. Of this total, 85% of the area (3,200,000 ha) would be in
perennial cotton producing 1,024,000 tons, and 15% (570,000 ha) would be in
annual cotton producing 684,000 tons. Included in research program goals



ANNEX 7
Page 7
would be the selection and adaptation of suitable soil types for annual
cotton, particularly in the Central-West region, which becomes a possible
growing area for the crop as acreage moves out of annual cotton and into
soybeans in the South and Southeast.
Program Components
22.       In order to accomplish the above objectives, the project would pro-
vide for the following:
(a) civil works at the research stations of Campina Grande, Bacabal,
Irece, Cruzeta, Alagoinha, and Barreiras to provide the necessary
laboratories and research facilities;
(b) research farm development at the above stations;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at all stations
mentioned above;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental etablishment costs of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
The Research Program
23.       The research program would be aimed at the improvement of varieties,
soil fertility and agronomic practices, and cropping systems as follows: core
research would be done at the National Research Center for Cotton at Campina
Grande, which would be the headquarters for both annual and perennial cotton
research. Substations under the core program would be located at Cruzeta for
perennial cotton and at Irece for the annual varieties.
24.       The Agricultural Research Center (ARC) for the Northeast at Petrolina-
Juazeiro would provide a base for production of stock seed under irrigation
to permit the necessary isolation for production of pure seed. Cotton would



ANNEX 7
Page 8
also be one of the crops chosen for testing in farming systems and in demon-
stration plots at the UEPAEs of Bacabal, Alagoinha and Barreiras. The core
research program at the National Research Center for Cotton would have the
following components.
Varietal Improvement
25.       Work on varietal improvement would comprise the collection and
screening of commercial varieties, currently available both in Brazil and
abroad, when similar conditions for cultivation are known to exist. Proper
cataloging and preservation of well identified genetic strains would require
a germ plasm bank to be established at the National Cotton Research Center
at Campina Grande. This collection would form the basis for improvement of
varieties to meet the requirements of cotton to be grown in the project area.
Plant Health Protection
26.       Studies would be undertaken on the integrated control of pests,
diseases, and weeds harmful to perennial and annual cotton in different pro-
duction systems, and a survey would be conducted on the frequency of principal
pests, and of diseases affecting both perennial and annual cotton. Research
would also investigate the resistance of perennial and annual cotton to
diseases and pesLs.
Economic Studies
27.       Potential domestic and foreign sales of medium and long-fiber cotton
would be reviewed. Costs of producing perennial and annual cotton in the semi-
arid region under the varying soil and climatic conditions to be found in the
project area plus influences of size of production unit and availability of
inputs such as capital (credit) machinery and technology available to the farmer
at all levels would be studied.
Agronomic Practices
28.       These would include land preparation, planting dates, spacing ex-
perim.ents, use of fertilizers and herbicides, plant protection techniques,
varying levels of mechanization to provide for interests of farmers at all
levels of inputs, i.e., land, capital, mechanization and labor.
Cropping Systems
29.       On the basis of data on economic and agroclimatic conditions in the
project area - much of which would be provided by the substations and UEPAEs
through contact with growers, cooperatives and marketing associations - it
should be possible to devise associations of three to four crops, to provide



ANNEX 7
Page 9
maximum yields under the varying conditions found in the project
area. Depending somewhat on relative values for each crop, combin-
ations of cotton, sorghum, beans, cassava with sheep and goats are
likely to find a place in cropping systems research for the area.
C. Organization and Management
30.       The station director would have overall responsibility for
administration of the headquarters station, and would represent EMBRAPA
for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an ad-
visory council 1/ and two associate directors, one for administrative
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer,
and one for the implementation of the research program. The Associate-
Director of the National Commodity Center for Cotton, located at Campina
Grande, would be program leader/coordinator for the research program in
the Northeast. The program for annual cotton in the South and Southeast
would still be coordinated from the state of Sao Paulo. Even so, the
program leader from Campina Grande would maintain close liaison with the
Sao Paulo station in matters relating to the cultivation of annual cotton
in the project area under the program. The program leader/coordinator
wouia rorm Lne researcn program Leam fLoin Lthe leaders in cotton research
at the other five research stations (UEPAEs) participating in the cotton
program for the region, and this group would be responsible for elaboration
of the research program. The research network for annual and perennial
cotton would comprise 11 stations within the project area (see Table 4 for
details).
Research Facilities
31.       These would be available at the following six stations:  Campina
Grande (headquarters), 300 ha; Bacabal, 10 ha; Cruzeta, 5 ha; Alagoinha, 3 ha;
Itapetinga, 5 ha; and Barreiras, 5 ha. The project would provide adequate
laboratory facilities for plant breeding, disease control, agronomic studies
and fiber analysis at the National Commodity Center. In addition, the
satellite stations would be equipped with adequate field laboratories to
carry out the adaptive research necessary and provide demonstration plots
on farmers' fields.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members,
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
an example of membership).



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Collaborating Institutions
32.       The Institute of Cotton and Oil Seeds (INFAOL), using financial
incentives from federal, state and private sctors, encourages cotton
cultivation, particularly in the Northeast, putting most of its efforts
on price incentives and marketing. The National Research Program would
collaborate with this institute on studies of economic returns to pro-
duction and on marketing. Four other research and educational institutes
in the project area also contribute to cotton research (see Table 4).
University Contract Research
33.       It is proposed that when research problems of a specific nature
occur, even those that may necessitate some long-range basic research
program, it would be advisable to contract the work of solving them to select
universities in the region which have demonstrated an interest in agriculture
in general and cotton cultivation in particular. These problems generally
involve soil science, plant physiology, microbiology, biochemistry or plant
anatomy, but may also include specific studies in the field of agricultural
economics as an adjunct to farming systems research (see also Annex 17).
D. Staffing
34.       The program, at full development, would require a total of 65
professional staff and 31 support staff at the National Commodity Center.
An additional 32 professional staff and 27 support staff would be engaged
in cotton research at the five state research centers (UEPAEs) listed in
Table 4. Currently, only 10% of the personnel required are available so that
an ambitious program of staff training would be required (see Table 5).
E. Training and Fellowship Program
35.       A Lraining officer has been included in the staff list at the com-
modity program center to plan and execute in-service training and to assist
in the selection of appropriate candidates for the fellowship program. This
program calls for the training of five staff members to the Ph.D. level and
a further 34 for the M.Sc. degree. Selection of the candidates will depend
upon the areas of specialization required to achieve research program goals.
In addition, in-service short course training would be provided for 15 staff
participants (see Table 2).



ANNEX 7
Page 11
F. Consultants
36.       It is evident that experienced staff in the areas of plant breed-
ing, production agronomy, entomology and mechanical engineering would not be
available during the first four years of project execution. For this reason,
five man-years of long-term and 5.5 man-years of short-term consultant ser-
vices would be provided by the project, particularly in the areas of plant
breeding, entomology and mechanization (see Table 2).
G. Linkages to International Centers
37.       Cotton is not among the commodities currently being given specific
attention at any of the eight established International Research Centers.
However, the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
(ICRISAT) is broadly engaged in developing farming system techniques in agro-
ecological conditions, such as are found in Northeast Brazil and particularly
in those areas devoted to perennial cotton cultivation. For this reason,
links to ICRISAT - to provide existing technology related to farming systems
in which cotton was a crop - would warrant consideration as soon as the re-
search program is sufficiently advanced in this area. Some commercial and
EraCe organizaLions hdvinfg capabiliLy ai                   -S a- .---; -        t
in the USA and Europe and they might be able to provide short-term assistance
on specific problems within the program of research.
III. COST ESTIMATES
38.       The cost for the National Research Program for Cotton for the
five-year period would be approximately US$15.8 million.   The estimated
costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRJrULTtRAL RESEARCH I .-ROJECT
National Research Program for Cotton
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$1000)
Center             UEPAEs 1/           Total
US$              _US$                  US$
Development Costs
Civil Works 2/                    1,398                965               2,363
Land Purchase                       -                   -                  -
Laboratory Equipment 2/             244                265                 509
Furniture 2/                         141                33                   74
Research Farm Development 3/        100                                    100
Farm Equipment 4/                   100                2314.               334
Vehicles 5/                         215                266                 481
Library, Documentation and          150                207                 357
Information Services 6/
Technical Services 7/
Research Specialists                                                       787.5
Fellowships - long-term                                                    688 .5
Fellowships - short term                                                   105.0
Establishment Cost 8/                                                   10,022.5
TOTAL                                                         15,8 21.5
1/ Five UEPAEs working with cotton. Since all UEPAEs work with several conmodities,
UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are calculated using
a formula which reflects the number of research teams working at different UEPAES
with that particular commodity (see Annex 16, Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
17/ Based on an estimate of U$lO0,000 per station.
;/ Per station:  two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAEO
7/ See Table 2.
9/ See Table 3.
Decerber 15, 1975



Pki,AZTL
AGRIO52 LTUIkA I.ESBA'.,wCI.I IPROJECT
National Research Prograni for Cotton
Technioal Services
Research Specialists                    Lvong Term      Short Term         Unit Cost                Total
'IM-.years      Man-years                 (constaUSt 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                                1.5               75,000                112,500
Plant Breeder                               -              1                 75,000                 75,000
Agronomist                                  3              1                 75,000                300,000
Entomologist                                1              1                 75,000                150,000
Engineer - Mechanization                    1              1                 75,000                150,000
Subtu-t -1                                                                                         787,500
1/
F'Y5J <-"T,                         No. of Partlcinants
T;-!> Teril
.S c .    3    1razil (2 yrs.)           28                              11,000                 308,000
-..  ,o  (2 yrs.)                  6                              26,000                156,000
Ii  m h   Tj.1 (3 yrs.)                   1                              16,500                  16,500
P.D. I abroad (4 yrs.)                    4                               52,000                208,000
SIort TrpsrT                            15                                7,000                105,000
,S ull,o t al                                                                                       793,500
Tr7AL                                                                                  1,581,000
g/  Includes fellowships for people wort:i-r., at the UEPAEs.                                                        CD4
December 15, 1C7



13RAZ II
AGRICULTLRAL RESEARCH I ROJECT
Research Prcgram for Cotton
A. Staff Development Pattern 1/
B.  Schedule of Establishment Cost 2/
------------ Project Year -------------             Total
1        2        3         4        5
A.  Number of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)        16       25        ?9       33        41
Number of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)               22      .34       39        45       56
B.  Salaries                                         856    1,284    1,498    1,712    2,140.5           7,490.5
Other Operating Expenses                         257      385      599       685      856.o          2,782.0
Establishment Cost of the Program  2/          1,113    1,669    2,097    2,397    2,996.5          10,272.5
Current Establishment Cost  3/                    50       50       50        50       50.0            250.0
N
Incremental Establishment Cost                1,063    1,619    2,047    2,347    2,946.5           10,022.5
-___-_----(constant in 1976 US'000)------------------
1/  Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2/  Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern andi specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for years 3 to 5. (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table I4.)
3/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from globel EMTRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.  3,|
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 7
table I.
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Program for Cotton
Designated
Name           Designation           State             Role within Program 1/
1. Funded by Project
Campina Grande           NCC             Paraiba                 I    II    III
Caico                    UEPAE           Rio Grande do Norte          II    III
Bacabal                  UEPAE           Maranhao                     II    III
Alagoinha                UEPAE           Paraiba                      II    III
Itapetinga               UEPAE           Bahia                        II    III
Barrieras                UEPAE           Bahia                        II    III
Petrolina/Juazeiro 2/   ARC              Pernambuco/Bahia        I    II    III
2.  Not Funded by Project
Dourados                 UEPAE           Mato Grosso                  II    III
Sete Lagoas              UEPAE           Minas Gerais                 II    III
Felixlandia              UEPAE           Minas Gerais                 II    III
Uberaba                  UEPAE           Minas Gerais                 II    III
3. Collaborating Institutions
Instituto Agronomico
de Campinas            Campinas        S-ao Paulo                                IV
Universidade Federal
do Cear               Fortaleza       Ceara                                     IV
Universidade Federal    Campina
da Paraba             Grande          Paraiba                                   IV
Instituto de Pesauisa
Agronomica             Recife          Pernambuco                                IV
/  The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Research
II = Adaptive arid Adoptive Research
III = Farmirg -ystems Research and Technology transfer
IV = Contract Research
2/
- For basic seed production.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 5
BRAZIL
ACTRICUTiTURAL iqSFAR(7 I PJROJTW('T
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Cotton
Staffing Level
Senior       Junior         Support    Labor
Station Director                             1                    -       _
Program Direction
Associate Director _ Research Program        1
Crop Improvement                                                                     15
Plant Breeder                                1            2               3
Entomologist                                 1            2               3
Plant Pathologist                            1            2               3
Fiber Technologist                           1            1               2
Crop Production                                                                     15
Agronomist                                   1            2               3
Soil Scientist                               1            2               3
Weed Control Specialist                      -            1               3
Seed Production
Agricultural Engineer                                     1               3
Technical Services                                                                   5 i/
Biometrician                                             21 
Economist                                    1            1               1
Library and Information                                   1               2
Technology Diffusion                                      1               2
Training Officer                                          1               2
Station Manager                                           1               2
TOTAL                              9          2037                        0
Administrative Services
Associate Director _
Administrative Services                    1                    -       _
Finance Officers                                          1               4
Personnel Officers                                        1               3
Purchasing Cfficers                                       1               4
Security Cfficers                                         1                           4 4
Repair and Maintenance                                    1               2          10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                             10
Secretaries (Administrative)                                              2
TOTAL                              1           5              25          14
1/ Includes 40 for general station operations.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAII FOR RUBBER
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Rubber in Agriculture
Production Performance
1.        Rubber is quite unique from the other eight commodity programs
being supported under the project because only a very small portion of local
consumption, approximately 3% per year, is provided from Brazilian cultivated
natural (plantation) rubber. The remaining 97% of natural rubber consumed
in Brazil is either obtained from extractive tapping of wild forest trees
in Amazonia (46%) or from imports (51%). In addition to natural rubber,
synthetic rubber, both of Brazilian manufacture and imported, is used. The
balance of the demand for manufacturing is met by using regenerated rubber.
The relati4e importance of plantation grown natura lruber  an  that ;r2vided
by the extractive source industry, manufacture of synthetic and imports is
shown below:
Rubber Consumption by Source and Type 1973
Quantity in Tons   % by    % of
Item            Source                      Dry Rubber       Type   Total
Natural    Cultivated plantation              1,658           3.2    0.73
"1       Extracted from forest             23,402          45.8   10.25
it       Imported                          26,096          51.0   11.43
Synthetic  Brazilian manufacture            125,620          84.0   55.00
if       Imported                          23,922          16.0   10.47
Regenerated  Brazilian                         27,685         100.0   12.12
228,383           --   100.00
Source: Anuario Estatistico, Mercado Nacional
Superintendencia da Borracha, Ano 7,
Brasil, December 1973.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.        From the above, it will be seen that cultivated rubber currently
plays only a very minor role in supplying consumer requirements. This posi-
tion will further deteriorate, as imports are expected to reach 40,000 tons
by 1975 and 80,000 tons by 1980. The lack of a viable plantation industry
(only four commercial sized units exist at present) further hampers the
transfer of technology which may be developed under the research program.
This is further discussed under special program objectives (para 15).
Potentials and Constraints to Production
3.        Since the Amazon basin is the home of the natural rubber tree
(Hevea spp) and there is a wide range of native species of Hevea which
produce natural rubber (latex) of commercial quality, the potential for
commercial rubber production would appear, at first glance, to be enormous.
However, the South American leaf blight (Microcyclus ulei) has effectively
nullified repeated attempts to establish commercial plantations such as have
been developed in the Far East where selections of high yielding Hevea bra-
siliensis clones from the Amazon are used but where the debilitating South
American leaf blight does not occur. To this day the presence of the leaf
blight disease remains the major constraint to plantation-type rubber produc-
tion in Amazonia. The only reason that an extractive, as opposed to a
plantation-type, industry has been able to survive is the relative resis-
tance of manv low yielding spoc;es wkich. q- sonttered   reh           t t - forest,
thus avoiding any potential buildup of the disease, as would occur in
formal plantings. In addition to low yields per tree and per unit area,
however, the tapping methods used produce rubber of low quality when com-
pared to that produced under plantation conditions. The major constraint
to production, therefore, remains closely related to the future potertial
for development of a successful plantation-type industry, as opposed to
haphazard extractive tapping of native trees. The future of the plantation
industry, as we have seen, does, in turn, depend greatly upon the effective
control of the leaf blight disease.
Demand Outlook
4.        Brazil currently (1973) consumes 51,156 tons of natural rubber
yearly but only 49% (25,060 tons) of this was produced in Brazil. Data
supplied by the Superintendencia da Borracha (SUDHEVEA) indicates that, by
1980, the portion supplied by native rubber extraction would meet only 32%
of total requirements (80,000 tons). Even to retain the current position,
therefore, Brazil would need to increase natural rubber production to
39,200 tons or by 14,140 tons, a 56% increase over the seven-year period.
Demand estimates for rubber consumption are unusually difficult to define
in Brazil, as they are closely related to industrial or economic development



ANNEX 8
Page 3
in general. However, the fact that Brazil only uses 2.45 kg of rubber per
capita per year indicates that there is considerable opportunity for upward
adjustment of the figures quoted. 1/
B. Present Status of Rubber Research
5.        The three Government sponsored agencies which have been responsible
for rubber research in the past are the Executive Commission for the Economic
Recuperation of the Cacao Industry (CEPLAC), the Instituto de Pesquisas
Agropecuarias do Leste (IPEAL), and the Instituto de Pesquisas Agropecuarias
do Norte (IPEAN). Their work has been sponsored, and partially funded,
through SUDHEVEA. In addition, the three commercial rubber firms still active
in rubber production in Brazil --- Firestone Plantations at Itubera, Goodyear
Marathon Plantation, and Pirelli, Guama Agro-industrial with the Taiboca
Plantation at Marituba --- have all contributed to research on a commercial
basis and have provided considerable cooperation with Government research
programs.
6.        The CEPLAC and IPEAL research programs have concentrated on (a) soil
and plant nutrition studies; (b) plant physiology of the producing rubber
tree; (c) plant pathology, with emphasis on South American leaf blight control,
and screening or disease-resistant clones; (d) entomology with empnasis on
chemical and biological control of pests, mainly the moth (Erinnyis ello);
(e) selection and improvement of high yielding disease-resistant clones; and
(f) economic studies on production from native and cultivated trees. Currently,
there are 187 clones registered in the clonal garden collections at CEPLAC/
IPEAL.
7.        The major constraints to achieving a significant advance in the
industry through research remain, as they have been for the past 50 years,
since the Ford Motor Company established plantations at Fordlandia and Belterra,
the need to overcome losses due to the ravages of the South American leaf
blight disease. All attempts since that time to obtain adequate control of
the disease, economically, and to allow for a reasonable return on investment
in plantation rubber enterprises have failed. Only limited success has been
achieved in i-dentifying highly resistant clones with acceptable yields and
the more recent attempts to obtain adequate control of the disease through
use of fungicides have also proved economically unfeasible. Attention is now
being focused on the application of systemic fungicides to reduce costs, which
are always high in the case of tree crops such as rubber, where the foliage
canopy must be protected.
1/   Comparative figures are 1.5 for Argentina, 5.5 for Canada, 6.5 for
Europe, and 9 kg for the USA.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
II. THE NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR RUBBER
A. General Description
8.        The main thrust of the program would initially be to review
the current status of research land, and, based on the findings, formulate
the national program designed to achieve national goals. In the short term,
consideration must be given to the possibility of maintaining and eventually
improving the output and quality of the rubber being harvested from native
trees (extractive industry). This could readily be achieved through exist-
ing technology, namely (a) use of stimulants to promote latex flow, (b) control
of tapping methods to prolong productive life of selected forest trees, and
(c) improvement of methods and equipment used for handling and processing
of the latex produced by establishing acceptable grades within the extrac-
tive industry.
9.        In the long term, the basic goal would be to develop relatively
disease-free, high yielding clones adaptable to plantation type culture
to ensure the strong foundation necessary for a viable rubber industry.
Considerable advances have already been made in this area but the sense of
urgency necessary to achieve a significant breakthrough is stijl  iaclking.
The basic economics of a viable plantation rubber industry for the vast
potential of Amazonia must be determined at an early stage. The major con-
straints, so far, have been those related to the rather long development
period necessary for the establishment of plantations, i.e., six to seven
years before initial returns accrue to the investment, and it is believed
that a viable plantation industry cannot be achieved until these financial
difficulties covering the development period are resolved by means of long-
term credit or other fiscal incentives provided by the Government, possibly
through the SUDHEVEA agency.
10.       Since demonstration and field testing of research results are
essential steps in any research program of this nature, it is also true that
investment in research on rubber cannot be warranted unless these necessary
incentives to promote a viable plantation industry become an effective com.-
plement to the research effort.
Agro-ecological Coverage
11.       Ideal climatic conditions for rubber cultivation are to be found
in the wet tropics of Amazonia, particularly in the states of Amazonia and
Para, except in the extreme north, and in the Federal Territories of Amapa
and Rondonia, and extending as far south as Cuiaba in Northern Mato Grosso.
Although rainfall is in excess of 2,200 mm in this general area, the best
conditions for rubber cultivation are to be found where a distinct dry season



ANNEX 8
Page 5
of three to four months occurs. For this reason, the area around Belem,
which has no distinct dry season, is less favorable to rubber cultivation
because of heavy incidence of the South American leaf blight. The area
presents a very wide range of soil types, predominantly with only low
to medium fertility; soils favoring rubber culture are normally yellow
latosols and red-yellow podzolic soils. More important is the physical
condition, permeability and depth of soil, since rubber is deep rooting and
also requires proper drainage. For this reason, the largest concentration
of natural rubber is to be found in the drainage basins of the headwaters
of the rivers in the Amazon basin where drainage is adequate.
12.       The other, much more limited, area for rubber cultivation is in
southern Bahia state in the Ileus, Itabuna region. Here an area of approxi-
2
mately 20,000 km , consisting of red to yellow oxisols of sedimentary origin
and lying on well-drained table lands at approximately 600 m elevation,
appears to be adequate for rubber cultivation on a commercial scale. Geo-
graphically at 14.50S, it lies outside the recommended latitudes of 100 north
or south of the equator and this may explain the slightly slower growth noted
for rubber in this region. Rainfall tends to be low, at 1,500 to 2,000 mm
annually, with a distinct four-month dry season. The latter, however, may
well be the reason for low incidence of disease in the area. Further details
on these agro-ecological areas are given in Annexes 12 and 14.
Program Goals
13.       Production of 1,500 kg/ha of dry rubber would be considered viable
as a commercial enterprise. However, the criteria of rubber production
(latex) per tree, as opposed to unit area, must be used as an early guide in
the selection of suitable high yielding clones for the research program, and
the first priority must be to find a sufficiently high degree of resistance
to, or economical control of, the South American leaf blight disease. Until
this is accomplished, and with a fairly high degree of success, there seems
little possibility of establishing a viable rubber industry based on planta-
tion culture. Both actual and projected demands for domestic use, even
given a wide margin for error, would seem to assure a ready market for all
rubber which could be produced within the next several decades.
Program Components
14.       In order to execute the desired program on disease resistance and
clonal selection, the following would be provided under the project:
(a) civil works for adequate laboratory and research facilities at
the research station of Manaus (Commodity Research Program
Headquarters) and for satellite (sub-station) activities at
Belem. Facilities at CEPLAC, Bahia are considered sufficiently
well-equipped at present;



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(b) research farm development at IManaus and Belem;
(c) equipment, furnishings and vehicles for use at M4anaus and Belem;
(d) library, documentation, and information services at the two
stations mentioned above;
(e) technical services including consultants and fellowship programs;
(f) land purchase at Manaus; and
(g) incremental establishment costs of the project during a five-year
period. Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1,
2 and 3.
Special Program Objectives
15.       As noted earlier (para 1), the commodity research program for rubber
is unique among the other eight commodities selected for support under the
project because (a) the crop requires at least seven years to reach maturity,
i.e., tapping size; (b) the commercial (plantation) rubber industry is currently
not well established in Brazil so that research results would, initially,
benefit only a few plantation owners; and (c) resultinq from the above. there
is a severe lack of established rubber plantings sufficiently representative
both in size and geographic distribution, to serve as field test plots for
the research program. In view of the lengthy period necessary to establish
such a network of plots of sufficient size and scope, it would be essential
for the success of the project to ensure that the establishment of such demon-
stration plots moves parallel to the research program itself.
B. Detailed Features
Selection of High Yielding, Disease-Resistant Clones
16.       Using two main sources of genetic materials, i.e., the clonal collec-
tions of CEPLAC, Bahia, and the wide selection of species and varieties to be
found in the Amazon forests, the plant breeders, plant physiologists and entomo-
logists and pathologists would assemble elite materials for crossing and/or
vegetative propagation as clones.
Soils and Nutrition
17.       Soil scientists, working with production agronomists and the agro-
climatologist, would identify soil conditions that influence yield and would
identify the conditions which are optimum for latex production under the various
sets of soil/plant/water relationships to be found in the prescribed agro-
ecological area.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Cultivation Practices
18.       The agronomists, working closely with the plant physiologists and
economists, would define the farming systems packages which would offer
optimum returns under various systems of clean cultivation, use of cover
crops, inter-planting and spacing distances influenced by total land use
methods, and leaf disease incidence. In the wider spacings and after trees
are sufficiently mature, ribbon planting with rubber/livestock combinations
may also be attempted.
Economic Studies
19.       In addition to performing production and marketing studies, the
economists would investigate the problems of income sources during the
initial seven-year period until trees are ready to yield.
C. Organization and Management
20.       The national rubber research program team would be headquartered
at Manaus. The station director would have overall responsibility for admin-
istration of the headquartcr        L s  a_L '      e saSt  EMB-APA '
nity relations at the center. He would be assisted by an advisory council 1/
and two associate directors--one for administrative services, usually function-
ing as the financial and procurement officer, and one for the implementation
of the research program.
21.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs), and
other cooperating institutions concerned with research on rubber, and the
application of new technology in rubber production would be achieved through
contacts between the team leader and representatives of the appropriate
research programs at these stations. An annual workshop would be held
at which current activities would be evaluated and plans for the research
program for the coming years would be made. Inputs from producers would
be obtained at such workshops, or field days in the distinct sub-areas of
major production. As a member of the advisory council, the associate director
for research would provide the necessary liaison between the council and
producers (see also Annex 17).
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership).



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Research Facilities
22.       The National Rubber Research Center to be established at Manaus
would require a minimum of 1,000 ha, plus laboratory facilities for soil
science, plant physiology, plant pathology, entomology, plant breeding,
economic research and latex processing. Adequate laboratory facilities
at Belem are already available, but additional field laboratories for
handling latex would be added under the project.
Collaborating Institutions
23.       There would be close cooperation with CEPLAC at Itabuna, Bahia
on all matters relating to the program of research for the production area
in that state, and the very complete rubber research facilities there would
be made available to the National Program of Research. The Firestone and
Goodyear companies have also expressed an interest in collaborating with
the National Program.
Research Network
24.       Currently, there is no network of research stations devoted
exclusively to rubber research. Therefore, one of the major tasks of
the program leader would be to establish one. The present skeleton
status of cooperating units is shown in Tabie 4.
University Contract Research
25.       The Federal University of Para (UFP), Belem, Para and the Agronomic
Institute at Campinas have been engaged in specific problems concerning
rubber cultivation in the past. Their collaboration would be on a contract
basis and they would be asked to undertake specific problems of a basic and
long-range nature under the approved program of research.
D. Staffing
26.       Almost all new staff would have to be assigned under the program.
There is only a small nucleus currently engaged in rubber research at Belem,
or less than 10% of manpower requirements for the new program. The National
Commodity Center at Manaus would have a staff of 84 professionals at full
development, plus 31 supporting staff. In addition, there would be 23 pro-
fessionals and 16 supporting staff at Belem. A detailed staff list is given
in Table 5.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
E. Training and Fellowship Program
27.       A training officer would be allocated to the Manaus Center and it
would be his duty to assist staff members with their professional development
within program needs. The training component of the project would provide
for the training of 34 to the M.Sc. level and six to the Ph.D. level. In
addition, 20 short courses would be available for the upgrading of staff
within the program in specific areas of study related to rubber research and
development. Details of this program are given in Table 2.
F. Consultants
28.       To further supplement the availability of trained scientists to
provide the necessary program leadership during the early stages of project
development, the project would supply the following consultancy services:
(a) a total of six man-years of long-term consultancy
services; and
(b) an additional 5.5 years of short-term consultancy service.
Specialists provided would be a production agronomist, a plant
pathologist, a plant physiologist, and a rubber processing
specialist. Details of consultant services to be provided
are given in Table 2.
G. Linkages to International Centers
29.       None of the eight International Research Centers deals with rubber
as a specific commodity program. However, the International Institute of
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) is particularly interested in matters dealing
with environmental changes where the humid tropics are being brought under
cultivation. Rubber, as a tree crop, offers an interesting opportunity for
study under such a program since it relates closely to the utilization of
forest resources in the Amazon basin. In addition, there are several private
organizations dealing with rubber, as a plantation crop, which have offered
their services commercially for specific studies on aspects of rubber culti-
vation in the humid tropics. The majority of these have had wide experience
in Southeast Asia and in Africa.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
III. COST ESTIMATES
30.       The cost for the National Research Program for Rubber for the
five-year period would be approximately US$11.4 million. The estimated
costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Rubber
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$ '000)
Center 1/
Development Costs
Civil Works 2/                                         1,699
Land Purchase                                             348
Laboratory Equipment 2/                                  350
Furniture 2/                                              46
Research FArm Development 3/                             100
Farm Equipment 4/                                        100
Vehicles 5/                                               215
Library, Documentation and
Information Services 6/                                150
Technical Services 7/
Research Specialists                                     862.5
Fellowships - long term                                   791
Fellowships - short term                                  140
Establishment Cost 8/                                  6,566.5
TOTAL                                       11,368.0
1/ At present, no UEPAE is working with rubber in the project area.
7/ Details are given in Annex 15.
7/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
:/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
F/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRiCULfU'RAL Ri',SEAPrZC  I PROJECT
National Research Program for Rubber
Technical Services
Research Specialists                    Long Term       Short Term         Unit Cost               Total
Man-years       Man-years               _(constant 1976 1U3$)
Program, Ad-visor/Consultants                              L.5              75,000                  200
Agronomist                                  3                               75,000                300,000
Plant Pathologist                           1                               75,000                150,000
Plant Physiologist                                 1                        75,000                150,000
Processing Specialist                      1                                75,000                150,0
862,500
Suv t o . Ot al
Fe-I ,::lhips                       No. of Particitants
.,_1. A/; TC L            27                              11,000                297,000
M.Sc. abro':ad    (2 yrs.)                7                              26,000                182,000
M.Se. abroaa  (2 yrs.)                    7                              16,500 _
R,.;D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                                               52,000                312,000
Ph.D. abroa-d (4 yrs.)                    6                               2
20                               7,000                140,000
_ 931,000
T02AL                                                                                 1,793,2500
December 15, 1975
December 15, 1975



A  LL
ACRICUITURAL RESEtRltC'i I FR(JECT
Research Program for Rubber
A.  Staff Development Pattern 1/
B. Schedule of Estab>ishment C,ost 2/
-Project. Year
1        2        3
A. *. >'umber of Senior Scientists (Ph.D.. M.Sc.)        17       25        29       31 L12
idtinber of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)               26        39        652
B. Salaries                                            881    1,321    1,5hl    1,761    2,201.5             7,705-
COther (.,eratinF EnqenEes                         261.     3cl6      6i6       7O11     881.0          ?    x6.0
Evt.iblishronerd Cost. of the Frcgrnrm 2/        2,1 LL    1,717    2,157    2,265    908?.5           1C2R60 5
Current Estabjish_nert  Cost 3,1                   80?       800      800       800      8no.0          i,90O .0
Incremental Estah].ishment. Cost                  31XG      917    i,357    1,665    2,282.'            6,,66 Q
-(constmnt in 1976  TS.'O00)
1/  Includes scientists working at the ARC in Belem.
2/  Establishment cost comnrises salary and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first t'.o years and 40% of salaries for years 3 to 5.  (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EXBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station*
cD C
Dacember 15, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table h
BRAZII,
AiGRICLFTL'-1RAL RESBAILCH I PROJECT
Research Station Het;.:ork for V'ational Research
Prg2ram for Rubber
1   Funded by Proiect
Designated
Namne          Desig.nation         State         Role Tithii rrogrr_  1/
IManaus                NICC           Amazonas          I    II    II1
Belem                  ARC              Para.           I    IT      IT
2.  Not Funded by Project
Rio Branco            UAPAL             Acre                  II    ITI
Porto Velho           UEPk.T^,        Roncic-i1ia             II    III
3.  Co'laboratina Institutions
Faculdade de
Ciencia-s Agrar-
ias do Parm-        Belem             Para                               TV
CEPLAC/CEPEC       Itabuna            Bahia                              TV
1 /
-  The folow,rinr  code )-p-hsJLes  tC5Jg-n-teC  rosef rc? :.c:ivit:
I = Core   e sn   c rch
IT - Adaptive and 1d. rtive .ese rcE;
III = farming Syste.-s P esearch and Technclogy transfer
TV = Contract JResearcri
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Rubber
Staffing Level
Senior      Junior         Support       labor
Station Director                       1           -               -            _
Program Direction
Associate Director -
Research Program                      1           -               _            _
Crop Improvement                                                               20
Plant Breeder                          2            2               4
Entomologist                           1            1               2
Plant Pathologist                      i            2               4
Processing Chemist                    2.            2               4
Processing Engineer                    -            1               2
Plant Physiologist                     1            1               2
Crop Production                                                                15
Agronoinist                            1            4               6
Soil Scientist                         1            2              4
Weed Cnort=. --^^a-                    -            1               2
Propagator                             -            1               6
Agricultural Engineer                  -            1               2
Technical Services                                                             45 1/
Biometrician                                        1               1
Economist                                           1               1
Library & Information                               1               2
Technology Diffusion                                1               2
Training Officer                                    1               2
Plantation Manager                                  1               4
TOTAL                      10           2               5            g:
Adlministrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Service                1           -               -            -
Finance Officer                        -            1               4            -
Personnel Cfficer                      -            1               3            -
Purchasing Officer                     -            1               4            -
Security Officer                       -            1               -            4
Repair/Maintenance                     -            1               2          10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                       10
Secretaries (Administrative)                                        2
TOTAL                       1           7                            TIT
I/ Includes 35 for general station operations.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR BEEF CATTLE
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Beef Cattle in Agriculture
1.        Brazil has the world's fourth largest cattle population, and,
while yields are now quite low, the country has considerable potential for
further beef cattle development. Current population of cattle in Brazil
is estimated at 80,584,000 head. Of these, 33.5% are in the Southeast,
22.1% in the South, 20.9% in the Northeast, 20.6% in the Central-West and
only 2.3% in the North (Amazonia). Pure beef herds account for only 49.6%
of this total, 35.5% are mixed (beef/dairy) herds and 14.9% are pure dairy-
cattle herds. Total beef produced in 1971 was 1.8 million tons. Some con-
straints to Brazilian meat exports are the existence in some areas of hoof
and mouth disease and fluctuations in the quantities offered. Export volumes
have varied considerablv since 1960. After a slight decline in 1971 due to
intervention by the Federal Government, to give priority to the domestic
supply, exports reached in 1972 a record/level of 181,700 tons worth
US$219,700,000, or about 5.5% of the country's total export earnings during
that year.
2.        In order for Brazil to maintain or increase its export market in
beef and hold a competitive position, it must first reduce fluctuations in
supply and bring about considerably increased yields per ha. In order to do
this, however, existing improved technology must be more widely applied.
Potentials and Constraints to Production
3.        Of Brazil's total grazing land area of about 146 million ha, only
27.4% (40.0 million ha) consists of "improved" pastureland and the remainder,
72.6% (106.0 million ha), is made up of natural pastureland, which has low
cattle carrying capacity, especially during the dry season. The main reasons
for low herd productivity, however, relate to animal health. The herds suffer
from nutritional deficiencies and various diseases (hoof and mouth, brucello-
sis, rabies, anthrax) which, in addition to causing an excessive mortality
rate and reducing the birth rate, also results in low production of meat and
milk due to a decline in the animal growth rate.
4.        The average birth rate of the Brazilian beef cattle population is
said to be less than 53%, which is very low when compared to the results
obtained on some ranches, which show rates of 80 to 85%. Another indication
of the rather weak development of the nation's cattle herds is the mortality



ANNEX 9
Page 2
rate, particularly in calves less than one year old, when it is about 10%.
The average beef cattle death rate is 3.8%. Also, the beef cattle popula-
tion density, that is to say, the average carrying capacity, on the basis
of pasture area, remains low at an average of 1.8 head per ha. In the case
of natural pastureland, this average drops down to only 0.5 head per ha.
The carrying capacity depends, above all, upon the dry season or the rainy
season, as follows:
Average Capacity of Natural and Artificial Pastureland by Agro-ecological
Region, Brazil (1971)
Average Carrying Capacity (head/hectare)
Natural Pasture              Improved Pasture
Rainy Season   Dry Season    Rainy Season Dry Season
North                1.3               0.9             4.6          2.3
Northeast            0.8               0.4             3.4          2.1
Southeast            1.0               0.6             2.2          1.6
South                0.7               0.5             3.0          2.4
Central-West         0.5               0.3             1.6          1.0
Brazil               0.8               0.5             2.9          1.8
Source: SUPLAN.
Demand Outlook for Domestic and Export Markets
5.        Brazilian domestic consumption is currently (1973) 16 kg/capita
(1.4 million tons) and population increase is 2.9% per year. Based on these
calculations, a 1970 population of 92.3 million and an assumed demand elasti-
city of 0.5, internal demand could reach 1.8 million tons by 1980. Export
demand will, of course, depend on many factors but, provided the present
pricing policies of greater parity between domestic and world price for beef
are continued, then a net increase of up to 3.5% per year, on a 1972 export
total of 155,600 tons, might well be maintained assuming that there is no
further deterioration in the economies of the major importing countries.
This would indicate a 1980 export demand of 250,000 tons and an annual total
production goal of at least 2.0 million tons by that year.
6.        The strategy to be used in supplying this additional output is
two-fold. First, there would be further improvement in areas of the South
where much can still be done by extending the benefits of existing knowledge
over a wide range of producers. In the Northeast, much work still needs
to be done to reduce losses, particularly during the prolonged dry season,
and appropriate farming systems, involving not only beef cattle but sheep
and goats, must be evolved and demonstrated. In the Central-West, also,
much has still to be learned concerning the adaptation of the cerrado soils
to produce adequate grazing, although selection of improved grasses adaptable
to some cerrado conditions has already been demonstrated. In the North,



ANNEX 9
Page 3
problems of animal health and management practices are of greater importance
and establishment of improved pastures has proved less difficult. Here, the
use of water buffalo shows considerable promise, both for meat and milk.
In all areas, however, the factors affecting the meat supply growth rate are
closely related to overall management, health and nutrition factors.
B. Present Status of Beef Cattle Research
7.        Nationally, there is very little beef cattle research being done
on the major problems facing the industry. Some research projects are
listed for all states of the Northeast, but the lack of the research imple-
mentation structure, as well as the lack of trained research teams and finan-
cial resources, has produced a situation in which there is practically no
real contribution from research to the improvement of productivity at the
farm level, and the level of technology adopted by the cattlemen is generally
low. There are several factors responsible for this situation, the most
important among them being the lack of contact between the research teams
and the producers. Research studies are, for the most part, concerned with
comparison between fodder species, fertilization and general pasture improve-
ment but they have usually not been accompanied by adequate cost-factor
analysis, with land inputs appropriately valued. The lack of joint program-
ming among the agencies involved in research has also led to the proliferation
of isolated studies, with results of limited importance to ranchers.
8.        Among research activities recently programmed for the Northeast, a
pastureland improvement and management program is now being set up on the
basis of an agreement between the Bank of Northeast Brazil (BNB) and EMlBRAPA
and financed by the Central Bank (BACEN). The BNB will act as financing agent
and will supervise program implementation through its Northeast Economic
Studies Department (ETENE), which administers the Fund for Scientific and
Technological Development (FUNDECI). The program will also have the support
of the UNDP-funded Northeast Livestock Development Project (BRA/71/552), which
is being executed on the basis of an agreement between the Brazilian Govern-
ment and FAO. This program, to be developed with 22 demonstration plots in
six states, has the following main objectives:
(a) analysis of promising beef cattle farming systems;
(b) demonstration of pastureland improvement and management with
sites for the introduction and trial of fodder species; and
(c) phosphate fertilization of pastureland and the palatability of
introduced pasture species.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
9.        As the principal agency promoting agricultural and livestock
research, EMBRAPA is now responsible for the technical aspects of this pro-
gram, including coordination of experimental activities and analysis and
evaluation of results.
10.       Since 1973, the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Agropecuaria
(CONDEPE) has also been responsible for a technical assistance program to
farmers and an applied husbandry research program in the South and Central-
West areas of Brazil (Bank Loan 868-BR - Interim Livestock Project).  Research
activity under this project has concentrated mainly on demonstrating pasture
improvement techniques and herd management in the states of Santa Catarina,
Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, and Mato Grosso. Plans are now under way to
transfer the research component of this project to EMBRAPA.
II. THE NATIONAL BEEF CATTLE RESEARCH PROGRAMI
A. General Description of Project
Agro-ecological Coverage
11.       Although the national orogram woolAl be res-on--4 fr-h^ -r_-_
tion and coordination of beef-cattle research throughout the country, activi-
ties leading to an improvement in beef production would primarily be focused
on the following areas: Central-West (Campos Cerrados), the "agreste" and
'mlata" areas of the Northeast and the humid tropics (Amazonia).  In the humid
tropics, work would initially be limited to research with buffalo in the state
of Para and on dual purpose (dairy/beef) cattle in the north of the state of
Mato Grosso.
Program Goals
12.       Basically, the goals would be to maintain Brazil's position of self-
sufficiency for domestic demand and, at the same time, strengthen the export
position, consistent with opportunities in that area, which would appear to
represent no more than 14% of total production, i.e., 1.8 million tons domestic
and up to 0.25 million tons of export demand in 1980. The first step in attain-
ing the above goals and objectives would be the promotion of research, as may
be needed, to find out how to:
(a) provide more adequate year-round nutrition to grazing animals
through pasture improvement and supplemental nutrition;
(b) control major diseases more effectively;



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(c)  improve management practices to increase reproduction and
growth rates; and
(d)  more effectively provide the necessary incentives, credit
facilities and efficient marketing systems.
13.       The second step is to define precisely the production packages for
different situations and get them applied. Once the information is at hand,
the rate at which production would accelerate would depend on how rapidly
the technological packages worked out for each region are applied. This, in
turn, would depend a great deal on incentives in which input cost/production
price relationships would play a major role.
14.       The yield and production goals to meet projected (1980) requirements
are indicated in the table below.
Beef Cattle: Beef Supply Increase for 1980 Based on 1970 Actual Data
1980
Item                                  1970          (Projected)
Breeding Age (months)                           42-54             30-42
Slaughter Age (months)                          48-60             30-42
Birth Rate (%)                                  40-50             70-80
Death Rate (%)                                    7-8              4-5
Slaughter Rate (%)                              11-12             20-22
Average Carcass Weight (kg)                    192.6             210.0
Cattle Population (1,000 head)                  80,584           103,740
Dam Population (1,000 head)                     28,285            37,776
Source:  EMBRAPA and mission estimates, July 15, 1975.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Program Components
15.       The National Research Program for Beef Cattle is designed to
strengthen research capability and to respond more readily to the require-
ments of the beef cattle industry. The project components to be provided
under the project are:
(a) civil works at the research stations of Campo Grande,
Cuiaba' and Itapetinga to complete necessary laboratories
and research facilities;
(b) research farm development;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at the stations
mentioned;
(d) library documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs; and
(f) establishment costs during a five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Table 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
16.       Priorities in research would vary from area to area and could
be determined only by an adequate survey of factors limiting production.
In general, however, emphasis would be on activities as described below.
Animal Nutrition
17.       Improvement of production and nutritional value of native and
introduced pasture species adapted to the various ecological conditions of
the different regions would be a major effort, involving (a) evaluation of
native and exotic grasses and legumes for their nutritive value, yield
and production stability under various types of environmental stress; (b)
development of efficient methods for seed production, and introduction and
establishment of selected grasses and legumes; (c) improvement of pasture
management practices, including fertilization, weed control and carrying
capacity under prevailing environmental conditions; (d) determination and
establishment of mineral supplements in accordance with requirements of
various animal categories under different feeding conditions and forage
availability in the region; and (e) increasing production and conservation
of native spontaneous or cultivated fodder crops for cattle feeding during
periods of pasture shortage.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Animal Health
18.       Studies would aim at determining the principal agents or causes
affecting the state of animal health in order to prevent and control in-
fectious and contageous diseases; prevent and control ecto- and endoparasites;
and maintain hygienic conditions and take preventive measures among cattle
herds. Studies of the physiology of reproduction would also be undertaken.
Herd Management Practices
19.       Research would aim at determining the most efficient herd manage-
ment practices during the breeding, reproduction and finishing phases for
the acceleration of production for various producer categories. Special
emphasis would be given to studies of management practices that increase
calving and animal growth rates and decrease diseases.
Farming Systems
20.       Research would be done to determine the best life cycle for beef
production systems for both large and small operaLors. Special aLtenLion
would be given to the development of family size operations. Studies would
also deal with beef production systems where beef production might be in-
cluded in farming systems with food or feed crops such as maize and cassava.
Breeding
2i.       Researchl in breediTig would priritarily be coLceiLL1ed wiLh Lhe develop-
ment of genetically more productive herds and production of more efficient
animals for each ecological condition through cross-breeding.
Economics
22.       Studies would be made on the physical and economic factors of beef
cattle production and sales systems aimed at providing cattlemen with in-
formation that would help them increase their output through the use of
new practices derived from research information obtained.
C. Organization and Management
23.       The national beef cattle research program team would be head-
quartered at Campo Grande. The station director would have overall respons-
ibility for administration of the headquarters station and would represent
EMBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an
advisory council 1/ and two associate directors -- one for administraLive
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and
one for the implementation of the research program.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
example of membership).



ANNEX 9
Page 8
24.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs) and
other cooperating institutions concerned with research on beef cattle and
the application of new technology in beef cattle production would be achieved
through contacts between the team leader and representatives of the appropriate
research programs at these stations. An annual workshop would be held at
which current activities would be evaluated and plans for the research program
for the coming years would be made. Inputs from producers would be obtained
at such workshops, or field days, in the distinct sub-areas of major produc-
tion. As a member of the advisory council, the associate director for re-
search would provide the necessary liaison between the council and producers
(see also Annex 17).
Research Facilities
25.       Facilities to be provided at the National Beef Research Center at
Campo Grande, where 4,500 ha of land are available, would include adequate
pasture, holding pens, animal chute stabling for experimental animals, and
laboratories for veterinary, animal nutrition, soils, agronomy and seed
improvement. Animal slaughter is to be carried out at a nearby commercial
facility, but station facilities would include a meats laboratory for ex-
perimental use. At the satellite stations (UEPAEs), which are also desig-
nated as part of the research network, the following land areas are avail-
able: Itapetinga, 200 ha and Cuiabd', 500 ha. These stations would
be equipped with a livestock/crop facility including the necessary field
laboratory for animal handling and demonstration plots for work at the
farm level. In the case of the two Agricultural Research Centers at
Planaltina and Belem, where cooperative work would be carried out under
differing agro-ecological conditions, the facilities would also include
laboratories for the analysis of soils and animal nutrition related to
pasture management aspects of beef cattle research.
Research Station Network
26.       The total research network for beef cattle would comprise work
at five research stations under the project. In addition, there would be
five UEPAEs, not funded by the project, but engaged in adaptive research
and technology transfer both within and outside the project area. There
are also 10 Agricultural Research Institutes, Schools of Agronomy or
Faculties of Agriculture in the Northeast, South and Southeast regions
which would be available for university contract research programs
related to the project (see also Table 4 for details).
University Contract Research
27.       As with other national commodity programs, university contract
research would be requested through EMBRAPA headquarters, Brasilia (see
Annex 17). Rather than accept programs presented by the universities,



ANNEX 9
Page 9
the plan should be to request university participation as and when needed and
confine the requests to carefully selected areas of research where answers
are needed for clearly defined problems of a basic nature where specific
laboratory facilities and discipline-oriented inputs are more readily
available and can, at the same time, provide graduate study for university
educational problems. Care would always be provided, however, to see that
duplication of effort is avoided and that specific problems related to the
current research program are given national rather than regional importance.
Technical Program Structure and Management
28.       An annual workshop would be held for the evaluation of current ac-
tivities and for the planning, coordination and execution of work for the
coming year. Key individuals concerned with the acceleration and improve-
ment of beef production, regardless of how they are employed, would parti-
cipate in these workshops. The purpose would be to promote a harmonious,
well planned and coordinated effort in the improvement of beef production
on a rational basis, while devoting adequate attention to problems of a
regional nature, as well as to those of the beef cattle industry as a whole.
D. Staffing
29.       Staff requirements at full scale operation call for 68 professional
staff and 31 administrative support staff at the Campo Grande center. In
addition, 64 professional staff and 32 support staff would be directly in-
volved with the program at the satellite stations mentioned. As in many of
the other commodity programs, only 10% of the number of staff required is
available. Further, most of the staff would need to be developed and em-
phasis would be on in-service training. A training officer has been included
for the planning and supervision of this program (see also Table 5).
E. Training and Fellowship Program
30.       In conjunction with the in-service training, certain individuals
will be encouraged to study for the advanced degrees or to participate in
special short courses. The project provides fellowships for six individuals
to study toward Ph.D. degrees and 42 toward M.Sc. degrees while 18 staff
members would be encouraged to participate in special short courses related
to their area of research (see also Table 2).



ANNEX 9
Page 10
F. Consultants
31.       A total of 5.5 man-years are made available under the project for
use of the national beef cattle research program and assignments would be
made according to specific needs (see also Table 2). Emphasis would be
placed on satisfying the need for livestock management specialist.
G. Linkages with External Organizations
32.       Where both desirable and feasible the research team, through the
team leader/coordinator, would solicit the assistance and collaboration of
the outreach programs of the International Center for Tropical Agriculture
(CIAT) for pertinent research and in-service training activities. Certain
universities in the USA and Europe might also be able to help in specific
studies and an attempt would be made to bring specific talent to bear in
the solution of specific problems, as may be required (see also Annex 17).
III. COST ESTIMATES
33.       The cost for the National Research Program for Beef Cattle for
the five-year period would be approximately US$15.4 million. The estimated
costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Beef Cattle
Project Cost
(constant 1976 U$1'000)
Center                UEPAEs 1/            Tetal
US$                   US$                  U-s
Development Costs
Civil Works 2/                    153                   322                   475
Land Purchase                      -                      -                    -
Laboratory Equipment 2/                                   88                   88
Furniture 2/                        6                     11                   17
Research Farm Development 3/      100-                                        100
Farm Equipment 4/                 100                     78                  178
Vehicles 5/                       215                     88                  303
Library, Bocumentation and        150                     69                  219
Information Services 6/
Technical Services 7/
Research Specialists                                                          412.5
Fellowships - long term                                                       843.5
Fellowships - short term                                                      126.0
Establishment Cost 8/                                                      12,643.0
TOTAL                                                           15,405
1/ Two UEPAEs working with beef cattle.  Sir.ce all UEPAEs work with several commodi-
ties, UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are calculated
using a fermula which reflects the number of research teams working at different
UEPAEs with that particular commodity (see Annex 16, Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Table 15.
5/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
5/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
F/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



AGRICULTURAL RFESEACT I PROJECT
National Research Program for Beef Cattle
Technical Services
Research Specialists                    Long Term      Short Term         Unit Cost               Total
,Man-years     Man--years                (constant 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                 -             ].5              75,000                112,500
Livestock Management                       3              ]                75,OOO                300,000
Specialist
Subtotal                                                                                         412,500
Fe I  I() shn'.1,s  1/             No. of Participants
'-rsTe, ;r,
fl.S.ini raz4l (2 yrs.)                 35                              11,000                385,000
M.Sc. abroai (2 yrs.)                     7                              26,000               182,000
Ph. iin 2Zr-zil (3 yrs.)                 1                              16,500                 16,500
Ph.D. abs-3ad (4 yrs.)                   5                               52,000               260,000
Short Terl                               18                               7,000               126,000
St';otal                                                                                  -       969,500
TOTAL                                                                                1,382.000
1t/ Includes fellowshdps for people working at the UEPAEz .N
December 15, 1975



AGMIC'ULTURAL RESELA'CH 1 PROJECT
Research ProVram fcr Beef Cattle
A.  Staff Deielopmenr  Pattern  l/
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost  2/
---------Project Year                    -otal
1        :'        3         y-.
A.  .Tumber of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)        22        32       38        43 214
''umber of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)              31        147       5        62        78
a.  Salaries                                        1,096 1,6)i3    1,`17    2,190    2,738                  9,$83
Other Operating ExpenEes                         32?      1453       767      876    1,09o               3,K60
Establishment Ccost of the Program 2/          l6  2 ,134 3 16      ,6)4    3         3,833             13,1)43
Current Establishment Cost 3/                   i1O        100       100      l0O       100                500
Incremental Establishment Ccst                 l,324    2,036    2,$8b1   2,966    3,733               12,6)43
-_--------------- (constant in 1976 US$tOOO) -----------
1/  Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2/  Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different sGaff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for year 3 to 5. (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.    b 2
CDe
December 15, 1975



AN2TEX 9
BRA ZiL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PThDJECT
Research Station NTetwork for National Research
rogr.-in for Beef Cattle
Designated
;,-mne         3esifflnat ion      State          Role within prozr -1/
1. Funded by Project
Carnpo C-rande        FTCC          Iato Gros3o             I    TI    III
Planaltina             FRC          Brasilia D.F.                TI   ITI
Belem                 ARC           Para                    I    II    III
Itapetinga            UEPAE         Bahi,a                       II    I
Cuiaba'               ULPAN         E1ato CGrosso                IT    III
2. Not Funded by Project
Bage'                 URPAT         Rio Grande do Sul            II    III
Ponta Grossa          UEPRAE        Parana                       II    III
San C,rlos            UEPIE         Sao Paulo                    II    III
Sete Lagoas           UEPAjN        Minas Gerais                 II    ITT
'rasilia              UEPAE         Brasilia D.P.                II    IIT
3. Collaborating Institutions
Universidade Feder-
al do Rio Grande
A>-  c28&1          77h-)-+<-   'E17rir   ?7   2.rand,e  A-l^  _>l           TV
Universidade Feder-  Belo Hori-
al de Minas Gjerais zonte         linas GTerais                              TV
'Jniversidade Ferer-
al de Santa I-aria  Santa Maria  Rio Grande do Sul                           IV
Instituto de Pes-
quisas Zootecnicas Porto Alegre Rio Grande do Sul                             V
1-scola S. de A.
"Tuiz de Queiroz t Piracicaba   Sao Paulo                                    IV
Centro de Pesquisas
Zoopatologicas      R_cife        Pernanbuco                                 IV
Instituto de Fes.
Veterinaria 'Desi-
derio Finamor"      Guaiba        Rio S. do Sul                              TV
Instituto Biologico
de S. Paulo         Sao Paulo    Sao Paulo                                   IV
, aculdade de  i ' i -
as Medicas e Bio-
logicas de Botu-
catu                Botucatu      Sao Paulo                                  IV
Instituto Biologico
da Bahia            Salvador      Bahia                                      IV
-  The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Research
II = Adaptive and Adoptive Research
III = Farming Systems Research and Technology transfer
IV = Contract Research
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Beef Cattle
Staffing Level
Senior        Junior         Support       Labor
Station Director                   1
Program Direction
Associate Director for
Research Program                1
Animal Improvement                                                           15
Animal  Breeder                    1             2               3
Animal Nutrition                   1             2               3
Animal Management                  1             1               3
Veterinarian                       1             1               3
Parasitologist                                   1               2
Physiologist (Reproduction)        1             1               2
Crop Production Support                                                      12
Agronomist - Pastures              1             2               3
Range Management Specialist        1             2               3
Weed and Brush Control                           1               2
Seed Production                                  1               2
Technical Services                                                           53 1/
Biometrician                                     1               2
Economist                          1             1               2
Library & Information                            1               2
Technology Diffusion                             1               2
Training Officer                                 1               2
Station Yanager                   _1                             2
TOTAL                  10             20             38            80
1/ Includes 45 for general station operations.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR DAIRY CATTLE
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Dairy Cattle in Agriculture
Role in Development Strategy
1.        Planning the development and, hence, research strategy for dairy-
ing during the next five-year period depends on three essential factors:
(a) the perishable nature of the fresh product, (b) population location
trends, and (c) the rather specialized agro-ecological demands of pasture
production and animal health which bear very strongly on the economics of
milk production.
2.        Combining these influences, one can conclude that (a) production
must be improved in the Northeast to meet the already existing requirements
of the area, ana (bj as popuiacfion incr-ease  .  .n r  he Cntr_-' -T.7-^st  -A V-
regions, greater efforts will have to be made to meet the rapid increase
in the demand for fresh milk products in those areas. It is expected that,
in the case of the large population centers now forming in the Central-West,
particularly the growth taking place in the Federal District, demand will in
the first instance be met by intensive production in Minas Gerais and Goias.
In the case of increased liquid milk demand in the North (Amazonia), however,
and in the extreme West (Mato Grosso), it is expected that demands will be
met, in the first instance, from either dual purpose or low intensity dairy
herds, where beef production plays either a major or equally important role
in farm income. These factors must, of necessity, dictate the pattern of
research relative to selection of breeds, pasture improvement, nutrition
levels and management methods to meet the specific needs of the area. These
will be reflected in the regional programs for milk production research.
Production Performance
3.        Data for 1974 indicate a total of 9.7 million cows being milked,
including dual purpose (beef/milk) animals. Total production was 7.2
million tons kg. 1/. Production is concentrated close to the areas of
high density population, which also have climatic conditions most favorable
to milk production. The Southeast region, with milk production concentrated
in the Minas Gerais triangle, accounts for 54% of all dairy cattle and 57%
of all milk produced. The South is next in importance, with 19% of cattle
and 25% of milk produced. Production in the Central-West comes from 11% of
the cattle and amounts to 6% of the milk volume. The Northeast has 14% of the
1/   Source:  FAO Production Yearbook, 1974.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
cattle, producing 11% of the milk. The North has 2% of the cattle and
produces 1% of the milk. The figures given, although estimates, do point
out the superior position of the South and Southeast, which account for
73% of the cattle and 82% of the milk produced. Average production in the
South is 860 kg/cow/year, as compared to only 430 kg/cow/year in the North.
Potentials and Constraints
4.        Brazil's total milk demand calculated both Lor fresh and procenscd
milk (industrialized use) and, based on a 1973 population of 101.5 m, shows
the consumption for that year was 91.62 kg per capita, or 9.299 m tons. If
a continued 2.9% per annum population increase is assumed for the seven-year
period 1973-1980, demand would rise to 13,038 million tons in 1980, based
on a population of 124.83 m and consumption of 104,45 kg/capita, which also
reflects demand elasticity of 0.7 over the seven-year period. The potential
expansion for the dairy industry over the seven-year period is seen to be
40%, or 5.5% increase per annum, based on the projected increase in domestic
consumption.
5.        The major constraints to efficient milk production up to the present
time have been those normally associated with intensive milk production in the
humid tropics, particularly at low elevations and within latitudes 300 north
and south of the equator.  Mlajor problems are chose coiLceriuilig anImal he_l.i
and nutrition, the latter being particularly related to establishment of
improved pastures under tropical conditions. Much research has already been
done, however, and the major constraints to improved production are largely
those related to the need for improving methods for the transfer of technology,
particularly to the small farmer.
B. Present Status of Dairy Cattle Research
6.        Some thought has been given to developing the water buffalo (bubalino)
as a dual purpose beef/milk animal. Experiments have been carried out on pro-
duction costs of milk produced by buffalo under restricted pasture and stable
conditions similar to those currently in use for intensive dairy cattle herds,
7.        PLA1ANd (Plano de Melhoramento e Alimentacao do Gado Leitero) is a
special agency of the Ministry of Agriculture to promote dairy cattle develop-
ment in the Northeast region. Research has been concentrated on nutrition and
pasture improvement, plus supplementary use of feed concentrate rations. This
work has been done at Nossa Senhora do Socorro by DNPEA and by IPA at Sao
Bento do Una, Arcoverde and Caruaru. However, the research program for dairy
cattle in the Northeast has always been much smaller than that devoted to
beef cattle.



AlNNEX 10
Page 3
8.        In the Central-West region, particularly in the states of Mato
Grosso and Goias, experiments have been carried out on optimum breeding
dates for dual purpose animals and on the relationship of calf weaning to
the length of the lactation period.
9.        In the Southeast region, research on dairy cattle has been
well advanced, particularly in the state of Minas Gerais, with some spe-
cialized work also being done in Rio de Janeiro state on reproductive
physiology. In Minas Gerais, numerous experiments have been done on animal
nutrition, optimum weaning dates and the use of agricultural by-products
as possible feed supplements for dairy cattle. In both states (Minas Gerais
and Rio de Janeiro), considerable work on improved pastures for intensive
dairy production has been carried out. This has included (a) selection
of grass and legume species for improved pastures, (b) establishment of
pasture cultivation techniques, (c) supplements to pasture nutrition, (d)
relationship of pasture species to soil types of the region, and (e) economic
studies based on differing pasture/supplemental nutrition regimes.
10.       In the South, the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Parana have been
the areas of greatest research activity on dairy cattle. Some basic work on
cattle breeding has been done on weaning dates in relation to both dairy herd
selection (of heifers and of young males for transfer to beef cattle herds)
-andA on t1he use o'0 r_Lcc str-aw f^r  f-el-^t-r    _-1nog n- -rec-ently? harvested
rice fields. Economic studies have included relative production indices for
purebred dairy cattle (Holstein-Friesian) in comparison with dual purpose
breeds under similar management practices. The same two states (Rio Grande
do Sul and Parana) have reported numerous experiments on pasture improvement,
levels of fertilization, nutritive value of native pasture species and methods
for pasture establishment. In addition, agricultural by-products have been
studied for their nutritional value of feed substitutes and/or additives to
the normal rations for dairy cattle.
Present Research Station Network
11.       The present system dates from the formation of the National Depart-
ment for Agricultural Research (DNPEA), which was formed in 1971 (see also
Annex 3). Under that system, dairv cattle research was the responsibility
of two technical divisions--the Division for Animal Husbandry Research (DPZ)
and the Division for Animal Pathology (DPZP). The research program, which
was not well coordinated, was carried out at the regional agriculture research
institutes in the main areas of milk production. These were, for dairy service,
mainly IPEACS (Institute for Agricultural Research for the Central-South), with
headquarters at Itaguai (RJ), serving the states of Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara
and Espirito Santo; and in the south, the Institute for Agricultural Research
of the South, with headquarters at Pelotas - Rio Grande do Sul, serving the
states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina; and IPEACO (Institute for
Agricultural Research for the Central-West Region), serving the states of
Minas Gerais, Goias, and Mato Grosso and the Federal District of Brasilia,



ANNEX 10
Page 4
with headquarters at Sete Lagoas. Additional work under UNDP/FAO sponsor-
ship was originally started under agreement with the Pernambuco State
Secretariat for Agriculture and the Institute for Agricultural Research
at Pernambuco (IPA). Later, DNPEA assumed the counterpart role for this
project for livestock development, mainly through pasture improvement and
herd selection designed for the Northeast.
Research Personnel
12.       There is no data available to show numbers of research personnel
devoted exclusively to dairy cattle research, Per se, as opposed to the
number working on cattle (dairy, beef, dual purpose and buffalo).
Achievements
13.       During the decade 1961-1970, national milk production per cow -
based on general herd size - rose only 4.2%. This reflected mainly pasture
improvement and slightly better management practices. This was particularly
true in the Northeast, where the corresponding productivity increase was 26.6%
over the same period. Increased production was particularly marked in the
states of Maranhao (143%), Piaui (61%), Ceara (21%) and Alagoas (36%), and was
the result of a movement towards more intensive milk production, as opposed to
the use of dual purpose animals, since the number of head increased only 19%
during the sa-e pcrlod.  Achia-va.mens d rectly related                       _ n -oarAw results
have been the increased adoption of improved pasture grasses and the use of
animal feed concentrates. Research related to breed selection and herd
improvement have been much less emphasized. Constraints to further improve-
ment in the industry have related mainly to poor coordination of limited
research efforts and lack of on-farm demonstration and extension effort at the
farm level. Government price controls on milk have, in recent years, failed
to keep pace with production costs and thus have had a depressing effect on
production goals. Recently (July 1975), however, price adjustments were
granted as a stimulus to production.
II. THE NATIONAL DAIRY CATTLE
RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. General Description
Agro-ecological Coverage
14.       Research would continue in the highly populated areas of the South
and Southeast, particularly in the states of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de
Janeiro, and Minas Gerais. In the Central-West, new work would be designed



ANNEX 10
Page 5
to overcome problems peculiar to the Campos Cerrados soils in the states
of Mato Grosso and Goias and in the Federal District of Brasilia. In the
North, it is expected that, initially, the preliminary work on adapting the
water buffalo as a dual purpose animal would be concentrated in the state of
Para, with Belem as a base for these operations. In the Northeast, the states
of Piaui, Maranhao, Ceara, Pernambuco and Bahia are important to the milk
production of that area. The agro-ecological details concerning the specific
areas mentioned above are to be found in Annexes 12, 13 and 14e
Program Components
15.       In order to achieve the broad goals outlined above, the program
would have the following components:
(a) civil works at the state research centers (UEPAEs) of Itapetinga
and Quissama;
(b) research farm development at the stations mentioned above;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at stations mentioned
above plus the headquarters station at Agua Limpa;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental establishment costs of the project during a five-year
period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
16.       The objectives of the research would be to increase current averaae
yields, under the varying sets of conditions to be found in the producing areas.
On a general basis, these results must be capable of increasing average
commercial dairy production by some 5.5% on a sustained basis, merely to main-
tain self-sufficiency in the dairy industry.
Yield and Production Goals
17.       These would be consistent with economic levels of production, and
would take into account factors such as milk subsidies and special market
influences related to distance from markets, etc. The capability to produce



ANNEX 10
Page 6
milk of quality for use as fresh (crude) milk, as opposed to processed milk,
also influences the production goals of each farmer. In this area, the
economist must consider market prices, as well as production costs, to deter-
mine the level of inputs desired.
Herd Improvement
18.       Improvement by selection, within existing herds, would be given
priority, as would the improvement of herds by well proven cross-breeding
programs. Of second priority, however, would be improvement of genetic
potential at the purebred level.
Animal Nutrution
19.       Several experiments in this area would be given first priority
such as (a) evaluation of nutrition content of pasture species; (b) esta-
blishment, management and conservation of improved pastures; (c) fertiliza-
tion of native and improved pastures; and (d) supplementary feeding and
mineral supplements.
Animal Husbandry
20.       Hera managemenc, animaL huSDbnufy mf;Lo  cid z
returns, based on farming systems developed for each of the main producing
regions would be tested taking into consideration the best cropping system
and combination of crops,to assure maximum production at the several levels
of production activity,determined by farm size.
Animal Health
21.       Priority would be given to the development of systems to maintain
herd health by sanitation, of preventive means to control both ecto- and
endo-parasites, and to the training of stockmen in day-to-day animal health
care.
Marketing and By-product Development
22.       Although of secondary priority, the work in this area would first
involve marketing studies to ensure that the producer would obtain maximum
returns from the fresh product (milk). These experiments would later be
widened to include the agribusiness aspects of processed milk and its by-
products to determine ways of increasing income at the farm level.
Special Program Objectives
23.       These are likely to relate mainly to the degree of production inten-
sity, both in relation to production per unit area and to production per animal.
The latter is often an important factor in deciding to use purebred milk cows



ANINEX 10
Page 7
for intensive production with a high level of technology and management or
dual purpose animals where beef yield is also important under more exten-
sive, lower cost management practices.
C. Organization and Management
24.       The national dairy cattle research program team would be head-
quartered at Agua Limpa. The station director would have overall respon-
sibility for administration of the headquarters station and would represent
EMBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an
advisory council 1/ and two associate directors--one for administrative
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and
one for the implementation of the research program.
25.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs)
and other cooperating institutions, concerned with research on dairy cattle
and the application of new technology in milk production, would be achieved
chrough contacts OeLween chr  Leam leader anid representatives of the appro-
priate research programs at these stations. An annual workshop would be
held at which current activities would be evaluated and plans for the
research program for the coming year would be made. Inputs from producers
would be obtained at such workshops or field days in the distinct sub-areas
of major production. As a member of the advisory council, the associate
director for research would provide the necessary liaison between the council
and producers (see also Annex 17).
Research Facilities
26.       The National Commodity Research Center for Dairy Cattle would be
at Agua Limpa, near Juiz de Fora, 2/ Minas Gerais. Satellite substation
activity would be located at Itapetinga and Quissama in the Northeast. The
work related to dual purpose animals (beef/milk) would continue at the
National Commodity Center for Beef Cattle, Campo Grande and at the Agricultural
Research Center for the North (Amazonia) at Belem where work on dual purpose
buffalo would continue.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership).
2/   This is one of the two national commodity centers being financed outside
the project area, the other being that for maize/sorghum at Sete Lagoas.



AtINEX 10
Page 8
27.       The Agua Limpa station has 1,900 ha of land available and also
has adequate buildings and laboratory facilities to carry out the core
research program. Under the project, 2,000 ha of land are to be provided
by the Government, at Itapetinga, and building requirements are to be
provided for under the project. At Quissama, 100 ha of land is available,
but additional buildings are necessary to equip this station. These would
be provided as part of project costs. For milk production research, using
dual purpose animals, adequate facilities are currently available at Belem
for research on buffalo. At the National Center for Beef Cattle Research
(Campo Grande), land facilities for work on dual purpose animals are cur-
rently adequate, but the addition of a laboratory complex would be a part
of the project (see also Annex 15).
Research Station Network
28.       In addition to the headquarters station for the program at Agua
Limpa, there are four other stations: two UEPAEs, one Agricultural Research
Center, and one other National Commodity Center (Campo Grande) which would
contribute towards the program within the project area and which would be
funded by the project. In addition, five UEPAEs, mainly in the South and
Southeast, would also be involved in dairy cattle adaptive research and
technology transfer. Finally, two universities and one livestock research
institute would be available to collaborate on university contract research
as may be necessary for specific problem areas. The stations contributing
to this program are listed in Table 4.
University Contract Research
29.       The use of university contract research would depend upon the
specific needs of the research program as a whole and would be on the basis
of a request from ENI3RAPA to the university most capable of carrying out
the specific research program. Projects designated for university con-
tract research would generally be specific in nature, of rather short
duration and concern basic research to provide necessary linkage to ongoing,
long-term research within the national commodity program.
D. Staffing
30.       Staff at the national commodity center (Agua Limpa) would consist,
at full development, of 63 professionals plus 31 administrative support staff.
Also involved in the national dairy cattle research program would be 64 pro-
fessionals and 32 administrative support staff at the two UEPAE stations
mentioned. Only 9% of the staff required is available to the project so that
incremental staffing costs of 91% are needed at year 5 of full project devel-
opment (see Table 5).



ANNEX 10
Page 9
E. Training and Fellowships Program
31.       A training officer would be provided as part of the technical
services team at the national commodity center. His duties would be to
advise the technical staff at the center concerning their training needs
in order to fulfill their roles in the research program and to recommend
further opportunities for in-service or advanced degree academic training
as may be necessary to meet these needs. His recommendations would then
be transmitted to the Department for Human Resources (DRH) at EMBRAPA in
Brasilia, through the program director (see also Annex 17 for details). The
proposed graduate training component assigned to this commodity research
program includes five candidates for Ph.D. training and 34 at the M.Sc.
level, plus 10 positions for participation in short courses relevant to
the research program (see Table 2).
F. Consultants
32.       The project would provide for a total of 3.0 man-years of long-
term consultancy service and 2.5 man-years of short-term consultancy services.
Consultancy services for the do&rv  'qttla re>aonrh poIram would be dictated
by individual program needs and the availability of Brazilian technicians
to adequately fill these needs. Long-term consultancy services would be
utilized mainly to help provide a leadership role and assist in program
development. Short-term services would supply interchange with other insti-
tutes and for project evaluation (see Table 2).
G. Linkages to International Centers
33.       A collaboration program with the International Center for Tropical
Research (CIAT) at Cali, Colombia would be beneficial in the area of general
livestock research, and particularly so in relation to animal nutrition,
pasture improvement and breeding where the accent is on dual purpose (beef/
milk) herds, as opposed to intensive dairy farming (see also Annex 17).



ANNEX 10
Page 10
III. COST ESTIMATES
34.       The cost for the National Research Program for Dairy Cattle for
the five-year period would be approximately US$9.3 million. The estimated
costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Dairy Cattle
Project Cost
(&onstant 1976 Us$ '000)
Center      UEPAEs 1/          Total
uS$           u$               Us$
Development Costs
Civil Works 2/                             -             322              322
Land Purchase                             232             -               232
Laboratory Equipment 2/                     -             88               88
Furniture 2/                                              11               11
Research Farm Development 3/                -            100              100
Farm Equipment 4/                          100            78              178
Vehicles 5/                                215            88              303
Library, Documentation and
riThormau'on Services 6/                 150                             219
Technical Services 7/
Research Specialists                                      -412.5
Fellowships - long term                                                   688.5
Fellowships - short term                                                   70.0
Establishment Cost 8/                                                   6,655.5
TOTAL                                                        9,279.5
1/  Twc UEPAEs are working with dairy cattle.  Since all UEPAEs work with several
commodities, UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are
'calculated using a formula which reflects the number of research teams
working at different UEPAEs with that particular commodity (see Annex 16,
Tabe 15).
2/  Details are given in Annex 15.
3/  Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
i/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
'/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus. Additionally,
30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/  See Table 2.
9'/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Dairy_Cattle
Technical Services
Research Specialists                    Long Term       Short Term         Unit Cost               Total
Man-years      Man-years                 (constant 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Consultants                 -                1.5             75,000                112,500
Livestock Management Specialist             3                1               75,000                300,000
Subtotal                                                                                           412,5QO
Fellowghipsl/                       No. of Participants
Long Term
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 yrs.)                 28                               11,000                308,000
M.Sc. abroad (2 yrs.)                     6                               26,000                156,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                  1                               16,500                 16,500
Ph.D. abroad (4yrs.)                      4                               52,000                208,000
Short Term                               10                                7,000                 70,000
Subtotal                                                                                           758,500
TOTAL                                                                                 1,171,000
1/  Includes fellowships for people working at the UEPAEs.
December 15, 1975



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I FROJECT
R search Program for Dairy Cattle
A. Staff Developmerit Pattern 1/
B. Schedule of Establishment Costj
-- --- Project Year ----     -               Total
1        2        3         1I       5
A. Number of Senior Scientists 'Ph.D., M.Sc.)        20        29       3)4      39       149
urumber of Junior Scientists 'B.Sc.)             31       17                 62        78
B. Salaries                                       l,054    1,581    1,845    2,108    2,635.5             9,223.5
Other Operating ExDenEes                        316      4714      738      843    1,061.0            3,1432.0
Establishment Cost of the Program 2/          1,370    2,o55    2,583    2,951    3,696.5            12,655.5
Current Establishment Cost 3/                 1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200.0             6,000.0
Incremental Establishment Cost                  170      855    1,383    1,751    2,496.5             6,6g555
------------------ (constant in 1976 uS$tooo) ---
1/  Includes scientists working at the UEPAES.
2/  Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses.  Salary computations reflect staff
development pattemn and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for year 3 to 5.  (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/ Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.
0D
Decemnber 15, 1975



AITI IX S.1
ANiE -o
BP11a Z., IL
AGRICULTU1'?L R'`,SEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station INetwork for liational Research
Progrr.. for Dairy Cattle
Desi;'nited
-.a-     3DesiEnntion            State            .rrole within Progrcir
1. 'unded_by Project
Agua I,iz.npa    'riCC         irinas Cerais             T    II    III
Campo Crande   T1CC            Mato Grosso                    II    III
Belem            ARC           Para                      I    II    III
Itapetinga       UEFiAB        B,nhia                         II    III
C1;uis eSpln     UEPAE          Sergipe                       EI    II1
2. Yot Furded by project
'3ap7e"          UEUPLI       R.io Grc,nde do Sul            II    III
Ponta urossa    UERP           Paran:A                        II    III
San Carlos       UE PAF        Sao Paulo                      II    III
S3ete Lagoas     UEPAF?.,      Minr,s G-eraiz                 II    III
3ra.sili.        UEPAF         Brasila D.F.                   II    III
3.  Collaborating Institutions
Uni'(versidade    Belo Mo-    Mlinas Gerais                                 I7
de 15inas      rozonte
Gerais
Urniversidade    Vi cosa       ISinas Gerais                                 IV
Federal de
Vicosa
Instituto de    Nova.          Sao Paulo                                     IV
_ootecnia      Odessa
-/  The follo',lin7 cocie applies to desicrn^<ted research actiar1tv:
I = Core Research
II = Adaptive and 'dontive -'esearch
III = 7aring Systens Research and Techrology transfer
.7T = Contract Research
Deeember 1, 1975



ANNEX 1C
Tab'e e
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Commodity Center for Dairy Cattle
Staffing Level
Se-nior     Junior      Support      Labor
Station Director                          1           -            -            _
Program Direction
Associate Director for
Research Program                          1           -
Cattle Improvement                                                             15
Animal Breeder                            1           2            3
Animal Nutrition                          1           2            3
Animal Management                         1           2            3
Veterinarian                              1           2            3
Parasitologist                            -            1           2
Physiologist (Reproduction)               1           1            2
Crop Production Support                                                        iC
Agronomist - Pastures                     -            1           3
Agronomist - Feed Crops                   -            1           3
Weed and Brush Control                    -            1           2
Technical Services                                                             50 1/
Biometrician                              -           1            2
Economist                                 1           1            2
Library and Information                   -            1           2
Technology Diffusion                      -           1            2
Training Officer                          -            1           2
Station Manager                           -           1            2
TOTAL                            o           15           36          75
Acdninistrative Services
Associate Director for
Acdninistrative Services                 1            -           -            -
Finance Officer                           -            1                        -
Personnel Officer                         -            1           3            _
Purchasing Officer                        -            1           4            -
Security Officer                          -            1           -            4
Repair and Maintenance                    -            1           2           10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                      1C,
Secretaries (A-rministrative)                                      2
TOTAL                             I           5           25           14
1/ Includes 42 for genera: station operations.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR SHEEP AND GOATS IN SEMI-ARID TROPICAL REGION 1/
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Importance of Sheep and Goats
Production Performance
1.        Goats.  The world population of goats amounted to 391 million head
in 1973. Brazil reportedly has approximately 16 million head, which makes it
sixth in the world, ranking behind India, China, Nigeria, Turkey and Pakistan.2/
Goats tend to be concentrated, at least relative to other species, in drier
areas with sparse water and grazing resources, often corresponding with areas
of greatest human poverty..
2.        In Brazil, goats are scattered throughout the country, but most are
found in the Northeast (78% of the national total). The major concentrations
are in the states of Bahia, Piaui, Ceara, Pernambuco and Paraiba, in that order.
1lSo .~ait d  pLvpilL'y .^<; e-<pf>.{tx=<  uy  ,.e  .a;.Lht-, 6cLd, dLiu -wz.iimes only
goats, do well in areas of sparce precipitation where woody plant species
provide a major part of the feed supply. Whatever the reason, it is important
to realize that the food proteins they supply are of great significance to
Lhe people of these areas. To a large degree, they may be irreplaceable un-
less water and plant resources can be developed for more intensive producLion
of crops or other livestock. Goats also make an important contribution to
the Brazilian economy, largely through the production of hides or skins. In
1972, the value of goat skins exported was on the order of six million dollars
with the majority coming from the Northeast. In recent years, Government
policies have encouraged local processing in order to increase the value of
the export product.
3.        Sheep.  Brazil has a population of approximately 25.5 million sheep,
the largest concentration of whclh is found in the state of Rio Grande do Sul,
with approximately 53.4% of the total. The sheep of Rio Grande do Sul are
primarily wool type animals, but they also produce meat. In the past, most
research with sheep in Brazil has been directed toward this population. Also,
1/   Currently EMBRAPA does not have a sheep/goat program of research in the
northeast. It is intended that the proposed project will concentrate on
goat production for meat, with some attention being given to hair-type
sheep, also for meat production. The national center for wool-bearing
sheep will, as heretofore, a headquartered at Bage, Rio Grande do Sul.
2/   Source:  FAO Production Yearbook, 1973.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
research from other countries can be more readily adapted to serve the type
of production in this more temperate region. Research on behalf of the sheep
industry of Rio Grande do Sul should continue, but the proposed project is
intended to serve the other center of production which is located in the
Northeast, mainly in the states of Bahia, Piaui, Pernambuco, Ceara and
Paraiba. The sheep of this area are the hair type or non-wool producing
sheep, and in many respects, they resemble and serve a similar purpose as
the goats of the area. However, there are some important differences.
First, they have different grazing habits from goats and their forage con-
sumption can, in some cases, complement rather than compete with that of
the goat. Second, sheep are potentially more efficient meat producers be-
cause they expend less energy in movement than goats, and, also, sheep can
be crossed with exotic or introduced breeds to markedly increase growth
rates and carcass yields.
Potentials and Constraints to Goat and Sheep Production
4.        Goats are truly multi-purpose animals--they produce meat, milk,
sometimes fiber hair, and leather. The importance of these contributions
is not fully documented in available statistics since these products are
often used for home consumption. Goat consumption of brush or browse species
may be a detriment under severe conditions of overgrazing, but the animals'
eating habits can generally be looked upon as an advantage, since they assist
in controlling often invading species as well as producing valuable products
from them.  Even in  zrea3                   IDhe-e ca. 'ia _a. -c U.,  t -ay zC:irIz tc{
also include goats to more completely utilize the vegetation available and
assist in the control of invading browse species. Use of a pasture by mixed
species often produces more offtake with less damage to the vegetation than
when a single species is involved. The potential of using goats for milk
production to provide badly needed protein and calcium in the human diet has
not been effectively exploited, particularly in the Northeast. Species com-
parisons as to grazing patterns and productive efficiency would be areas of
research, working with all three of the animals mentioned--cattle, sheep
and goats--at those centers where feed conditions and land area permitted.
5.        There is a worldwide shortage of animal protein and there would be
potential for Brazilian penetration of export markets, particularly in the
Western Hemisphere. However, forecasts for 1980 produced by the Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) anticipate a meat deficit in the Northeast of some
10,900 tons. The potential exists for some increase in production of these
products from the Northeast, and research is needed to appraise this po-
tential, as well as to facilitate its accomplishment.
6.        Good statistical data are seldom available on net slaughter as a
function of the animal population maintained. BNB has estimated annual
slaughter rates of 15 to 17% for goats and 13 to 17% for sheep. This is
probably expressed as a function of the total population, and it is not clear
if this includes home or local slaughter. Hide sales should provide an
estimate of slaughter, but must, in all cases, represent something less than
total slaughter. The major factors affecting offtake are reproductive rate,



ANNEX 11
Page 3
total slaughter. The major factors affecting offtake are reproductive rate,
age at slaughter, death, and length of productive life. Assuming a net re-
productive rate of 100% for adult breeding females, that all animals are
carried to at least one year of age before slaughter, and that all female
offspring are kept for replacement or herd increase, the annual offtake rate
expressed as a percent of the total population maintained would be 25%, plus
any sales of cull females. If one assumes a 50% survival to time of culling,
the result would be a projected slaughter rate of 37.5%, assuming no provision
for flock increases. This indicates, based on the assumptions made, a pro-
jected offtake rate approximately double that reporteu at present.  The cal-
culations give some indication of the potential for increased production,
but, realistically, the economic feasibility of achieving even more modest
goals must be thoroughly tested through research, as little or no comparative
data are available.
Demand Outlook for Industry
7.        Realistically, in the Northeast region (except where the potential
exists for irrigation), the sheep and goat industries are not ones in which
the most dramatic changes may be expected. However, the potential for some
increase in production is good. The 1980 estimates 1/ reflect a demand for
goat meat and mutton of 60.9 thousand tons, and a deficit of possibly 4.9
thousand tons. These figures are based on 1970 consumption of 56,000 tons
(goat meat and mutton comhinRd) on a nonulation of 93.3 million. showing a
per capita consumption of only 0.6 kg per capita per year. The demand for
sheep and goat skins is also expected to remain strong and, at current meat
prices, the skins frequently represent 30% of the value of the animal.
Based on the above projections, a production increase of 9% during the
period 1970-80 could readily be absorbed.
B. Current Status of Research
8.        Very little production or management research work has been done
with sheep and goats in the Northeast region. That which has been done in
the south of Brazil or other countries has little application to the Northeast.
Several states in the Northeast, especially Bahia, Pernambuco and Piaui, have
initiated development and improvement programs with goats. The enthusiasm for
work with these species is high in these areas at the present time and the
programs which have been undertaken are well designed and consistent with
presently available technology. However, the limitation in these programs
is generally a lack of technology adequate to permit a major advance, and
some of the programs now being emphasized have not been thoroughly tested.
Thus, research to provide this new technology is a weak link at the present
time.
9.        Observations on goats have been or are presently being made at a
number of locations in the Norteast, and a few locations also have sheep.
1/   Source:  Studies by Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), 1973.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
However, research data are not being recorded and direct comparisons are not
being made. Some of the locations where such flocks are presently found
include Sertania (goats only), Quixada (sheep only), Campo Major (sheep and
goats), and Valencia (goats only). In the case of goats, the primary interest
in breeding programs is with the Bhuj and Anglo Nubian. However, these geno-
types have apparently not received thorough testing before release to the
public. In the case of sheep, the stations presently possessing breeding
flocks are working with the native or "Deslanado" genotype. The animals being
maintained appear to be distinctly improved over those in public hands, but
these are apparently not being released at present. A unit at Serra Talhada
is, however, making observations on management systems, parasite control,
mineral supplementation and their interaction with genotypes through the in-
troduction of Anglo Nubian breeding.
10.       Disease control seems to have received more attention than animal
breeding and management. At least a number of disease and parasite problems
have been identifed, and vaccination programs, where applicable, are underway.
Universities and institutes such as the Bahia Biological Institute, the
Center for Zoopathological Research (CPZ), and the Federal University of
Ceara (UFCE) appear to have made major contributions. Major disease problems
include foot and mouth disease, rabies, botulism, anthrax, blackleg, carbunculo,
gaseous lymphadenitis, mastitis, parasitism and contagious ecthyma.
11.       Recently, there has been renewed interest in research into practical
aspects of sheep and goat raising, and some experiments are being developed
in this field. These experiments are concerned mainly with determining the
economic impact of the introduction of improved practices on sheep and goat
raising, either separately or in combination. It is felt that more detailed
research should be undertaken only after this basic question has been studied.
Experiments are being initiated in Serra Talhada (Pernambuco) by IPA/EMBRAPA/FAO;
in Quixada (Ceara) jointly by the Agronomic Research Institute Foundation
(FIPA), the Ministry of Agriculture (DEMA), the Superintendency for the
Development of Ceara (SUDEC), and the National Department of Drought Control
Works (DNOCS); and in Juazeiro (Bahia) jointly by the Center for Agricultural
Trials and Improvements SA (CEMSA) and the Bank of Northeast Brazil (BNB).
All these trials have the same objectives and even use similar treatments,
which further indicates the lack of coordination and integration of experi-
mental programs in the Northeast, and the resulting duplication of effort.
12.       Currently, the major constraints to achieving an effective research
program would appear to be (a) the lack of a well coordinated research pro-
gram with clearly defined goals, and (b) the lack of research personnel with
specialized training in this field who would be available for full-time partic-
ipation in research.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
II. THE NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR SHEEP AND GOATS
A. General Description
13.       In formulating the national research program, it is essential to
point out that research on wool sheep (in the South and the Southeast) would
be based on research requirements for wool sheep in that area. The research
program of the Northeast would concentrate on the distinctive requirements
of hair-type sheep and goats adapted to the semi-arid "sertao" and "agreste"
regions of the agro-ecological area of the Northeast.
Agro-ecological Coverage
14.       The major concentration of the sheep and goats research effort in
the Northeast would be in the semi-arid interior or sertao. This region is
characterized by low annual rainfall with long dry periods, poor soils, and
a generally dense ground cover of woody or browse species called "Caatinga".
There is considerable variability in topography, soil type and vegetative
coverage and various micro-climates exist within the larger region involved.
Limited numbers of sheep and goats are also found throughout the "agreste" area
but the potential for greater sheep and goat production would be explored.
Essentially, no sheep and goats are found in the coastal mata and no research
anol-vement with shnc-  -Ar  gcztn      e;  nrinodc,o The rnnly likely
contribution of these species in the coastal mata would be the possibility
that a small number of goats might be kept for the home milk supply (see also
Annex 13).
15.       There would be three principal locations for sheep/goat research
in the Northeast. The headquarters of the national research program for
sheep and goats would be at Sobral, Ceara where there are opportunities for
research in arid as well as in semi-arid areas. Satellite activities would
be carried out at Teresina, Piaui to permit research in the tropics having
a distinct dry season and also at Petrolina/Juaziero, site of the Agricul-
tural Research Center for the Northeast. The location of these stations is
designed to provide the wide range of conditions necessary for the research
program.
Program Goals
16.       The broad aims of the program would be to provide the technology
necessary to increase the production of goat meat and mutton by approximately
5% per year. The areas where most effective advances can be made in the short
term are in (a) identification and correction of nutritional deficiencies, (b)
selection and breeding of superior genotypes already existing in the country,
and (c) improvement of animal health through disease and parasite control,
using preventive measures. Long-term research programs would include (a)
introduction of superior genotypes into the population, (b) identification
and utilization of existing pasture and forage species, and (c) the develop-
ment of farming systems to utilize combinations of pasture for cattle, sheep
and goat herds for maximum utilization of forage available.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Program Components
17.       In order to carry out the research program at the localities men-
tioned, the following components would be provided under the project:
(a) civil works for the necessary laboratory and office buildings
at Sobral, Teresina and Petrolina/Juaziero;
(b) research farm development at the above stations;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at all stations
mentioned above;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowship
programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) incremental establishment cost of the project during a
five-year period.
Details of the investment to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
18.       The program would include experiments designed to increase growth
rate and reproductive efficiency of the herd through selection of superior
animals in the herd and introduction of exotic strains where this proves
feasible.
Range Management Methods
19.       Studies would be undertaken on improved range management methods,
including rotation grazing, brush and weed control, protection of desirable
native species, and introduction of improved or new forage species; on water
development and control of herds either through fencing or sheep herding;
and on appropriate stocking for maximizing utilization of available resources.
Animal Nutrition
20.       Controlled experiments, under laboratory conditions, would include
analysis to determine feed value of forages, both native and introduced
species; animal growth rates under various levels of nutrition; and the effect
of supplemental feeding during critical periods in the animal reproduction
cycle. Work on animal nutrition would include all types of livestock in the
grazing cycle, including beef cattle, and would identify the causes of nutri-
tional deficiencies in the particular animals in the farming system to be
adopted in the specific agro-ecological area.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
Farming Systems and Herd Management Economics
21.       The economic margin on sheep and goat production is currently
thought to be very low but studies would be required, in the first instance,
to establish more clearly the economics of the industry for the wide range
of land holdings and tenure systems involved. Once these have been estab-
lished, the economist would work closely with the farming systems and range
management specialists to determine the farming and herd management system
necessary to maximize returns at various levels of inputs and under varying
market conditions.
Research Facilities
22.       Two thousand acres of land would be made available at Sobral for
the program. In addition, 30 ha of experimental fields would be available
at Teresina and a selected area of 25 ha at the Petrolina/Juazeiro (ARC)
station. In addition, it is proposed to acquire land at Uaua, to be used
for a substation to be operated from the ARC location. In order to carry
out animal breeding, grazing management and farming systems research it
would be necessary to provide at least 1,200 head of sheep, a similar number
of goats, and at least 100 beef cattle for integrated systems of livestock
production where the forage species available are suited to this type of
grazing management.
23.       Adequate laboratories, particularly for soil and forage analysis,
would be available at the Petrolina/Juazeiro station. Facilities for selec-
tion and breeding would be situated at Sobral. Laboratories for disease and
pest control would also be placed at that station. All three stations,
Sobral, Petrolina/Juaziero, and Teresina, would develop range management
and farming system techniques for the conditions of their particular area.
Suitable field laboratory facilities would be provided.
C. Organization and Management
24.       The national sheep and goat research program team would be head-
quarterCd at Sobral, Ccara. The station director would have overall re-
sponsibility for administration of the headquarters station and would repre-
sent EMBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted
by an advisory council 1/ and two associate directors, one for administra-
tive services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer,
and one for the implementation of the research program.
25.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
example of membership).



ANNEX 11
Page 8
would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation. Coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs)
and other cooperating institutions concerned with research on sheep and
goats and the application of new technology in sheep and goat husbandry
would be achieved through contacts between the team leader and representa-
tives of the appropriate research programs at these stations. An annual
workshop would be held at which current activities would be evaluated and
plans for the research program for the coming years would be made. Inputs
from producers would be obtained at such workshops or field days in the
distinct sub-areas of major production. As a member of the advisory council,
the associate director for research would provide the necessary liaison
between the council and producers (see also Annex 17).
Research Station Network
26.       This program is somewhat similar to that for rubber in that it is
being developed from few formal beginnings and it is expected to take a few
years before a viable research station network is developed. However, it is
expected that three stations in the Northeast would initiate the program
and that they would eventually build up significant collaborative programs
with several institutes in the South, particularly in relation to sheep
breeding. The present limited status of the research network may be noted
in Table 4.
University Contract Research
27.       When research problems of a specific nature occur, especially those
which may require long-range basic research, it may be desirable to contract
such problem-solving research to select universities or institutes in the
region which have a demonstrated interest and competence in the area involved.
Another instance in which contract research might be indicated is when special
facilities or equipment are required that are not provided for at one of the
centers working with these species. Such a project might, for instance, in-
clude experimental vaccine production, meats technology or work with animals
which must be kept under quarantine.
D. Staffing
28.       Currently, less than 10% of the required staff is available for the
research program. At full development, the National Commodity Research Center
would have 68 professional staff and 31 supporting staff. In addition, at the
UEPAE mentioned (Teresina) and at the Agricultural Research Center for the
Northeast, there would be a total of 32 professional staff and 16 support staff
designated for sheep/goat research. An active staff selection and training
program would be necessary to build up staff to full development during the
five-year period, and a training officer has been provided for this program
(see also Table 5 for details).



ANiNEX 11
Page 9
E. Training and Fellowships Program
29.       The project would provide fellowships in order to upgrade junior
staff and to provide specialists in the disciplines and areas of study re-
quired to carry out the research program. Fellowships would include 34
candidates for the M.Sc. degree, and six for the Ph.D. degree. In addition,
funds would be made available for the participation of 10 staff members in
short courses during the five-year period of project execution. The training
officer would be responsible to the program leader/coordinator for making
recommendations for these staf development courses (see Table 2).
F. Consultants
30.       In order to help provide the necessary leadership for research proj--
ect execution and planning during the early stages of development, the project
would provide for 5.0 man-years of long-term consultancy and 4.5 man-years of
short-term consultants. These would be selected, as required, in the specific
areas of livestock management, animal breeding and veterinary science (see
Table 2).
G. Linkages to International Centers
31.       In the past, most of the arid zone research involving sheep and
goats has been done in Australia, the United States and the Union of South
Africa. A number of U.S. land grant colleges are involved in rangeland
management, but only the state of Texas has any significant goat population
and has integrated these species into range management programs. Texas A&M
University has done considerable work in this field. Work in Australia is
more recent, and that on rangeland for sheep has been well advanced by the
Commonwealth.
32.       The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization
(GSIRO) in Australia and the International Center Research Institute for the
Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT) at Hyderabad, India have not worked specifically
with goats, but the techniques developed there for the management of range
pasture in areas similar to the Northeast and for plant/water relationships
in general would seem to indicate that linkages to a few of the above-
mentioned universities and institutions would provide a valuable interchange
of research methods and concepts.



ANNEX 11
Page 10
III. COST ESTIMATES
33.       The cost for the National Research Program for Sheep/Goats for the
five-year period would be approximately US$13.6 million. The estimated costs
are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Sheep/Goats
Project Cost
(constant 1976--$ U 000)
Center       UEPAEs 1/          Total
Development Costs
Civil Works 2/                           1,029            160             1,189
Land Purchase                               _              _                _
Laboratory Eauipment 2/                    244             42               286
Furniture 2/                                43              5                48
Research Farm Development 3/               -               -                -
Farm Equipment 4/                          100             39               139
Vehicles 5/                                215             4                259
Library, Documentation and
InfornH-iun Servic-es 6,                  15u             34               184
Technical Services 7/
Research Specialists                       -                                712.5
Fellowships - long term                                                     776
Fellowships - short term                                                     70
Establishment Cost 8/                                                     9,845.5
TOTAL                                                          13,509.0
1/  nne TTEPAE is work4ng with sheep/goats.  Since all UEPAEs work with several
comnodities, UEPAE costs attributed to the respective research programs are
caiculated using a formula which reflects the number of research teams
working at different UEPAEs with that particular cammodity (see Annex 16,
Table 5).
2/ Details are given in Annex 15.
3/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
!:/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
g/  Per station:  two farm trucks and one large and one smal] bus.  Additionally,
30 automobiles pe- research center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
6/  Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
7/ See Table 2.
&/  See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



Bi3L.ZT
AGPLIGULrJRA L'F}RCiT-  CPTOJECT
National Research Program for SheeGoats
Tec_LnicaI Ser.ric-s
Wesearch Siecialists                    Long Tern,,     Shorc Term         Unit Cost                Total
-fan-years      MIar-:{ars _             (conrstant 1976 US$)
?rcgfrsm Advisor/Consultaxts                _              1.5               75,000                112.500
Livestock Management Specialist             3              1                 75,000                300 000
Animal Breeder                              1              1                 75,000                150,000
Veterinarian                                1              1                 75,000                150,000
712,500
PJP-:, .s       1/                  No. of PartizThants
ai j      -(2 yrs.)           28                               11,000                308,000
c. aJyread ( 2 yrs.)                     6                               26,000                156,000
95.; !,~ 2   Brazil (3 yrs.)                                              16,500
?}B.k  ab,-&>'c,  (h yrs.)                6                 .52,000                             312,000
S^<K}i*: L71r .10                                                          7,000                 70,000
so lt ) v 'v .v rs ) 846,000
__-_r                                                                                1,,558500
1/' lncIuc s fe'0lr ships for people working at the UEPAEs.
December 15, 1975



A-LF,ICSLTURAL RESE-aCH I 1ROJECT
Research Program i or Sheep/Goats
A.  Staff De\velo-rmeent Pattern  1/'
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost  2/
------------- Project Year  ------otal
1        2         3
A. 'lumber of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)          16        25       29        33       41
uiumber of Junior Scientists (E.S .)               24        35        41       47        59
.  Salaries                                          841    1,262    1,472    1,683    2,103.5             7,361.5
Other Operating ExoenEes                          252       379       589      673       841,n          2,734.0
Establishment Ccst of the Program 2/'           1,093    1,641    2,o61    2,356    2,944.5            10,095.5
Cu<rent Est,2blishment Cost 3/                      50       50        50       50        50.,            250.0
7ncremental Establishment ,ost                  1,043    1,591    2,011    2,306    2,894.5             9,845.5
------------------ (constant in 1976 us$tooo)
1/ Includes scientists working at the UEPAEs.
2/  Establis'hnent cost comprises salaries and other onerating expenses.  Salary comnutations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other operating expenses are
estUmated to be 30," of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for year3 3 to 5.  (see
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
3/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global ENDRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.    |
CD1
December 15, lc97c5



TT 
7)~'wIC-ITU' ~- >CF I  CJ LCT
aesearch Station F.'etw0ork for PNational ?esearcch
Program for Sheep '-nd Goats
Tame                                                     Designated
iDesignatiorn         State            o   within * ro,raorL-.
1. Funded by Project
Sobral                    FCC           Ceara                 I     II    III
Petrolina/Juazeiro        ARC           Pernaiibucof3zhin     I    IT    III
Teresina                  UEPL-E        Piaui                       II    ITI
2.  lFot lunded byz  rcP -t
Bacge- U" TEPE                          -,io 'rande do Dal  I       II    lIrT
3.  Collaborating Instriiti-rs
(Currently, no such institutional program links have been made.)
/  The following code apmlfeR tbJ designated research activity:
I = Core Rtesearch
!I = Adat4ive and  doptiv'   `esesarch
III =anrming Systems 17esearch and Technology tranrsfer
IV = Jontract ?esearch
_   F-or -..ool sheep, on-y.
December 15, 1975



ANlIEX 1 
Table f
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the National Comnodity Center for Sheep and Goats
Staffing Level
Senior     Junior       Support          Labor
Station Director                          1            -             -            -
Program Direction
Associate Director for
Research Program                          1            -             _
Animal Improvement                                                                15
Animal Breeder                             1           2             3
Animal Management                          1           2             3
Animal Nutrition                           1           2             3
Veterinarian                               1           2             3
Parasitologist                             -           1             2
Physiologist (Reproduction)                1           1             2
Crop Production Support                                                           12
Agronomist - Pastures                      -           1             3
Range Management Specialist                1           2             3
Weed and Brush Control                     -            1            2
Seed Production                            -           1             2
Technical Services                                                                53 1/
Biometiician                               -           1             2
Economist                                  1           1             2
Library and Information                    -           1             2
Technology Diffusion                       -           1             2
Training Officer                           -           1             2
Station Manager                                        1             2
TOTAL                           9           21            38           80
Administrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Services                   1            -            -             -
Finance Officer                            -            1            4             -
Personnel Officer                          -           1             3             -
Purchasing Officer                         -            1            4             -
Security Officer                           -            1            -             4
Repair and Maintenance                     -           1             2            10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                        10
Secretaries (Acdiinistrative)             _            _             2
TOTAI.                          1            5            25            1
1/  Includes 45 for general station operrtions.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAMS FOR FARMING SYSTEMS IN THE SEMI-ARID TROPICS
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Agricultural Importance of the Region
1.        The project area, Northeast Brazil, covers 1.5 million km  and rep-
resents 18.2% of the national territory; it is comprised of nine states, and
one federal territory, and in 1970 had a population of 28.7 million inhabi-
tants, or 30.3% of the total population of Brazil. Agriculturally, the area
is very diverse, but can conveniently be divided into six major subregions
which influence agricultural activity in the area. In 1970, agriculture
accounted for 33.4% of the regional NDP and amounted to US$1,341 million at
factor costs. These amounts compare with a national NDP of US$35,981 million,
of which 14.6% (US$5,443 million) was derived from agriculture. 1/
Physical Aspects
2.        The six subregions are defined as follows:
(a)  The Middle-North comprising the2state of Maranhao and northern
Piaui. This area of 382,000 km represents 25% of the Northeast.
Well traversed with several large rivers, it is considered the
transition zone between the Amazon basin and the Northeast.
Average temperature of the region is 26 C and annual rainfall
is in excess of 1,800 mm in the west, lessening gradually to
1,400-1,600 mm in the east. The rainfall distribution gives
rise to three types of vegetation: tropical rainforest,
"tagreste" (transitional), and "caatinga" (brush). Soils of
this subregion vary between latosols, podzols, mono-calcic
brunizems, grumosols and alluvials. Soil classification by
the Natural Resource Survey (RADAM), a project of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy, produced the following estimated distribu-
tion of land for agricultural use: suitable, 16%; restricted
use, 31%; and unsuitable, 53%.
1/   Source:  "Sistemas de Contas Nacionais:  Novas Estimativas",
Getulio Vargas Foundation, September 1974.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(b) The Littoral or "Zona da Mata" represented by the narrow coastal
strip extending from the state of Rio Grande do Norte tX the
south of the state of Bahia. The area is of 126,968 km and rep-
resents 8.2% of the total area.  Temperatures average 25 to 26 C,
and rainfall is in the range of 1,500 to 2,000 mm per annum, with
a pronounced four-month dry season. The area was once densely
forested, hence its name, but it has been extensively cultivated
and only forest fragments remain. Soils of the region are vari-
able, but may be classified into four main types: thin alluvials
of the coastal plain; deep humid and fertile soils, high in
organic matter, which lie inward from the coast; flatland soils,
which are tertiary formations from the crystalline bedrock of
the center Northeast (these soils are usually heavily layered
mixtures of sand and clays and are very deep); and, finally, the
older formations in areas characterized by hilly relief with steep
slopes and soils that are predominantly latosols and podzols.
(c)  Small fertile valleys that occur further inland in the hills.
Although widely scattered, the area covers 34,600 km , or 2.2%
of the total land area. The zone is somewhat transitional be-
tween agreste and semi-arid lands, but climate is suitable for
both annual and perennial crops. The rainfall is well distri-
buted, and the soils are those of group (b) but higher in
organic material and with adequate moisture.
(d)  The plains, encompassing western Bahia state and part of
southern Piaui, an area of 94,508 km , which represents 6.1% of
the Northeast region. These plains, at 400 to 600 meters eleva-
tion, are sparsely populated, and rainfall is frequently insuffi-
cient to produce a crop.  Annual average temperature is 25 0C and
there is a marked four-month dry season. The soils, predominantly
acid latosol and podzols, are of low fertility and are highly
permeable so that the rainfall drains quickly in the undulating
topography of the region.
(e)  The agreste or major zone of transition between the "mata" and semi-
arid "sertao", one of the major subregions o agricultural produc-
tion in the Northeast. It covers 169,698 km representing 11%
of the area. Seven of the states in the region have some portion
of agreste, but Bahia, Pernambuco and Piaui contain 96% of this
agro-ecological area. The rainfall pattern is similar to that
of the lush coastal mata but with precipitation of only 600 to
1,000 mm.  Average temperatures of 21 C are lower than the coast.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Topography is rolling, with elevations seldom above 600 m until
the foothills in Rio Grande do Norte and Pernambuco are reached.
Here, again, soils are predominantly latosols and podzols, with
some monocalcium brunizems in the drier areas. The area is
the most important subregion as a producer of basic food crops
for the large urban centers of the Northeast.
(f) The semi-arid region, by far the largest of the six subregions,
covering 741,000 kmL, or 48% of the land area. Although agri-
culturally poor, it supports an almost equal portion of the
regional population (46%) and is important in the agricultural
economy. It is here that periodic droughts have created, over
the years, severe socio-economic problems. Rainfall is erratic
but can range between 500 to 750 mm per annum. Of more importance
from the agricultural viewpoint is rainfall distribution. Nor-
mally, rainfall occurs in a single three to five months period,
followed by seven to nine months of grolonged drought.  Temperatures
are high, averaging between 23 to 27 C, relative humidity is low
(50%), and annual evaporation exceeds 2,000 mm. The region thus
fits the criteria for semi-arid agriculture. In general, the soils
are thin and of low fertility. By no means homogenous, a few soil
types, such as the alluvials, vertisols and latosols have agri-
cultural potential.  Soil permeability, rather than soil fprtility,
is of much more importance in the crystalline soils of the drought
polygon. Agriculture in this region is confined to the fertile
alluvial plains ("varzeas"), along stream courses. In addition, an
estimated 50,000 ha are now irrigated along the Sao Francisco river
basin.
Population Density
3.        The northeastern states having the larger populations are Bahia,
Pernambuco, Ceara and Maranhao, but tVe greatest population densyties occur
in the states of Alagoas (57.9 cap/km )2 Pernambuco (53.4 cap/km ), Piaui
(43.4 cap/km), and Sergipe (41.1 cap/km ).
The following table provides population data on the nine states
of the Northeast Region in 1972:



ANNEX 12
Page 4
State or Territory    Area    Area         Population              Population
(Km )   (M)         ('000)            (Density Cap per km )
Maranhao             328,663    21.2           3,037                   9.2
Piaui                250,934    16.3           1,735                   6.9
Ceara                150,630      9.7          4,492                  29.8
Rio Grande do Norte  53,015       3.4          1,612                  30.4
Paraiba               56,372      3.6          2,445                  43.4
Pernambuco            98,307      6.4          5,254                  53.4
Alagoas               27,731      1.8          1,606                  57.9
Sergipe               21,994      1.4            911                  41.4
Bahia                561,026    36.2           7,583                  13.5
Total: Northeast  1,548,672   100.0           28,675                  18.6
Source:   Statistical Yearbook of Brazil, 1973.
Agricultural Production
4.        The principal agricultural field crops of the Northeast in 1973 were,
in order of economic importance, cotton, sugarcane, cassava, cacao, beans,
bananas, maize, rice, coconuts and castor beans. It will be noted that,
of these 10 crops, eight are food crops, one a fibre crop, and the other indus-
trial. Of the eight food crops, six are considered basic to the diet of the
Northeast. Of the crops mentioned, research on five would be supported under
the commodity research projects proposed for the Northeast. In addition to
mixed crop livestock farms, enterprises in the area include beef cattle,
dairy cattle, sheep, goats and swine. All but the latter would be supported
under the commodity research programs of the project.
B. Current Status of Research
5.        Under the Department for National Agriculture Research (DNPEA), the
research network was operated by the Instituto de Pesquisas Agropecuarias do
Nordeste (IPEANE). There were 10 experiment stations allocated on a state
basis, but research on individual commodities was not coordinated within an
experiment station network. Research programs were designed on a disciplinary,
rather than a commodity, basis and it was difficult for the farmer to utilize
research results at the farm level.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Achievements and Constraints
6.        Achievements, as measured by significant increases in agriculture
that can be directly related to research inputs, are almost exclusively lim-
ited to the favorable results obtained by two of the major monocultures in
southern Bahia state, namely sugarcane and cacao. The main reasons for this
are: (a) the particularly favorable conditions to be found in the Zona de
Mata area for these crops, the strong supportive services, such as credit,
markets and technical services available to a rather homogenous group of
large-scale farmers; and (c) the existence of experiment stations devoted ex-
clusively to these crops, operated by the Commission for Recuperation of
Cacao Culture in Rural Areas (CEPLAC) for cacao and the Institute for Alcohol
and Sugarcane Research (IIAA) for sugarcane. The latter, incidentally, pro-
vides further proof that the commodity-oriented approach to agricultural re-
search is effective in the Brazilian context.
7.        The constraints experienced in agricultural production in the area
are many, but a few of the more important ones may be listed here: (a) limita-
tions due to climate, soil fertility and topography; (b) population density
in areas of limited agricultural potential where both food and employment
opportunities cannot be supplied for the rural population; (c) the limited
expansion opportunities due to uncertainties in world demand and supply for
one of the major agricultural crops of the region, i.e., cotton; (d) the low
level of inputs, other than labor, i.e., mechanization, fertilizers, credit
and technology; and (e) generally insufficient agricultural extension and
credit services.
Potentials for Future Development of the Area
8.        The Northeast has figured prominently in special development pro-
grams, but fragmentation of efforts, weak institutional support and poorly
defined objectives have resulted in few successes (see "Rural Development
Designs and Options in Northeast Brazil", Report No. 665A-BR of June 23,
1975). Several promising programs, however, to which the Government hopes
to devote substantial resources to effectively integrate development efforts
in this area are: (a) the Development Program for Integrated Areas of the
Northeast (POLONORDESTE); (b) Development of Irrigation Programs (DNOCs);
(c) Livestock Development Program (CONDEPE); and (d) Agricultural Development
Programs.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
II. The Agricultural Research Program for the
Semi-arid Tropics (Northeast)
A. General Description
9.        The broad objectives of the program would be to improve the economy
of the area by strengthening the agricultural research potential and, by means
of the new technology developed, increase the area's agricultural output in
keeping with the needs of the population. The program would have three main
thrusts: (a) the development of farming systems technology to provide maximum
production from the limited natural resources available; (b) the modification
of certain resources, particularly water, by means of storage, flow control
and controlled irrigation in areas adaptable to such procedures; and (c) the
selection of either native or exotic plant and animal species of agricultural
value which can best utilize the limited resources of the region.
Program Components
10.       In order to carry out the research program as planned, the following
components would be provided under the project:
(a) civil works at the research station of Petrolina/Juazeiro,
to provide the necessary laboratory and research facilities;
(b) research farm development;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at the station
mentioned;
(d) library documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants and fellowships
programs;
(f) land purchase; and
(g) establishment costs during the five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
11.       Priorities in research will vary from area to area and can only be
determined through an adequate survey of factors limiting production. In
general, however, emphasis will be on activities described below.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
Farming Systems Research for Semi-arid Areas
12.       The short-term goal of farming systems research for the semi-arid
lands which can support limited but rainfed agriculture would be to study
the potentials of current farming methods in relation to: land use, crops
and cropping systems, crop rotations, length of growing season, response to
fertilizers, crop harvesting, and storage systems. On the basis of existing
knowledge, the farming systems team would then investigate the constraints to
increased production and identify them as to cause, i.e., crop varieties,
cultivation methods, depth of rooting, fertilizer response and optimum growing
period. During this stage, the research teams would require close collabora-
tion with the National Commodity Centers in the area to determine optimum
adaptation of crop varieties and the potential of both native and exotic
range species as forage for livestock.
13.       The long-range program would commence with an in-depth study of the
natural resources available to determine how these may be best adapted to
provide a wider range of agricultural pursuits and crop rotation through a
rational use of these available resources. Such studies comprise:
(a) control of available moisture by the use of ridges, furrows,
and bunds;
(b) depth of seeding;
(c) control of water runoff during the short rainy season, plus
storage and recycling of runoff;
(d) control of wind and water erosion;
(e) determination of water storage capacity of the soil profile,
and methods by which this may be modified;
(f) evaporation rate under varying systems of cropping and clean
cultivation;
(g) moisture conservation effects of crop rotation and fallowing;
(h) evaluation of native herbage during the dry period;
(i) water balance relationships in connection with crop or live-
stock utilization during different periods.
The above studies would be closely linked to general hydro-ecological studies
of each watershed and the micro-region influenced by it.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
Studies of Irrigated Agriculture for Arid Zones
14.       The program would study the efficient utilization of the hydrologic
resources of the area and particularly those which can be successfully deployed
for agricultural production. Hydrologic studies of the watershed and storage
area would be basic to planning the rational and economical use of this basic
resource. Special features to be studied are (a) water quality, (b) costs of
distribution, (c) fertility of land to be irrigated, and (d) value of crops
to be grown.
15.       In an area such as the Northeast, where cropping is extremely
varied, high value crops, such as vegetables, rice, cotton, alfalfa, or
crops grown for seed under controlled (isolated) conditions, would play
an important part in each crop selection and rotation, The farming system
research team must, in each case, work closely with economists and irrigation
engineers to ensure that irrigation costs are warranted, based on crop returns
under these manmade conditions for crop production in the specific micro-
region under study. Studies of freshwater fish culture are frequently in-
cluded in such studies.
C. Organization and Management
16.       The farming systems research program team would be headquartered at
Petrolina/Juazeiro. The station director would have overall responsibility
for administration of the headquarters station and would represent EMBRAPA
for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an advisory
council 1/ and two associate directors, one for administrative services,
usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and one for
the implementation of the research program.
17.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program
and would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation, coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs) and
other cooperating institutions concerned with research on farming systems.
The application of new technology to production methods in the Northeast
would be achieved through contacts between the team leader and representa-
tives for the appropriate research programs at these stations. An annual
workshop would be held at which current activities would be evaluated and
plans for the research program for the coming years would be made. Input
from producers would be achieved through representation at such workshops,
or field days, in the distinct sub-areas of major production as may be
necessary. As a member of the advisory council, the associate director
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership).



ANNEX 12
Page 9
for research would provide the necessary liaison betwen the council and
producers (see also Annex 17).
Research Facilities and Research Station Network
18.       One hundred ha of land would be made available at the Petrolina/
Juazeiro center. In addition, the UEPAE at Alagoinha would set aside 50 ha
for farming systems research on rainfed crops being grown in the agreste and
humid littoral regions since the Petrolina/Juazeiro site is more suited for
irrigated agriculture. The UEPAEs that would receive farming systems techno-
logy for farm demonstration and adaptation purposes would be Bacabal, Teresina,
Caico, Itapetinga, Quissama, and Irece, Caruaru, Penedo, and Barreiras. There
would be no distinct network of research stations since the program is expect-
ed to be areawide in its approach and would provide outreach and technology
transfer programs for the Northeast, which it is designed to serve (see
Table 4 for details).
Collaborating Institutions
19.       A list of the institutions engaged in development programs for the
Northeast is provided in Table 4. These are designed to promote development
of the area through various investment programs. Several of these projects
concern agricultural production for specific agricultural commodities, and
would invo'lve agronomic research carried out in collaboration -with the EMBRAPA
program.
20.       The following institutions, therefore, become important to the
research program:   Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE),
the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), the Company for Development of the
Sao Francisco Valley (CODEVASF), and the National Development for the Improve-
ment of Dry Land Agriculture (DNOCS).
University Contract Research
21.       The State University at Ceara (Fortaleza) has long been interested
in agricultural research projects in the area, and has previously made contri-
butions to livestock improvement projects. Once again, it should be stressed
that, in planning for such cooperative programs, the initiative should come
from EMBRAPA after the projects have been selected and proposed by the program
leader/coordinator and his planning committee at the Petrolina/Juazeiro station.
This will ensure that contracted research is an integral part of the research
program and does not focus on academic problems.
D. Staffing
22.       Staffing of the research program to be executed at the Agricultural
Research Center for the Semi-arid Tropics would require 113 professional staff



ANNEX 12
Page 10
and 50 administrative support staff. Part (54 professional and 18 support
staff) of this group would be available to guide the somewhat enlarged pro-
gram of farming systems for the agreste humid littoral area from the Alagoinha
UEPAE Station, as indicated by the staffing list (Table 5). In addition,
staff at the UEPAEs mentioned in paragraph 18 would participate in the
on-farm demonstration of farming systems practices.
E. Training and Fellowship Program
23.       The project would provide for the training of 35 professionals in
M.Sc. programs and seven in Ph.D. degree programs. In addition, funding
would be provided for 15 staff participants for in-service, short-term
training courses, mainly in the areas of farming systems technology for
arid and semi-arid agriculture, but including range management and irriga-
tion techniques, as may be required (Table 2).
F. Consultants
24.       It is recognized that, if properly administered and staffed, the
agricultural research program for the semi-arid tropics could well have a
most significant impact on the economy of the Northeast, particularly in
the short term since much of the technology to be adapted has been devel-
oped in similar regions, for example, in India and Mexico. The program
cannot be successful in this crucial early stage, however, unless there is
an immediate infusion of trained professional staff with experience in the
specific areas of research required. These areas are dry land farming
systems, minimum tillage systems, soil conservation, ecology, mechanization
and irrigation. To meet this need during the initial two or three years of
program execution, the project would provide for nine man-years of long-term,
and 6.5 man-years of short-term consultancy services. Of these, one consult-
ant would be attached to the Agricultural Research Center at Petrolina/Juazeiro
where he would assist the associate director in research program planning
(Table 2).
G. Linkages to International Centers
25.       The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
(ICRISAT) is ideally suited to provide a wide range of existing technology,
not only on farming systems, but on several major grain crops of the region,
i.e., sorghum and millets, and some of the pulses such as pigeon pea and chick-
pea, which have been developed for cultivation in low rainfall areas. The



ANNEX 12
Page 11
International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement (CIMMYT) has also devel-
oped maize and sorghum, with adaptation to similar semi-arid zones in Mexico,
and the CIMMYT outreach program is already active in Brazil. The Institute
for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) is also in a position to assist with cassava
and bean programs within the farming systems concepts for this area, and
farming systems research for the small farmer has been developed at CIAT,
Colombia during the past several years. Cooperative programs with either
of these three International Institutes would, therefore, offer excellent
opportunities for technology transfer at the research center and UEPAE
levels where it could then be adapted and adopted to the needs of the
Northeast region (see also Annex 17).
III. COST ESTIMATES
26.       The cost of the Research Program for Farming Systems in the Semi-
arid Zone (Northeast) for the five-year period would be approximately
US$15.3 million. The estimated costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
National Research Program for Farming Systems in the Semi-arid Zone
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$ 1000)
Center
us$
Development Costs
Civil Works 1/                                    1,293
Land Purchase                                       _
Laboratory Equipment 1/                             236
Furniture 1/                                         41
Research Farm Development 2/                        100
Farm Eouipment 3/                                   100
Vehicles 4/                                         215
Library, Documentation and
Information Services 5/                            150
Technical Services 6/
Research Specialists                              1,162.5
Fellowships - long term                             753
Fellowships - short term                            105
Establishment Cost 7/                            11,126.5
TOTAL                                  15,282.0
1/ Details are given in Annex 15.
2/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
3/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
17/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one small bus.
Additionally, 30 automobiles per research center and 10 automobiles
per UEPAE.
5/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000 per UEPAE.
/ See Table 2.
7/ See Table 3.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Semi-arid Zone
Technical Services
Long Term       Short Term    Unit Cost          Total
- - - (man years) - - - -    -(constant 1976 US$) -
Research Specialists
Program advisor/scientific consultants                 3              1.0           75,000         300,000
Dry land farming specialist                            2              1.5           75,000         262,500
Irrigation farming specialist                          1              1.0           75,000         150,000
Mechanization - minimum tillage specialist             1              1.0           75,000         150,000
Ecologist - plant physiologist                         1              1.0           75,000         150,000
Other specialists                                     1               1.0          75,000          150,000
Sub-total                                                                                        1,162,500
Fellowships                                    Number of Participants
Long Term:
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 years)                             30                            11,000         330,000
M.Sc. abroad (2 years)                                 5                            26,000         130,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 years)                              2                            16,500          33,000
Ph.D. abroad (4 years)                                 5                            52,000         260,000
Short Term:                                              15                             7,000         105,000
Sub-Total                                                                                          858,000
TOTAL                                                                                            2,020,500
N) m
e  1X
December 1975 



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I FROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Semi-Arid Zone
A. Staff Development Pattern
B.  Schedule of Establishment Cost j
----------- Project Year ----Tot-al
1        2        3        it       :
A.  Nlumber of Senior Sciertists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)     20       31       36       41       51
Uumber of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)             25       37       43       50       62
- - -- - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -__- - - - - - - - - _ __ - - - _ __ - - - _ __ -- - . __ - - - _ __ -- - _ __ - -- _ __ - -
B. Salaries                                        969   1,453    1,695   1,938    2,422             8,477
Other Operating ExpenEes                       291      436      678      775      969           3,149
Establishment Cost of the Program 1/         1,260    1,889    2,373    2,713    3,391          11,626
Current Establishment Cost .2/                 100      100      100      100      100             500
Incremental Establishment Ccst               1,160    1,789    2,273    2,613    3,291          11,126
------------------ (onstant in 1976 US$o000) -       .
1/ Establishment cost comprises salariep and other operating expenses. Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories. Other onerating exnenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 4050 of salaries for year 3 to 5.  (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
2/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.



ANNEX 12
Table 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network: Research Program for Farming Systems in Semi-
arid Zone (Northeast) and Collaborating Development Institutions and Programs
Name                      Designation        State                Designated            1/
Role within Program -
1. Funded by Project
Petrolina/Juazeiro        ARC            Pernambuco/Bahia         I     II    III
Campina Grande            NCC            Pernambuco                     II    III
Sobral                    NCC            Ceara                          II    III
Cruz das Almas            NCC            Bahia                          II    III
Bacabal                   UEPAE          Maranhao                       II    III
Teresina                  UEPAE          Piaui                          II    III
Caico                     UEPAE          Rio Grande do Norte            II    III
Alagoinha                 UEPAE          Paraiba                  I     II    III
Caruara                   UEPAE          Pernambuco                     II    III
Penedo                    UEPAE          Alagoas                        II    III
Quissama                  UEPAE          Sergipe                        II    III
Irece                     UEPAE          Bahia                          II    III
Barreiras                 UEPAE          Bahia                          II    III
2. Not Funded by Project
Pacajus                   UEPAE          Ceara                          II    III
1/ The following code applies to designated research activity:
I - Core Research.
II - Adapative and Adoptive Research.
III - Farming Systems Research and Technology transfer.
December 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 4
Page 2
3. Collaborating Development Institutions and Programs
SUDENE       (Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
Objectives:  1.  Promote integrated rural development
2.  Colonization and agrarian reform
3.  Agro-industries
4.  Commercialization of agricultural products
5.  Improvement of pastures and livestock
6.  Exportation of agriculture and livestock products
7.  Support of research projects beneficial to the Northeast
through contractual arrangements
BNB           (Bank of Northeast Brazil)
Objectives:  1.  Industrial
2.  Agriculture and livestock
3.  Infrastructure - electrification
4.  Credit for sustaining economic activity
5.  Exportation of agricultural commodities
6.  Pre-investments
7.  Promotion of tourism
8.  Research on scientific and technological development
(financial assistance in economic, industrial and
agronomic research, adaptation of production techniques)
9.  Formation of human resources
10. Training of executives
CODEVASF      (Development Company for the San Francisco Valley)
Objectives: 1. Promotion in the San Francisco Valley
PIN -/        (National Integrated Program)
Objectives:  1.  Construction of roads linking the Northeast with other
areas of Brazil
2. Promotion of colonization along the Trans-Amazon highway
3. Area mapping
DNOCS         (National Department for Irrigation Projects)
Objectives: Development of irrigation projects in Northeast; mostly
supplemental irrigation along with promotion and development
and use of improved technology
POLONORD- 2/ (Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
ESTE -
Objectives: General development strategy and promotion of projects in the
area
1/ Includes programs funding development by state and Federal institutions
in the area.
2/ These are programs, as indicated in 1J above, and not development insti-
tutions, per se.
December 1975



ANNEX 12
Table 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern f or the Agricultural
Research Center for the Semi-arid Zone (Northeast)
Senior    Junior       Support    Labor
Station Director                       1           -           -          _
Program Direction
Associate Director - Research           1          -           -
Crop Improvement                                                         1C
Plant Breeder                           1          3           6
Entomologist                            -          1           2
Plant Pathologist                       -          1           2
Plant Ecologist                         1          1           2
Crop and Animal Production                                               2C
Agronomist                              1          2           3
Soil Scientist                                     2           3
Weed and Brush Control                  -          1           2
Seed Production                         -          1           2
Agricultural Engineer                   -          1           2
Range Management                        -          1           2
Animal Production                       1          1           2
Technical Services                                                       50 1/
Economist                               -          1
Library and Information                 -          1           I
Technology Diffusion                    -          1           1
Training Officer                        -          1           1
Station Manager                         -          1           1
TOTAL                        6          20 2/      33 2/       80
Acministrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Services                1          -           -           -
Finance Officer                         -          1           4
Personnel Officer                       -          1           3           -
Purchasing Officer                      -          1           4
Security Officer                        -          1                      h
Repair and Maintenance                  -          1           2          10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                  10
Secretaries (Adninistrative)                                   2
TOTAI,                       1           5         25          14
1/  Includes 40 for general station operations.
T/ A number of these in Crop Improvement ani Livestock Production might be
seconded from t he Commodity Centers.



ANNXEX 12
Table 5
Page 2
A-Lagoiniha bub-station
Staffing Level
Senior    Junior      Support     Labor
Program Direction
Associate Director - Research             1          -           -          -
Crop Improvement                                                           10
Plant Breeder                             1          2          3
Entomologist                              1          1          2
Plant Pathologist                         1          1          2
Crop Production                                                            20
Agronomist                                1          3          3
Soil Scientist                            1          3          3
Weed Control Specialist                    -         1          2
Seed Production                           -          1          2
Agricultural Engineer                      -         1          2
Technical Services                                                         30
Economist                                 1          2          3
Library and Information                   -          1          2
Technology Diffusion                      -          1          3
Training Officer                          -          1          2
TOTAL                             7        18          29         60
Acdministrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Services                   1         -           -          _
Finance Officer                            -         1          2
Personnel Officer                         -          1          1
Purchasing Officer                        -          1          1
Security Officer                          _          _          _
Repair and Maintenance                    -          1          2           6
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                    6
Secretaries (Alministrative)                                    2
TOTAL                             1         4          14          6
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR FARMING SYSTEMS IN THE
CAMPOS CERRADOS (CENTRAL-WEST)
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Agricultural Importance of the Region
1.        The Central-West represents 22.1% of Brazil's total land area and has
a population of 5.1 million, or 5.5%, of the national total. The area comprises
two states (Mato Grosso and Goias) and the Federal District. Agriculture ac-
counts for approximately 45% of income, but total income is low, forming only
3.3% of national income (1968).
Physical Aspects
2.        Much of the region has never been effectively settled and, as a
result, many of its subregions are not clearly defined. The northern areas
phase into the southernmost Amazon forest area, but the remainder of the
Central-West consists of upland plains or savannas and the swampy lowlands
to the south of Mato Grosso State.
Climate
3.        The climate of the entire region is basically tropical, with annual
average temperatures ranging between 20 C to 26 C. Maximum temperatures range
between 300C and 320C and minimum temperatures between 24 C to 26 C in the
North, but as low as 60C in the extreme South. Rainfall, which occurs dur-
ing summer and autumn, varies between 1,100 to 2,000 mm per annum, and is fol-
lowed by a winter dry season of four to six months. The dry season is more
pronounced in the state of Goias to the Northeast and less so to the South.
Soils
4.        The rather unique properties of the Campos Cerrados soils are the
major limiting factors to successful agricultural exploitation of the area.
There are four major regions, based upon soil classification. The first of
these is the plains area with low scrub and sparse grass land. The topog-
raphy is regular, with only slight undulations. Soils are heavily deficient
in calcium and phosphorous and fertility is low. Occasionally the vegetation



ANNEX 13
Page 2
increases in isolated dense patches, indicating higher fertility, and the
color of the latosols shows a higher organic matter content. These areas
generally occur in southern Goias and in central Mato Grosso.
5.        The second homogenous soil type is that of the Mato Grosso lowlands.
These are areas of poor drainage forming part of the drainage basin of the
Parana and Paraguay rivers. The soils are generally somewhat more fertile
than those in Group 1 and respond well to pasture and rice cultivation.
6.        The third soil type is found in northern Mato Grosso.  It occurs
on the high plateaus which are divided by several mountain chains, themselves
forming high plateaus and uplands. Little is known about the agriculture
potential of these soils, but it is thought to be generally poor.
7.        The fourth soil type is in the central depression of Brazil.  The
concretionary soils of its higher tableland occasionally provide arable strata
which can be classified as yellow-red podzols. Little is known of the agri-
cultural potential of the area.
8.        In general, agriculture has been found to be successful in small
micro-regions, frequently along river banks, principally in southern Goias and
in southern and western Mato Grosso, but much still remains to be learned about
the agricultural potential of the remaining 70% to 80% of the lowlands and
upland plains.
Principal Agricultural Regions
9.        Agriculturally, and based on crop potential, the Central-West is
divided into three principal subregions as follows:
(a) Southern Goias. 2-iain crops produced here are cotton, beans,
maize and cassava, rice,sugarcane, fruits and vegetable oil
crops. The predominance of basic food crops reflects the
need to supply six major urban centers in this area.
(b)  Southern Nlato Grosso.  This is the most developed part of
the state. Several important agricultural areas are to be
found, based on several areas of red, well structured latosols.
Principal crops grown on these soils are rice, maize, beans
and pasture for beef cattle and, more recently, soybeans
and wheat. The largest urban market for the region is
Campo Grande.
(c)  South and West Lowlands.  This is an area of 100,000 km2,
poorly defined in vast subareas and frequently referred to as
the "pantanal" or swamp. Native "pantanal" pasture grasses
of several species are plentiful in much of this area through-
out the year, and beef cattle production is the most important
agricultural activity.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Population Density
10.       As indicated in the following table, the population density is rela-
tively low, about 2.7 inhabitants per km2.  The Federal District of Brasilia
cannot, of course, be considered typical of the area, but the food demands of
this large urban center play a most important role in the agriculture of the
region.
Area                        Population Density
State or Federative Unit            (kn2)    Population              (km2)
Mato Grosso                   1,231,549        1,623,618                1.32
Goias                           642,092       2,997,570                4.67
Brasilia, D.F.                    5,814          546,015              93.91
Total for Central-West        1,879,455       5,167,203                2.75
Source:   Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, IBGE, 1973.
Agricultural Production
11.       Livestock (beef cattle) production is one of the most important agri-
cultural activities of the area. However, pig and poultry raising is also
significantly close to the urban centers. The region as a whole has 22% of the
national beef herd.
12.       The major crops cultivated are rice, cassava, maize, beans and cotton.
The state of Goias produced 68.4% of these crops on a regional basis and Mato
Grosso, 31.4%. Only maize, cassava and beans are produced in any significant
quantity in the Federal District. Compared to the agriculture activity of the
North (Amazonia), extractive agriculture plays only a limited role in the
Central-West. Among plant extracts harvested from the southern tip of
Amazonia, however, are rubber, ipecac, "mate" and some hardwoods. Extractive
activities reach commercial proportions in both the states of Goias and
Mato Grosso.
B. Current Status of Research
13.       Under the Department for National Agricultural Research (DNPEA)
system, research for the Central-West was organized under the Institute of
Agricultural Research and Experimentation of the Central-West (IPEACO), with



ANNEX 13
Page 4
headquarters at Sete Lagoas and having jurisdiction over the states of Minas
Gerais, Goias and Mato Grosso and the Federal District. Research activity
under this system tended to be concentrated on crop research at Sete Lagoas.
However, under the former Institute of Animal Husbandry, at the Uberaba
Experimental Farm, a limited amount of livestock research was also carried out.
14.       From purely climatic considerations, large areas of the Central-West
present suitable growth conditions for a fairly wide range of crops. However,
the soils of the region are largely of low to medium fertility and, in general,
present a formidable challenge to research to alter their chemical composition
sufficiently to make them adaptable for economic crop production. Major con-
straints are acidity, lack of one or more of the major elements required for
plant nutrition, basically nitrogen and phosphorus, and high levels of undesir-
able elements, particularly aluminum, which create a serious imbalance and
unfavorable chemical reactions within the soil, thus impeding normal plant
nutrition. Several of these problems have proved difficult to identify
accurately, and even more costly to rectify, on a commercial basis.
15.       In addition to problems of soil fertility are the problems concerned
with more rational use of the huge grass-covered savannas of southern Mato
Grosso. Incentives, such as credit, subsidized use of fertilizer and other
soil additives, such as lime, may be necessary before any significant advances
can be made in bringing these vast regions into agricultural production.
Land tenure must also be considered as having a decisive role in crop produc-
tion since 9% of holdings are in excess of 1,000 ha and cover 74% of the land
area currently under some type of intensive or extensive exploitation.
II. THE RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF
FARMING SYSTEMS IN THE REGION
A. General Description
16.       The basic philosophy of the research program would be to determine
the methodology whereby large areas of this region can be adapted to livestock
and crop production. In order to accomplish this, the program would have
three main thrusts, as follows:
(a) a study of existing natural resources of the area;
(b) research to overcome limiting factors currently identified
as constraints in the soil/climate/plant relationships on
which agriculture must be based; and
(c) following the results of (a) and (b) above, research to deter-
mine the most efficient systems of production for the area
and adapt such technology to the micro-regions being developed.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
17.       Since much work has already been done on the cataloging of the natu-
ral resources of the area, it is now necessary to give greater emphasis to the
utilization of this knowledge and to the development of farming system techni-
ques designed to influence production.
18.       The headquarters for this research would be at Planaltina, D.F.
Satellite or substation activities would be carried out at Goiania, Campo
Grande, Cuiaba and Sete Lagoas, as necessary. The existing EMBRAPA network of
stations within the region, i.e., national commodity centers and UEPAEs, would
all support the work on Campos Cerrados type problems and would be available
for the testing of farming systems developed at the headquarters center at
Planaltina.
Research Program Components
19.       Under the project, the following components would be provided:.
(a) civil works, additions to laboratory facilities at Planaltina;
(b) research for development at Planaltina;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at the above station;
(d) library, documentation and information services;
(e) techhical services, including consultants and fellowships
programs; and
(f)  incremental establishment costs of the project d-,ring a
five-year period.
Details of the investments to be made are given in Tables I, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
20.       To achieve objectives, the program would comprise the following:
(a) completion of soil maps;
(b)  identification and mapping of vegetation types and their
relationships to soil types;
(c) based on the above, identification of areas for specific agri-
cultural enterprises, i.e., livestock, annual crops, perennial
crops or forestry;



ANNEX 13
Page 6
(d) where soil characteristics are found to be a major constraint
to production, the determination of factors involved and methods
by which such limiting factors may be overcome; and
(e) development of farming systems based on the knowledge acquired,
crop selection and economic factors for all levels of agricul-
tural production.
The disciplines required to carry out the research program of the center would
be reflected in the staff list and include the following areas of study:
production agronomy, plant protection, plant physiology, soil science, agro-
stology, animal husbandry, agricultural economy, agroclimatology, and agricul-
tural engineering.
C. Organization and Management
21.       The station director would have overall responsibility for admin-
istration of the headquarters station and would represent EMBRAPA for commu-
nity relations at the center. He would be assisted by an advisory council 1/
and two associate directors -- one for administrative services, usually
functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and one for the imple-
mentation of the research program.
22.       The associate director for research as team leader/coordinator would
have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program and would
provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting, execution
and evaluation, coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs) and other co-
operating institutions concerned with research on farming systems and the
application of new technology in regional agricultural production. This
would be achieved through contacts between the team leader and representa-
tives of the appropriate research programs at these stations. An annual
workshop would be held at which current activities would be evaluated and
plans for the research program for the coming years would be made. Inputs
from producers would be obtained at such workshops or field days in the
distinct subareas of major production. As a member of the advisory council,
the associate director for research would provide the necessary liaison
between the council producers (see also Annex 17).
Research Facilities
23.       An area of 1,600 ha of land is available at the Planaltina station.
Fifty percent of the required laboratory facilities are also available and
one additional laboratory building would be provided under the project.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members
but composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for
example of membership).



ANNEX 13
Page 7
Facilities at the national commodity centers for livestock, beans and rice
in the area would also be provided for under the related commodity research
programs, as would be the equipping of the two state UEPAEs at Cuiaba and
Goiania (see Table 4).
Collaborating Institutions
24.       Because of the unique qualities of some of the soils of the Campos
Cerrados and the present limits of knowledge concerning these soils, there
is still considerable interest, both in Brazil and abroad, in pursuing this
line of research. In recent years, scientists from North Carolina State
University have been engaged in this research under a USAID contract
(AID/csd/2806) and, provided that the research problems selected follow closely
the specific aims of the center's approved research program, continued colla-
boration would be mutually beneficial in the future (see Table 4).
University Contract Research
25.       The Federal University of Brasilia, through its Zoological Garden,
has indicated an interest in collaborating with the program. Provided such
programs originate from the center at Planaltina and are carefully coordinated
to support, rather than duplicate the regional programs of research, it is
believed such contract research could be beneficial (see alsc Annex 17).
D. Staffing
26.       Staffing for the research program to be executed by the agricultural
research center at Planaltina would require 75 professional staff and 31
administrative support staff. It is proposed that, as necessary, research
teams from Planaltina would also carry out work at the commodity research
centers and UEPAEs within the project area of influence (Campos Cerrados) as
may be necessary to achieve research program goals. It is estimated that no
more than 25% of this staff is currently available, thus requiring the addition
of 75% before full development at the end of the five-year implementation
period. A training officer has been included in the staff list to assist in
staff development and training programs (see also Table 5 for staff list at
full development).
E. Training and Fellowship Program
27.       The project would provide for the training of 29 staff members in
M.Sc. degree programs, and a further eight candidates would receive training
to the Ph.D. level. In-service training courses, mainly in the area of
farming systems technology, would be provided for 15 staff members during
the period of project execution (Table 2).



ANNEX 13
Page 8
F. Consultants
28.       A research center consultant would be provided for the first three-
year period to develop effective programs from the rather complex range of
problems which typify the Campos Cerrados area, particularly the unique soil
problems of that region. In addition there would be 18 months of short-term
specialist consultant services, mainly for international cooperative projects
and program review (Table 2).
G. Relationships with International Research Centers
29.       The similarities of the soil problems to be found in the savannas
("llanos") of eastern Colombia and those of the Brazilian Campos Cerrados
have been noted on many occasions. Not all soil scientists agree as to the
extent of similarities involved, but there is certainly sufficient common
ground to warrant a close exchange of knowledge and technology in this area
by cooperative agreement with the International Center for Tropical
Agriculture (CIAT), Cali, Colombia. In addition to soil-related studies,
the range of crops to be studied under farming systems is almost identical,
i.e., rice, maize, beans, cassava and pasture production for beef cattle.
III. COST ESTIMATES
30.       The cost of the Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos
Cerrados (Central-West) for the five-year period would be approximately
US$6.5 million. The estimated costs are summarized in Table 1.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 13
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$'000)
Center
US$
Development Costs
Civil works  X                                  771
Land purchase          1                         70
Laboratory 2 uipment _                           209
Furniture J                 2/                   30
Research farm development -                        -
Farm equipment 2/                                100
Vehicles  4/                                     215
Library, documentation and information
services  X.5I                               150
Technical Services
Research specialists                            337.5
Fellowships - long term                         703.5
Fellowships - short term                         105
Establishment Cost  7/ 3]756
Total                            6,447.0
1/ Details are given in Annex 15.
2/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
3/ Based on an estimate of US$100,00 per station.
4/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one
small bus. Additionally, 30 automobiles per research
center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
5/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000
per UEPAE.
j See Table 2.
j/ See Table 3.
September 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados
Technical Services
Research Specialists        Long Term       Short Term        Unit Cost            Total
Man-years        Man-y6ars           (constant 1976 US$)
Program Advisor/Scientific   3.0                1.5            75,0OO             337,500
Consultants
Subtotal                                                                          337,5oo
Number of
Fellowships, Long Term             Participants
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 yrs.)                24                     11,000              264,000
M.Sc. abroad (2 yrs.)                    5                     26,000             130,OOO
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                 3                     16,500              49,500
Ph.D. abroad (4 yrs.)                    5                     52,ooo             260,000
Fellowships, Short Term                15                      7,000             105OOO
Subtotal                                                                          808,500
TOTAL                                                                 1,1146,00
December 15, 1975



ilpA zIl
AGRIC'ULTURAI RESEARCH I TPROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados
A. Staff Development Pattern
B. Schedule of Establishment Cost I/
-------------- Project Year -----      --             -otal
1        2         3
A.  TNumber of Senior Sclentists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)        15        23        27       30        38 _
!'umber of Junior Scientists (E.S S.)              15        22       26        30       37
a.  Salaries                                          646       970    1,131    1,293    1,616              5,656
Other Operating ExerenEes                         194       291      452       517      646            2,100
Establishm,ent Cost of the Program 1/             840    1 261               1,810    2,262             7,756
CurrTent Establishment Cost 2/                    800       800      800       800       800           4,000
Incremental Establishment Cost                     40      461       783    1,010    1,462             3,756
------------------ (constant in 1976 uS$ ooo)-----
1/ Establishment cost comprises salaries and other operating expenses. Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories.  Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for year 3 to 5. (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
2/  Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.
December 15, 1975



Table V,
BRAZIL
AGRICUTILURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for Research Program
for Farming Systems in the Campos Cerrados (Central-West)
Designated -?oi-
NamTe               Designation          State            Wsithinteo
1. Funded by Project
Planaltina                    ARC            Brasilia, D.F.      I      II     III
Goiania                       NCC            Goias               I      II     III
Campo Grande                  NGC            Mato Grosso          I     II     III
Agua Limpa                    NCC            Minas Gerais        I      II     III
Sete Lagoas                   NCC            Minas Gerais        I      II     III
Cuiaba                        UEPAE          Mato Grosso                II     III
2. Not Funded by Project
Goiania                       UEPAE          Goias                      II      III
Dourados                      UEpAE          Mato Grosso                II     III
Sete Lagoas                   UEPAE          Minas Gerais               II     III
Flexil2 ndia                  UEPAE          Minas Gerais               II     III
Brasilia                      IJEPAE         Brasilia, D.F.             II     III
Carumba                       UEPAF          Mato Grosso                II     III
Patos                         UEPAE          Minas Gerais               II     III
c/
3. Development Institutions and Programs-2
National Council for          CONIEPE        Promotion of livestock enterprises,
Livestock Development                        par-ticularly beef cattle
Fund for Developrent          FDPI           Coordination o' land sett*lennnt and
of Integr.ated Programs-                     Agricultural Development Pmgrrmns
Program for National           PIN           Coordination of Dewlopment Projects
Integration3/                                witihin the National Development Plan
(PND II, 1975-79)
Superintendency for the       SUDEC0         Regional Development Programs
Development of the
Central-West
Campos Cerrados               POLOCENTRO    Incorporation of new agricultural
Development Program2/                        areas
Development Progra            PRDDEPAN       Rural infrastructure and livestock
for the Pantanal-.'                           development
2/ The following code applies to designated research activity:
I   = Core Research
II = Adaptive and Adoptive Research
III = Farming Systems Research and Technology Transfer
2/  Programs which fund the state and Federal institutions executing development plans.
I/ Indicates programs rather than development institutions.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 13
Table 
BRAZIl
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the Agricultural
Research Center for Campos Cerrados, Planaltina
Staffing Level
Senior    Junior       Support     Labor
Station Director                            1          -           _
Program Direction
Associate Director - Research               1
Crop Improvement                                                             15
Plant Breeder                               1          4           6
Entomologist                                1          1           2
Plant Pathologist                          1           1           2
Crop Production                                                              20
Agronomist                                  1          3           4
Soil Scientist                              1          3           4
Weed Control Specialist                                1           2
Crop Physiology                             1          2           2
Agricultural Engineer                                  1           2
Chemists                                               1           2
Soil Physicists                                        1           2
Livestock Production                                                          10
Livestock Specialist                        1          2           2
Range Management                            1          1           2
Technical Services                                                           40
Economist                                   1          2           2
Library and Information                                1           1
Technology Diffusion                                   1
Training Officer                                       1           0
Station Manager                           __-          1           1
Sab-total                              11         27          37         5
Acdninistrative Services
Associate Director -
Administrative Services                    1
Finance Officer                                         1          4
Personnel Officer                                      1           3
Purchasing Officer                                      1          4
Security Officer                                       1           0          4
Repair and Maintenance                                  1          2          10
Secretaries (Research Staff)                                      10
Secretaries (Administrative)                                       2
Sub-total                               1          5          25         14
OOTAL                                  12         32         62          99
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR FARMING SYSTEMS IN AMAZONIA (NORTH)
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Agricultural Importance of the Region
1.        This vast region of 3.58 million kmn  represents 42% of total land
area of Brazil and encompasses one of the world's great hydrographic basins.
It is sparsely populated, approximately 1.02 persons per km,2 and the popu-
lation of 3.6 million represents only 3.9% of Brazil's total population. It
comprises three states: Acre, Amazonas and Para, and three federal territo-
ries; Rondonia, Roraima and Amapa. Agriculture plays a relatively small
role in the economic activity of the area, accounting for only 22.2% of
regional GNP. The region as a whole accounts for 2.1% of Brazil's GNP (1968).
Population Density
2.        As indicated by the following table, population density is extremely
low (1970 figures):
Area                                 Population
State or Territory               (km2)           Population        Density per km2
Acre                       152,589           218,006               1.43
Amapa                      140,276           116,480               0.83
Amazonas                 1,564,445           960,934               0.61
Para                     1,248,042         2,197,072               1.76
Rondonia                   243,004           116,620               0.48
Roraima                    230,104            41,638               0.18
TOTAL         3,578,460         3,650,750               1.02
BRAZIL                   8,511,965        94,508,554              11.10
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brazil, 1974.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Physical Aspects
3.        The area has been the subject of several broad surveys, mainly
by aerial and satellite photography, but detailed observations by ground
survey have largely been limited to the populated pockets where water
or road transportation has permitted access.
4.        Climate.  The area can be broadly classified into three distinct
regions: (a) the hot, humid equatorial tropics without a pronounced dry
season in the west and north; (b) the hot, humid equatorial region, with
a short (winter) dry season, mainly in the eastern portion of Roraima
Territory and stretching east in a narrow belt to the Amazon basin, north of
Belem, and (c) the hot, tropical climate to the southeast, stretching as
far south as Cuiaba, Mato Grosso, and having a marked dry season of three
to four months. There is a wide range in temperatures, from minimums of
12 to 160C and highs of 34 to 440C. Annual rainfall varies between
1,500 mm to 3,000 mm and up to 4,000 mm has been recorded in northern
Amapa.
5.        Soils.  Broad soil reconnaissance has been carried out on only
seven percent (557,000 km2) of the entire area, with detailed surveys of
perhaps 25% (121,000 km2) of that region being complete. Contrary to popu-
lar belief, the soil types are by no means homogeneous, and this presents
several problems when agricultural development of the area is being con-
sidered. The major broad classification of the soils to be found in the
region are: yellow and red to deep-red latosols; concretionary laterites,
black and yellow podzols; grumosols; hydromorphic laterites, humid gleys,
alluvials of recent fluvial action by the main rivers; and the saline soils
in the main drainage deltas. From an agricultural viewpoint, the most prom-
ising soils are frequently the yellow latosols, which are well drained and
are heavily forested. On removing the forest, however, the thin cap of
organic soil is quickly oxidized and the soils, in general, are found to
be of low fertility but of good structure and suitable for agriculture when
carefully managed.
Principal Agricultural Regions
6.        Although not clearly defined, and obviously selected more on the
basis of access and limited infrastructure than for selected land use, one
or two agricultural regions can be identified. In general, the regions are
located along the river banks, at easily accessible points, and rely on a
few major urban centers such as Belem, l4anaus, Santarem, Macapa, Porto Velho,
Boa Vista and Rio Branco. These townships provide a base both for necessary
supplies and for markets for the agricultural products. The regions are
further typified by two main types of agricultural enterprise as follows:



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(a) Livestock production. Most livestock operations are located
in the states of Para, Amazonas and Acre. Typically, these
operations use unimproved pasturage, which appears after the
felling of the forest stand. The main enterprise of these
regions is beef cattle or buffalo for meat and milk. Areas of
high ground surrounding the farm building may additionally be
used to cultivate small quantities of subsistence crops, such
as rice, cassava, maize and beans. Where the elevated plains
are sufficiently high above the water table, commercial crops
of sugarcane, black pepper and jute may be grown.
(b) Extractive Agriculture. The term is used to indicate the
harvesting of native, uncultivated species which occur spon-
taneously but frequently in fairly large quantities within
the natural forest stand. Good examples of the products are
rubber, Brazil nuts, and vegetable oils, mainly from palm
species, and hunting operations for the commercial production
of skins from wild animals to be found in the forest.
7.        In addition to livestock and extractive agriculture, the following
10 field crops are important for the population centers in Amazonia: cassava,
black pepper, rice, corn, beans, banana, citrus, sugarcane, jute and tobacco.
With the exception of black pepper and jute, all crops are considered mainly
within the framework of subsistence agriculture, or for marketing in small
quantities within the local market structure. With few exceptions, these
crops are grown with only limited recourse to modern technology. The main
exception is black pepper, where the Japanese have introduced many innovative
procedures.
B. Current Status of Research
8.        The National Research Council (CNPq) has played a leading role in
coordinating biological research in the general area, but its interest has
been narrowly scientific rather than applied and it has tended to guide the
programs of the Institute for Research for Amazonia (INPA), the Regional
Survey Program (RADAM) of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and the research
program of the Institute for Agricultural Research of the Western Amazon
(IPEAAOC) towards cataloging of natural resources of the area. During
recent years, there has also been an increasing awareness of the need to
preserve the delicate biotic balance of this vast region, which is the largest
area of virgin rainforest in the hemisphere, and one which man has as yet
only partially explored. In recent years, the cataloging of forest reserves
has been undertaken by the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development (IDBF)Y
None of these studies, however, has attempted to link the resources of the
area to rational land use on the basis of well planned farming systems research.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
On the other hand, the stations linked to the old National Department for
Agricultural Research (DNPEA), namely, the Institute for Agricultural
Research in the North (IPEAN) and the Institute for Agricultural Research
in Western Amazonia (IPEAAOc), have carried out research programs related
to specific crops and the latter (IPEAAOc) has recently begun research
on farming systems and a study of their effect on the virgin forest complex
of the area west of Manaus.
9.        Achievements have, admittedly, been limited in the past, as is
evidenced by the fact that this huge land area, 42% of the national total,
produces only some 2.1% of GNP, with agricultural production amounting to
only about US$27.8 million. 1/ Agriculture is characterized by low levels
of production, low levels of mechanization and of fertilizer consumption
(5.6 kg/ha on cultivated land), a low level of technology and a concentra-
tion of the population in extractive agriculture. Added to this is the
highly unbalanced pattern of land tenure, i.e., 10% of holdings account for
83% of the land area, with 90% of all farms less than 100 ha in size.  Most
of the region's agricultural activity is in the state of Para.
10.       Population distribution, socio-economic factors and lack of
infrastructure in the area obviously present formidable obstacles to be
overcome before even modest advances can be made in improving agricultural
production in the region. In addition, it is now generally accepted that
the agricultural frontiers should hne advanred qlnwlv and nrily aufter ronrzicir-
able thought has been given to ensuring adequate protection of the delicate
environmental balance of the region. Other difficulties relate to methods
of improving yields within the concepts of extractive agriculture and the
need to select cultivated crops which are compatible to the preservation
of the environment.
II. THE RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR FARMING SYSTEMS IN AMAZONIA (NORTH)
A. General Description
11.       Although the project area of influence has been designated as the
entire northern region (Amazonia), it is obvious that development must proceed
gradually from the few population nuclei where minimal infrastructure has
provided a foothold for agricultural production. The program would of necessity
have strong linkages to the national programs for the development of the region.
These are outlined in the second National Development Plan 1975-1979 (PNDII) and
comprise the establishment of 15 development poles. These selected areas lie
principally in southern Para and northern Mato Grosso and Goias states. Initial
1/   Source:  Annual Statistics:  Brasil (IBGE), 1973.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
emphasis would be placed on livestock production and selected crops such as
rubber, sugarcane, cacao, oil palm, rice, black pepper and tropical fruits.
The program designated POLAMAZONIA would be funded through the Program
for National Integration (PIN), the Program for Land Distribution and Agri-
cultural Incentives in the North and Northeast (PROTERRA), and the Fund for
Development of Integrated Projects (FDPI). Implicit within the program is
the policy of national development of the land and mineral and forest resources
of the area.
Program Goals
12.       Broad program goals would be to diversify greatly the opportunities
for developing agricultural enterprises through:
(a) adoption and improvement of existing crops to provide greater
flexibility in the utilization of natural resources through
crop rotation and farming systems technology;
(b) providing linkage to the appropriate commodity centers to
obtain new technology for the increase of yields of the
subsistence crops, such as cassava, beans, rice, maize; and
(c) introduction of high value specialty cash crops, such as
Brazil nut, black pepper, "guarana" 1/ and rubber where
applicable to raise the income level of the farmer.
13.       Since considerable facilities and expertise already exist for
carrying out forestry studies at the IDBF and INPA institutes, concentration
on food, fiber and vegetative oil crops at the Belem and Manaus (IPEAAOc)
centers would avoid duplication of effort in this area. Conversely, INPA and
IDBF would be encouraged to refer all problems concerning crops and animal
husbandry to the Belem Agricultural Research Center for the Amazon, where
the farming systems research program is to be headquartered.
Program Components
14.        Components of the Program for Farming Systems Research for the
Amazonia Region to be provided under the project are as follows:
(a) completion of the necessary laboratory and research
facilities at the headquarters station, Belem;
(b) research farm development at the station;
(c) provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles for use at
the Belem station;
1/   A tree crop, the fruits (seeds) of which are used in the manufacture of
a popular soft drink of the same name.



ANNEX 14
Page 6
(d) library documentation and information services;
(e) technical services, including consultants, fellowship and
short course training programs; and
(f) establishment costs of the program during a five-year period.
Details of the investments proposed are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
B. Detailed Features
15.       The research program would be designed to achieve the following
broad objectives:
(a) based on the existing inventories of natural resource potential
already widely available from previous studies, select areas
suitable for crop and livestock production programs, with an
emphasis on resource management as opposed to additional resource
inventories and basic science;
(b) based on regional development programs, select the combinations
of crops and livestock adaptable to each region and micro-region;
(c) after crop priorities have been established, develop farming
systems, incorporating these crops, consistent with the
preservation of the basic soil, water, and plant relationships;
(d) with the assistance of producers, and the respective commodity
program teams for the crops concerned, formulate extension
bulletins for use by farmers at various levels of inputs, i.e.,
land, capital, labor, credit, market facilities, and the like;
(e) based on basic data on forest species being harvested in the
wild state, devise methods by which such sources of income
can be increased without permanent alteration to the natural
forest complex; and
(f) adopt and adapt existing livestock husbandry techniques to
local conditions designed to improve returns from mixed
beef/dairy herds and further develop the use of water buffalo
in the area.



ANNEX 14
Page 7
C. Organization and Management
16.       The Research Program for Farming Systems in Amazonia would be head-
quartered at Belem, Para. The station director would have overall respon-
sibility for administration of the headquarters station and would represent
ENIBRAPA for community relations at the center. He would be assisted by an
advisory council 1/ and two associate directors--one for adm4inistrative
services, usually functioning as the financial and procurement officer, and
one for the implementation of the research program.
17.       The associate director for research, as team leader/coordinator,
would have full responsibility for all technical aspects of the program
and would provide the necessary leadership for program planning, budgeting,
execution and evaluation, coordination with satellite stations (UEPAEs) and
other cooperating institutions concerned with research on farming systems
and the application of new technology to production techniques. This would
be achieved through contacts between the team leader and representatives
of the appropriate research programs at these stations. An annual workshop
would be held at which current activities would be evaluated and plans for
the research program for the coming years would be made. Inputs from
producers would be obtained at such workshops or field days in the distinct
sub-areas of major production. As a member of the advisory council, the
associate director for research would provide the necessary liaison between
the council and producers (see also Annex 3).
Project MIonitoring and Evaluation
18.       Based on the crops which are selected to form part of the farming
systems research in the area, the program leader/coordinator would form a
coordinating committee with representatives from the commodity centers
concerned and the farming systems specialists from the satellite stations
(UEPAEs) in the area. This coordinating team would assist the program leader
in the formulation of the research program and would also contribute sugges-
tions from producers of the specific crops being studied. This same committee
would select a few of its members to participate in the annual internal evalua-
tion review of the research program. In addition, there would be periodic
(two to three years) external review in which international consultants would be
asked to participate. The same coordinating teams, with representatives
from farmers and collaborating research institutions, would formulate the
technological packages of basic farming systems information for delivery to
the UEPAEs and state level extension agencies.
1/   The advisory council would normally comprise seven to nine members but
composition might vary according to location (see Annex 17 for example
of membership).



ANNEX 14
Page 8
Research Facilities
19.       The headquarters for farming systems research for Amazonia located
at Belem would have 6,500 ha of land. This station already has sufficient
administrative and laboratory facilities so no civil works would be involved
under the project. Additional equipment would be supplied as indicated under
project components. The main satellite stations would be situated at Manaus
(with 3,000 ha) and at Altamira (with 500 ha) where the adaptation of technol-
ogy to micro-regional differences and on-farm demonstrations would take
place (see Table 4).
Collaborating Institutions
20.       It is expected that the results of basic biological, geological
and hydrologic research currently being carried out at INPA (Manaus) would
be available to the Belem station on a cooperative basis. The Brazilian
Institute for Forestry Development would collaborate on forestry aspects of
the program in a similar way.
University Contract Research
21.       Performance of university contract research would depend upon the
specific needs of the research program as a whole. If required, it would be
carried out on the basis of requests from EMBRAPA to the university most
capable of handling the work. Projects designated for university contract
research would be clearly defined, be of rather short duration, and concern
basic research to provide necessary linkage to ongoing long-term research
within the farming systems program. The Federal University of Para in Belem,
is well located to carry out such projects, but it is unclear whether its areas
of study would coincide with the broad concepts of farming systems research.
Data on economic factors of production, however, could well pravide basic
study projects in which new crops are to be introduced.
D. Staffing
22.       Staffing requirements for the farming systems program of research at
the Belem Station would be 81 professionals and 40 administrative support
personnel. It is expected that, as necessary, research teams wzould carry out
work at the commodity research centers and UEPAEs within the area of project
influence (Amazonia) to test and demonstrate new farming systems techniques
developed at the center. It is estimated that 20% of staff requirements are
already available at Belem; however, a comprehensive in-service training
program would be necessary to train staff in farming systems technology as
quickly as possible (see also Table 5).



ANNEX 14
Page 9
E. Training and Fellowship Program
23.       A training officer would be available at the Belem station to
assist in the selection of candidates for the fellowship program. The project
would provide funds for the training of 30 staff members for the M.Sc. degree
and eight to the Ph.D. level. In addition, provision would be made for short
training courses for 15 selected staff members in specific areas of study
related to the program (Table 2).
F. Consultants
24.       Since the concept of applied farming systems research, particularly
in the planning stage, is new to the project area a full time research center
consultant would be stationed at Belem for three years. The consultant chosen
should have had experience with similar research projects at a Tropical Re-
search Institute, such as the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) Ibadan, Nigeria. In addition, 2.0 man-years of short-term consultancy
services would be provided (Table 2).
G. Linkages to International Centers
25.       In matters relating to farming systems technology for the humid
tropics, an interchange of views and of personnel on short-term assignments
would be extremely beneficial to the program. The similar interests of IITA,
Nigeria would indicate that valuable assistance might be obtained from the
outreach program of that center. On a commodity basis, i.e., rice, cassava
and beans, the International Center of Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) at Cali,
Colombia is also well suited to enter into cooperative programs with the
center at Belem. Additionally, the International Livestock Center for Africa
(ILCA), Addis Ababa, Ethiopia is engaged in production (farming systems)
research for the humid and semi-humid tropics, particularly in the field of
range management, and may be in a position to collaborate with the Brazilian
livestock research program for Amazonia.
III. PROGRAM COST ESTIMATES
26.       The cost for the Research Program for Farming Systems in Amazonia
for the five-year period would be approximately US$10.4 million. The
estimated costs are summarized in Tables 1, 2 and 3.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in the Amazonia
Project Cost
(constant 1976 US$'000)
Center
US$
Development Costs
Civil works  I/                                    -
Land purchase                                    290
Laboratory equipment  1 
Furniture _S]                2                     _
Research farm development -/                     100
Farm equipment  3/                               100
Vehicles  4/                                     215
Library, documentation and information
services  5/                                 150
Technical Services 6/
Research specialists                             375
Fellowships - long term                          765
Fellowships - short term                         105
Establishment Cost -8,334.5
Total                                   10,434.5
1/ Details are given in Annex 15.
2/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.
3/ Based on an estimate of US$100,000 per station.
4/ Per station: two farm trucks and one large and one
small bus. Additionally, 30 automobiles per research
center and 10 automobiles per UEPAE.
5/ Based on US$150,000 per research center and US$82,000
per UEPAE.
6/ See Table 2.
7/ See Table 3.
December 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTUERAL FESMERCII I PROJECT
Research Programs for Farming Systems in Amazonia
Technical Services
Research Specialists                    Long Term       Short Term         Unit Cost               Total
-Man-years      Man-years                 (constant 1976 US$)
Progran Advisor/Consultants                 3                2              75,000              375,000
*J;.,Cta1                                                                                      375,000
Fellc-hirns                         No. of Participants
L:,rr T*rm~
Pi.Sc. in Raazil (2 yrs.)                24                              11,000              264,000
1ISc. abroad (2 yrs.)                     6                              26,000              156,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 yrs.)                  2                              16,500               33,000
Ph.D. abroad (4 yrs.)                     6                              52,000              312,000
Qhort Term                               15                                7,000             105,000
Subtor,al                                                                                        870,000
TOTAL                                                                               1,245,000
ro H
December 15, 1975



AGKIClJCLTURAL RESEARCH I FROJECT
Research Program for Farming Systems in Amazonia
A. Staff Development Pattern
B. Schedule of Establishmnent Cost 1/
--------- Project Year ---          -               otal
1        2        3        lk       5
A.  Number of Senior Scier.tists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)     16       23        27       31       39
.umber of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)             17       25       29       34        42
-----------------------_______._____________________.__________________________________
B. Salaries                                        715    1,073    1,252    1,431    1,788.5          6,259.5
Other Operating ExDenEes                       215      322      501      572       715.o         2,325.o
Establishment Cost of the Program .1/          930   1.395    1.753    2,003    2,503.5           8,584.5
Current Establishment Cost 2/                   50       50       50        50       50o.           250.0
Incremental Establishment Ccst                 880    1,3) 5    1,703    1,953    2,L53-5         8,334-5
______----_----- (constant in 1976 us$:ooo 
1/ Esta&-lishrkent cost com, rises salaries and other operating expenses. Salary computations reflect staff
development pattern and specific salaries for different staff categories.  Other operating expenses are
estimated to be 30% of salaries in the first two years and 40% of salaries for year 3 to 5.  (See
establishment cost computations, Annex 16, Table 4.)
2/ Current establishment cost has been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per researmh station.
DD 1 1



AN,NEX 14
Table 4
BRAZIL                           Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Research Station Network for Research Program
for Farming Systems in Amazonia
Desitnated       1/
Name            Designation      State     Role within Pro
1. Funded by Project
Belem                      ARC         Para           I    II    III
Ilanaus                     NCC        Amazonas       I    II    III
Xlanaus                     UEPAE      Amazonas            II    III
2.  Not Funded by Project
Rio Branco                 UEPAE       Acre                II    III
Porto Velho                UEPAE       Roraima             II    III
3. Collaborating Institutions
Instituto de Pesquisas
da Amazonia               INPA       Amazonas                          TV
Instituto Brasileira de
Desarrollo Forestal       IBDF       Para                              IV
Instituto Brasileiro de
Pesquisa Agropecuaria
do Amazonia Ocidental    IPEAAOe    Amazonas                          IV
Conselho Nacional de
Pesquisas                 CNaPc      Xmazonas                          IV
2-/ The following code applies to designated research activity:
I = Core Research
II = Adaptive and Adoptive Research
III   Farming Systems Research and Technology Transfer
IV = Contract Research
December 15, 1975



ANNIEX 14
'fable 4
Page 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Program for Farming Systems in Amazonia
4. Development Institutions for Amazonia (North) Region-
1.  BEFIEX           Commission for Providing Fiscal Benefits to
Special Export Programs
2. FDPI   2/         Fund for the Developaent of Integrated Programs
3.  DICRA            National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform
4. izm /?AD-i1       Natural Resource Survey Unit of Ministry of
Energy and M'ines
5.  pm}   2/         Program for National Integration
6.  POAIA7ZOlN.IA 2/ Prograr, for the Development of A^gricultural and
Agro-mineral Centers in Amazonia
7.  PROAGRO2/        Guarantee Program for Agricultural Production
E.  PROTERK2/        Program for Land Distribution and Agricultural
Incentives in the North and NTortheast
9. SUDAN             Superintendency for the Develo-rient of Amazonia
10.  SUFRAMA          Superintendency for the MIanaus Free Trade Zone
1/  Including special programs which fund development nrojects in
the area.
2/  Programs which provide funds to development institutions for
execution of sneelfic nrogrsbs.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 14
BRAZIL                                 Table 5
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Basic Staffing Pattern for the Agricultural
Research Center for the Humid Tropics
Staffing Level
Senior   Junior    Support   Labor
Program Direction
Director                         1
Associate Director               1                    -
Crop Improvement                                                  40
Horticulturist                   1
Oil Palm                               1           2
Coconut                                1           2
Rubber                                 1           2
Pepper                                 1           2
Entomologist                     1        1           2
Plant pathologist                1        1           2
Nematologist                     -        1           1
Plant physiologist               -        1           2
Agronomist                       1         -          -
Maize                         -        1           2
Rice                          -        1           2
Beans                         -        1           2
Cassava                       -        1           2
Sub-total                        6       12          23
Crop Production                                                   40
Agronomist                       1         -          -
Mixed cropping                -        1           2
Farming systems               -        1           2
Soil scientists                  1        -           -
Chemist                       -        1           1
Physicist                     -        1           1
Microbiologist                -        1           1
Engineers                        -        1           -
Water management              -        1           1
Processing and storage        -        1           1
Animal Production                                                 20
Animal scientist                 1         1          2
Veterinarian                     1         1          2
Parasitologist                   -         1          1



ANNEX 14
Table 5
Page 2
Staffing Level
Senior   Junior    Support    Labor
Technical Services                                                 4
Biometrician                     -        1           1
Economist                        1        1           -
Library and information          -        -           1
Technology diffusion             -        1           i
Training officer                 -        1           1
Station manager                 _         1           1
Sub-total                       11       28          42       104
Administrative Services
Administrative officer           1        -           -         -
Finance officer                  -        1           6         -
Personnel officer                -        1           5         -
Purchasing officer               -        1           6         -
Security officer                 -        1           -         5
Repair and maintenance           -        1           2        10
Secretaries (research staff)                         12
Secretaries (administrative)   _                      3
Sub-total                        1        5          34        15
TOTAL                   12       33          76       119
December 1975



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Program
Civil Works Components
1.        There are four building types, namely:
(a) Agricultural Research Centers (ARC);
(b) National Commodity Centers (NCC);
(c) Unidades de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
(UEPAE), Type 1, covering three crops; and
(d) UEPAE, Type 2, including animal facilities.
A schedule of accommodation for each center (Appendix 1) has been derived
from the functional programs and the proposed staffing lists (Annexes 3 to
14). These schedules may be refined during the course of overall pL:ojecL
development, but there will be little change in magnitude. The centers will
be planned to permit easy growth and modification to accommodate changes of
function and program over time. At each center, provision has been made for
technology diffusion, together with facilities for preparation of demonstra-
tion materials. In line with a policy decision by EMBRAPA, housing would not
be provided.
Civil Works Implementation
2.        Currently, EMBRAPA does not have personnel, nor established proce-
dures, for implementing civil works projects. The Directorate of Construction
and Installation of the Ministry of Agriculture, which specifically serves
only the departments of that Ministry, will not participate in the proposed
Bank project so it is essential that EMBRAPA establish a Technical Support
Unit (TSU) to administer, not only the Bank-financed project, but also others
with civil works components. The unit should consist of architects and
engineers with supporting staff. In view of the importance of specifying
laboratory equipment and preparing the pre-ordering schedule, officers
having this specific responsibility should be included on the staff. Terms
of Reference for this unit are included as Appendix 2.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Development Plan Study and Report
3.        In order to provide more precise definition of the civil works com-
ponent in terms of both content and anticipated progress, a Development Plan
should be prepared for each center by EMBRAPA. This should be assembled
in consultation with the Program Advisor, the TSU, and the executive architects
and should cover the following topics, inter alia:
(a)  site development plan for both land and physical facilities;
(b)  soil, subsoil and climatic data, together with topographical
survey;
(c)  more precise definition of the functional program indicating
outline of proposed activities and staff needs;
(d)  schedule of accommodation, refining the material in Appendix 2,
as necessary;
(e)  preliminary list of major laboratory equipment;
(f)  preliminary budget covering land preparation, civil works,
furnishings and equipment; and
(g)  anticipated progress schedule for implementing the construction
program.
(h)  each plan and progress reort would be sent to the Bank for review
and approval.
Professional Services
4.        The technical problems presented by the civil works components are
within the expertise of national architects. No expatriate consultants
would be recommended, provided that the Bank retains the right of approval
of appointments.
Construction Supervision
5.        The executive architects would provide customary periodic supervi-
sion, and, in line with traditional practice, local firms of architects or
engineers would be retained for day-to-day supervision.
Retroactive Financing
6.        To reduce the impact of increasing construction costs, an early start
must be made on architectural work and, hence, construction. To this end,
retroactive financing up to the sum of US$500,000 is recommended to cover the
initial costs of professional fees, which may be incurred before loan approval.
Included are architectural and engineering fees, topographic and soil surveys.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Sites
7.        Currently, EMBRAPA does not have legal title to all sites at which
construction is proposed. In fact, at several locations, the actual site has
not yet been identified. EMBRAPA would therefore make legal arrangements to
purchase or use the land.
Procurement
8.        Due to the dispersed nature of the components of the civil works
project, transportation difficulties, and the relatively small size of the
construction contracts, it is doubtful that foreign contractors or even major
national contractors would be interested. However, Government procurement
procedures would be followed, contracts would be advertised in the local and
national press and foreign bidders would not be excluded. Work by force
account would be permitted in remote areas where it is difficult to obtain
contractors by competitive bidding. For the procurement of laboratory equip-
ment and other specialized items, standard Government procedures would be
followed and awards would be made taking into consideration local maintenance
potential, including service contracts, in addition to bid price.
Basis of Cost Estimates
9.        Cost estimates as shown in Table 1 have been prepared on the follow-
ing basis:
(a) Using the schedules of accommodation for each center, construction
cost estimates have been prepared by a local architect based on
elemental cost estimates of analogous building types. Estimates
for individual centers have been adjusted for local prices by using
established provincial cost variation factors. It has been assumed
that municipal water and electrical supply will be available at all
centers. The cost of road works, drainage, boundary fencing and
irrigation is carried under the allowance to farm development.
(b) Design and construction contingencies have been included.
(c) At some sites, there are buildings that would be used in connection
with the proposed project. These have been taken into account,
but the minor costs of undertaking these repairs and upgrading
have not been quantified. EMBRAPA would undertake the required
work concurrently with new construction.
(d) In the absence of reliable estimates for laboratory equipment,
gross assumptions have been made.
(e) Furniture costs have been based on unit costs supplied by EMBRAPA
in the light of recent experience.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(f) Professional fees amount to 6%. This allowance is based on the
fee scale of the Institute of Architects of Brazil and the
conventional fee charged by structural and mechanical services
engineers.
(g) Brazil has a long history of inflation and high rates of escala-
tion of construction costs so that it is virtually impossible
to forecast the degree of escalation during the life of the
proposed project. However, the effective reevaluation of the
US dollar against the cruzeiro has a mitigating effect on the
impact of escalation. In 1975, it was found that the conventional
allowance recommended by Central Projects, plus the effective
reevaluation of the US dollar, equalled the observed escalation
factor. On this basis and on the grounds that the loan would be
made in US dollars, the conventional allowance would be adopted,
namely, 1976, 14%; 1977, 12%; 1978, 12%.



ANEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 1
BPRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Schedule of Accommodation
Farming Systems Research Program for
the Central West (Campos Cerrados)
Agricultural Research Center at Planaltin&
SPACE                            STAFF OR  NO. OF       AREA    TOTAL AREA
CAPACITY   UNITS        M2         M2
1.  CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Chemistry                  )  5 juniors    1    x   225         225
) 10 techs.
Soil Science
Soil Physics
Crop Physiology                 )  2 juniors    1   x    75    =    75
) 3 techs
Preparation Room                               1   x    45    =    45
Instrument Room (a/c)I/                        1   x    30    =    30
Plant Pathology                 ) 1 junior       1   x    45          45
) 2 techs
Preparation Room      1/                       1   x    15    =    15
Instrument Room (a/c)-'                        1   x    10    =    10
Entomology                      ) 1 junior       1   x    45    =    45
2 techs.
Preparation Room                               1   x    15          15
Instrument Room (a/c)!/                        1   x    10          10
Glassware and Chemical Store                     1   x    25    =    25
P. Research Offices
Senior Researchers (9)             1             9   x    16.5  =   148.5
Assistants (9)                                   9   x    11    =    99
Clerical (13) +
Secretaries (10) and Filing                                        161
C. Administration
Director                            1            1   x    25    =    25
Associate Director(Research)        1            1   x    i6.5  =    16.5
it       "t   (Administrat.)  1              1   x    16.5  =    16.5
Assistants for:
Finance, Personnel
and Purchasing                   1             3   x    11    =    33
Clerical (11) + Secretaries (2)                                  =    91
Storage + Filing                                                 =    50
Photocopy                                                        =    10
j a/c = air conditioned



AlNX 15
Appendix 1
Page 2
STAFF OR  NO. OF      AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                           CAPACITY   UNITS        M          M
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with
Projection (a/c)                    50        1   x     75  =       75
Exhibition Foyer
(ext. to lecture room)                         1   x     30  =       30
Seminar Rooms                         10        2   x     18  =       36
Library
Display and Periodicals                       1   x      25  =      25
Office                               1        1   x     18  =       18
Workroom                             2        1   x      20  =      20
Stacks (a/c)                 15,000 vols.    1   x      85  =       85
Communications Specialist              1        1   x      20  =      20
Illustration, Photo Studio
Darkroom                           2        1   x     60  =       60
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                    =     100
Toilets                                                        =      75
Cleaners                                                              30
Plant Room/Switch Gear/
Telephone Equipment                                          =      40
1,804.5
Grossing factor 35%   =     631.5
Deduct existing usable space    =   - 852
New construction     =   1,5
2.  FIELD SERVICES CENTER
Field Laboratories
Weed Control                  ) 1 junior        1   x      45  =      45
) 2 techs.
Plant Breeding                )14 juniors       1   x    150  =      150
) 6 techs.
Seed Chambers (temp. and
humidity controlled)                          2   x      25  =      50
Mechanical Workshop and
Implement Sheds
(addition)                                                  =      200
Field Offices (additional
space)                                                     =      100
Meteorological Station                                         =      20
Headhouse with Greenhouses and
Nursery (addition)                                          =     600
1,165
NOTES                                 2           Grossing factor avg 10%      115
1. Existing Service Building - 400 m ),)Considered adequate                  1,280
Animal Management Building - 300 m )
2.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for instrument rooms
should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
3.  Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops will not be provided.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 3
Farming Systems Research Program
for the Northeast (Semi-Arid Tropics)
Agricultural Research Center at Petrolina
STAFF OR   NO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                            CAPACITY    UNITS     M2          M2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Science         )             1 junior     1   x    6o          60
)            3 techs
Preparation Room                              1   x    15   =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                         1   x    10          10
Plant Pathology      )             1 junior     1   x    45   =      45
)            2 techs
Preparation Room                              1   x    15          15
Instrument Room (a/c)                         1   x    10          10
Entomology            )            1 junior     1   x    45   =      45
)            2 techs
Preparation Room                              1   x    15          15
Instrument Room (a/c)                         1   x    10          10
Glassware and Chemical Store                    1   x    25   =      25
B. Research Offices
Senior Researchers                 1            5   x    16.5 =      82.5
Assistants (7)                   1            7   x    11   =      77
Clerical (9), Secs (10)                                           133
and files
C. Administration
Director                           1            1   x    25   =      25
Associate Director (Research)      1            1   x    16.5        16.5
(Administration)   1            3   x    11   =      33
Clerical (11) + Secs (2)                                     =     91
Storage and Filing                                             =     50
Photocopy                                                      =     10
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with                 50            1   x    75   =      75
Projection (a/c)
Exhibition Foyer                                1   x    30   =      30
(extn. to lecture room)
Seminar Room                      10            2   x    18          36
Library
Display and Periodicals                       1   x    25          25
Office                           1            1   x    18   =      18
Workroom                         2             1   x    20   =     20
Stacks (a/c)               15,000 vol.        1   x    85   =      85
Communications Specialist          1            1   x    20   =      20
Illustration, Photo Studio         2            1   x    60   =      60
and Dark Room



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 4
STAFF OR   NO. OF   AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                            CAPACITY    UNITS     M2          M
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                          75
Toilets                                                        =     75
Cleaners                                                             30
Plant Room/Switch Gear/                                        =     4o
Telephone Equipment
1,357
Grossing factor 35%     =    475
1,852
2. FITELD SERVICES CENTER
Field Laboratories
Plant Breeding                     4 juniors    1   x   150   =    150
6 techs
Weed and Brush Control             1 junior     1   x    45          45
2 techs
Seed ProduLction                   1 junior     1   x    45          45
2 techs
Seed Chambers
(tempt. & humidity controlled)                  2   x    25          50
Seed Processing and Storage                                      =    500
Herbarium                            3            1   x    20   =      20
Fertilizer/herbicide/                                                 200
Insecticide Storage
Mechanical Workshop and
Implement Sheds                                                =    400
Field Offices                                                         100
Meteorological Station                                           =     20
Headhouse with Greenhouses and                                      1,000
Nursery
2,530
Grossing factor avg 10%    =    2-53
2,783
NOTES:  1.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for instrument
rooms should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2. Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops will not be
required.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 5
Jational Research Program for Cotton Center
At Campina Grande
STAFF OR   NO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                            CAPACITY    UNITS      M2           M2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Fertility                  )  2 juniors    1   x    75           75
3 techs
Preparation Room
Instrument Room (a/c)
Plant Pathology                )  2 juniors    1   x    75           75
) 3 techs
Preparation Room                                1   x    15          15
Instrument Room (a/c)                           1   x    10          10
Entomologist                    )  2 juniors    1   x    75           75
) 3 techs
Preparation Room                                1   x    15          15
Instrument Room (a/c)                           1   x    10          10
Fiber Technology                ) 1 junior       1   x    45   =      45
) 2 techs
Sample Conditioning Room                       1   x    60          60
(both controlled atmosphere)
Glassware and Chemical Store                     1   x    25   =      25
B. Research Offices
Lab. Researchers (4)               1             4   x    16.5 =      66
Agronomist                          1            1   x    16.5 =      16.5
Economist (production)             1             1   x    16.5 =      16.5
Assistants for:
Station Mgt., Training,
Agronomy, Biometrics and
Agric. Engineer                  1             7   x    11          77
Clerical (10), Secs.(8)+ filing                                 =    126
C. Administration Office
Director                            1            1   x    25          25
Associate Director(Research)        1            1   x    16.5 =      16.5
I!      t" (Administration)   1              1   x    16.5 =      16.5
Assistants for:
Finance, Purchasing and
Personnel                      1             3   x    11   =      33
Clerical and Secretarial (11+2)                                 =     91
Storage and filing                                                    50
Photocopy                                                       =     10



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 6
STAFF OR  INO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                             CAPACITY    UNITS      M2          M
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with Projection            50         1   x   75  =      75
(a/c)
Exhibition Foyer                                   1   x   30         30
(extension to lecture room)
Seminar Rooms                          10          2   x   18         36
Library and
Display and Periodicals                          1   x   25         25
Office                                1          1   x   18=        1B
Workroom                               2         1   x   20=        20
Stacks                         10,000 vols.      1   x   55         55
Communication Specialist (1)             1         1   x   20         20
Illustration, Photo Studio
and Dark Room                                    1   x   60  =      60
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                           75
Toilets                                                            75
Cleaners                                                           30
Plant Room/Switch Gear                                       =     40
Telephone Equipment                                                25
1,533
Grossing factor 35%    537
2,070
2. FIELD SERVICES CENTER
Plant Breeding Lab.                 )       2 juniors 1   x   75  -      75
3 techs
Weed Control Lab.                   )       1 junior  1   x   60         60
)       3 techs
Service Building (cotton
ginning, delinting, etc.)                                        =    400
Seed Production an- St-rage                                             4co
Fertilizer, !erbicide, Insecticide
Storage                                                1   x   200      200
Mechanical Workshop and Implement
Sheds                                                                   40
Field Offices                                                           100
Meteorological Stati^3n                                                   20
Headhouse with Greenhouses and
Nursery                                                             1,300
2,955
r-^ sing  actor avl 10%    295
3,250
3.  DRYING FLOORS                                                               500
Notes:  1.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for
instrument rooms should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2. Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops will
not be required.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 7
National Research Program for Rice and Beans
Center at Goiania
STAFF OR   NO. OF   AREA    TOTAL ARE-h
SPACE                              CAPACITY    UNITS      M2         M2
1.  CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Science                    )  2 juniors       1   x   75  =      75
) 3 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                             1   x   10  =     10
Plant Pathology                 )  2 juniors       1   x   75  =      75
) 2 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                             1   x   10  =     10
Entomology                      )  2 juniors       1   x   75  =      75
) 3 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                             1   x   10  =      10
Biochemistry                    ) 1 junior         1   x   45  =      45
)  2 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Rocm (a/c)                             1   x   10  =     10
Glassware and Chemical Store                       1   x   50  =      50
B. Research Offices
Senior Researchers (6)             1               6   x   16.5=      99
Assistants (7)                     1               7   x   11  =      77
Clerical (8), Secs.(10) + Filing                               -    126
C. Administration Offices
Director                           1               1   x   25=        25
Associate Director (Research)      1               1   x   16.5=      16.5
It      if   (Administrat.)  1                1   x   16.5=      16.5
Assistants for:
Purchasing, Finance and
Personnel (3)                 1               3   x   11         33
Clerical and Secretarial (11+1)                                =      91
Storage and Filing                                             =      50
Photocopy                                                   =      10
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with
Projection (a/c)                50               1   x   75  =      75
Exhibition Foyer
(extn. to lecture room)                           1   x   30  -     30



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 8
STAFF OR    NO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                               CAPACITY    UNITS        M2        M2
Seminar Rooms                       10              2   x   18  =       36
Library and
Display and Periodicals            4 stations    1   x   25  =    __25
Office                             1              1   x   18  =      18
Workroom                           2              1   x   20  =       20
Stacks                         10,000 vols.       1   x   55  =      55
Communication Specialist (1)                        1   x   20  =       20
Illustration and Photo
Studio and Dark Room                            1   x   60  =      60
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                      =     75
Toilets                                                          -     75
Cleaners                                                         =      30
Plant Room/Switch Gear
Telephone Equipment                                            -     40
1,523
Grossing factor 35%           533
2,056
2. FIELD SERVICES CENETER
Plant Breeding Lab.              )  2 juniors       1   x   75  =       75
3 techs
Weed Contol Lab.                 )  1 junior         1   x   60  =      60
) 3 techs
Seed Production -.ab.            )  1 junior        1   x   45  =       45
2 techs
Seed Processing                                                  -    400
Seed Chambers (temperature
humidity controlled)                              2   x   25          50
Fertilizer/Herbicide/
Insecticide Storage                               1   x  200        200
Mechanical Workshop
Implement Sheds                                                     400
Field Offices                                                    =    100
Meteorological Station                                           -      20
Headhouse with Greenhouses and
and Nursery                                                    -  1,300
2,650
Grossing factor avg 10%           265
2,915
3.  DRYING FLOORS                                                              1,000
Notes:  1.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for instrument
rooms should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2.  Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops will not
be required
December 1, 1975



A=EX 15
Appendix 1
Page 9
National Research Program for Sheep and Goats
Center at Sobral
STAFF OR    NO. OF   AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                              CAPACITY    UNITS      M2          M2
1.  CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Animal Nutrition                   )  2 juniors      1   x   75  =      75
) 3 techs
Animal Physiology                  )  1 junior       1   x   45  =      45
Reproduction and Pathology        )  2 techs
Preparation Room                                   1   x   25  =      25
Instrument Room (a/c)                              1   x   15  =      15
Veterinary Prophylaxis             ) 3 juniors       1   x  120  =    120
Parasitology                    ) 5 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   25  =      25
Instrument Room (a/c)                             1   x   15  =      15
Meat Laboratory                    ) 1 junior                     =    100
)  2techs
Slaughter House, Cutting,
Chilling Room and Refrigerators                                     150
Glassware and Chemical Store                                      =     25
B. Research Offices
Senior Researchers (8)                             8   x   16.5=    132
Assistants (9)                      1              9   x   11  =      99
Clerical (17), Secretarial (10)                                 =    189
and Filing
C. Administration Offices
Director                           1               1   x   25=        25
Associate Director (Research)       1              1   x   16.5=      16.5
It     "I (Administration)   1                 1   x   16.5=      16.5
Assistants for:
Purchasing, Financing and                        3   x   11  =      33
Personnel
Clerical and Secretarial (11+2)                                 =     91
Storage and Filing                                              =     50
Photocopy                                                       =     10
D. Ancillaries
Lecure Room with
Projection (a/c)                 50               1   x   75  =      75
Exhibition Foyer
(extn. to lecture room)                           1   x   30  =      30
Seminar Rooms                     10               2   x   18  =      36



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 10.
STAFF OR   NO. OF      ARPA    TCTAL2AREA
SPACE                             CAPACITY    UNTITS       M           M
Library and
Display and Periodicals                           1   x   25         25
Office                           1                1   x   18  =      18
Workroom                          2               1   x   20  =      20
Stacks                        10,000 vols.       1   x   55  =       55
Communication Specialist            1               1   x   20  =      20
Illustration Photo Studio
and Dark Room                  2               1   x   60  =      60
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                     =      75
Toilets                                                         =      75
Cleaners                                                        =      30
Plant Room/Switch Gear
Telephone Equipment                                           -      40
1,816
Grossing factor 35%             636
2,145 2
2. FIELD SERVICES CEINTER
Field Laboratories
Weed and Brush Control            1 juniior       1   x   45  =      45
) 2 techs
Range Management               )  2 juniors       1   x   75  =      75
3 techs
Seed Production                !  1 junior        1   x   45  =      45
) 2 techs
Seed Chambers (temperature
Humidity Controlled)                            1   x   25  =       25
Stable for Controlled
Nutrition Experiments                            2   x  100  =    200
Fertilizer/Herbicide/
Insecticide Storage                             1   x  100  =    100
Mechanical Workshop and
Implement Sheds                                              =    250
Field Offices                                                    =     50
Autopsy Room and Incinerator                                     =     50
Met aorological Station                                          =     20
Greenhouses                                                           300
1,160
Grossing factor avg 10%o         116
1,276
NOTES: 1.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for instrument
rooms shoulid be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2. Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops will not be
required.
3.  Rather than constructing slaughtering facilities, it would be preferable
to use commercial facilities if available.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 11
National Research Program for Rubber
Center at Manaus
STAFF OR   NO. OF      AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                             CAPACITY    UNITS       M2          M2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Science                    )  2 juniors       1   x   90  =      90
)4 techs
Plant Physiologist              ) 1 junior         1   x   45  =      45
) 2 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   20  =      20
Instrument Room (a/c)                             1   x   15  =      15
Plant Pathology                 )  2 junior        1   x   90  =      90
)4 techs
Preparation Room                                  1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                            1   x   10  =      10
Entomologist                    ) 1 junior         1   x   45  =      45
) 2 techs
Preparation Room                                 1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                            1   x   10  =      10
Processing Technology           ) 3 juniors        1   x   90  =      90
) 6 techs
Preparation Room                                 1   x   15  =      15
Instrument Room (a/c)                            1   x   10  =      10
Glassware and Chemical Store                       1   x   25  =      25
B. Research Offices
Senior Researchers (8)             1               8   x   16.5=    132
Assistants (9)                      1              9   x   11  =      99
Clerical (14), Secs. (10) +
Filing                                                       =    168
C. Administration Offices
Director                            1              1   x   25=         25
Associate Director                  1               1   x   16.5=      16.5
Administrator                       1               1   x   16.5=      16.5
Assistants for:
Finance, Purchasing and
Personnel                      1               3   x   11  =      33
Clerical Secretarial (11+2)                                           91
Storage and Filing                                              =     50
Photocopy                                                       =     10



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 2
STAFF OR   NO.OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                             CAPACITY    UNITS       2         M2
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with
Projection (a/c)                   50            1   x   75  =       75
Exhibition Foyer
(extn. to lecture room)                           1   x   30  =       30
Seminar Rooms                        10             2  x   18  =       36
Library
Display and Periodicals                           1   x   25  =       25
Office                              1            1   x   18  =       18
Workroom                            2             1   x   20  =       20
Stacks                         10,000 vols.      1   x   55  =       55
Communication Specialist                            1   x   20  =      20
Illustration, Photo Studio
and Dark Room                     2             1   x   60  =       60
E. Support
General Storage and Records                                     =      75
Toilets                                                                75
Cleaners                                                              530
Plant Room/Switch Gear                                          =        4
Telephone Equipment                                            =      40
1,699
Grossing factor 55%           595
2,294
FIELD SERVICES CENTER
Plant Breeding Lab.              )   2 juniors      1   x   90  =      90
)  4 techs
Propagation                      )  1 junior        1   x  105  =     105
)  6 techs
Weed Control Lab.                )  1 junior        1   x   45  =       45
)   2 techs
Research Service Building                                       =      400
Fertilizer/Herbicide/ and
Insecticide Storage                                1   x  200        200
Mechanical Workshop and
Implement Sheds                                                =     400
Field Offices                                                   =      100
Meteorological Station                                                  20
Headhouse with Greenhouses and
Nursery                                                         1,200
2,560
Grossing factor avg 10%       256
2,816
DImES: 1.  If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for
instrument rooms should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2. Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshTps will not
be required.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 13
National Research Program for Beef Cattle
Center at Campo Grande
SPACE                             STAFF OR   NO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
CAPACITY    UNITS      M2          M2
Additions to Existing Buildings
A. Central Facilities
Seed Chambers
(temp. and humid. controlled)                          2   x   15  =       30
D. Ancillaries
Lecture Room with
Projection (a/c)                     50             1   x   75  =       75
Exhibition Foyer
(extn. to lecture room)                              1   x   30  =       30
Seminar Rooms                          10             2   x   18  =       36
Library
Display and Periodicals               4 stat        1   x   25  =       25
Office                                1             1   x   18  =       18
Workroom                              2             1   x   20  =       20
Stacks                           10,000 vols        1   x   55  =       55
Commmication Specialist (1)                               1   x   20  =        20
Illustration and Photo
Studio and Dark Room                                1   x   6o =        60
E.  Suppoi-
General Storage and Records                                               20
Toilets                                                            =      20
Cleaners                                                           =       5
Plant Room/Switch Gear
Telephone Equipnent                                             -       5
419
Grossing factor 35%       146
TOTAL                                     565



ANNEX 15
UEPAE Type 1      Complete Construction at bhe following sites:                   Page 14
Bacabal, Manuas, Penedo, Irece, Altamira
SPACE                             STAFF OR   NO. CF   AREA    TOTAL AREA
CAPACITY    UNITS      M2         M2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Laboratories
Soil Science                          )1 junior       1   x  30   =       30
)I tech.
Preparation Room                                    1   xi1    =        15
Instrument Room (a/c)                               1   x  10   =       10
Plant Pathology                        )1 junior      1   x  30   =       30
Preparation Room                                    1   x  10   =       10
Instrument Room (a/c)                               1   x  10   =       10
Entomology                             )1 junior      1   x  30   =        30
)l tech.
Preparation Room                                    1   xl1    =        10
Instrument Room (a/c)                               1   x  10   =       10
Glassware and Chemical Store
B. Crop Production Offices
Offices for: Agronomist
Farm Systems, Tech. Dtffusion                         3   x  15   =       45
Clerical (9)                                                              63
Secs.(2) + Files                                                   =      14
C. Administration
Superintendent                         1              1   x  25   =       25
Admin. Assistant                        1             1   x  11   =        11
Clerical Support for
Finance, Purchasing and
Personnel (6)                                                      -       42
Secs.(3) + Files                                                   =      21
Storage + Filing                                                   =      30
Photocopy                                                          =       10
D. Ancillaries
Classroom with projection (a/c)        30             1   x  45   =        45
Exhibition Foyer                                      1   x  30   =        30
Seminar Room                          10              1   x  18   =       18
Reference Library
Display + Periodicals                               1   x  3C            30
1/ Doing reseErch on three crop commcdities.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 15
STAFF OR   NO. OF    AREA    TOTAL AREA
SPACE                      CAPACITY    UNITS       M2         M2
Librarians' Office (1)              1                           =     20
Workroom                             1                          =     20
Stacks                         10,000 vols        1   x   55   =      55
Support                                                          =     30
General Storage                                                 =     25
Toilets                                                                20
Telephone Equipment/Switch Gear                                 =     10
Cleaners                                                        =     10
729
Grossing !actor 35%             255
984
2. FIELD SERVICES
Field Laboratories
Plant Breeding                )     1 junior   1      x   60   =      60
Seed Production               )     3 techs
Services Building, including                                     -    250
Seed Processing, and Drying
Fertilizer/Herbicide Store                                       -    100
Mechanical Workshop + Implement Sheds                            =    200
Meteorological Station                                           =      20
Greenhouses                                                      =     60
690
Grossing factor avg 10%          70
760
NOTES: 1. If laboratories are air conditioned, the space allowance for
instrument rooms should be incorporated in the laboratory area.
2. Building maintenance will be contracted out and workshops
will not be required.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix I
Page 16
LEPAE Type 2-/ - Complete Construction at the Following Sites:
Cuiaba, Itapetinga, Caruaru
SPACE                           STAFF OR    NO. OF        AREA     TOTAL AREA
CAPACITY     UNITS         y2           M2
Central Facilities (UEPAE Type 1)                                                729
Additional Offices
Animal Nutrition                         1            1      x   15    =      15
Livestock Specialist                     1            1      x   15    =      15
Secs. (1) + Files                                                       =     10
Additional Labs
Veterinary Lab/Office                    1            1      x   20    =       20
Preparation Roor                                      1      x   20    =      20
809
Grossing factor 35%   283
1,092
-'eld Facilities (UEPAE Type 1)                                                  690
Additional Field Facilities
Field Iabs                          )
Weed and Brush Control              )
Range -anagenent                                                  o L  1      60
Animal Chute and Weighing                                                      20
Station
770
Grossing factor averige 10%    77
Confinerent Corral                                                               400
1/ This is a basic Type 1 UE,PAE with additional facilities for animal wcrk.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 17
UJRAEs Types I and 2 - Additional New Construction at the Following Locations:
TyMe I 
Gross m
Teresina    Laboratories, crop production offices, library & conference           796
room
Caico            "                  "                                            796
Golania     Laboratories only                                                     236
Berreiras   Laboratories only                                                     236
Alagoinha   Laboratories and crop production offices                              401
Total                                                                      2,465
Type 2
Quissama    Laboratories, crop production offices, library & conference
roomm    109
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TECHNICAL SUPPORT UNIT
The Technical Support Unit (TSU) would be established within
EMBRAPA to handle overall project coordination and liaison with the Bank,
in respect to civil works and equipment. Staffing of the "SU is discussed
in para 2, Annex 15.
In particular, the responsibilities of the TSU would be to:
(a) assist EMBRAPA in assembling the architectural brief for the
executive architects;
(b) assist EMBRAPA with the selection and appointment of the
executive architects and in retaining other professional services;
(c) participate with EMBRAPA and the executive architects in preparing
the Development Plan Report for each of the Research Centers;
(d) in cooperation with the executive architects and engineers,
establish and manage a work program utilizing appropriate program-
ming tools such as network analysis for all activities during the
design, construction, and commissioning phase of the project;
(e) arrange for the review and approval by EMBRAPA and the Bank of,
inter alia, architectural and engineering reports, plans, speci-
fications and equipment lists at the following stages:
(i) schematic design;
(ii) final design; and
(iii) working drawings and contract documents.
(f) participate in the following:
(i) weekly meetings between EMBRAPA and the executive architects
during the design phase;
(ii) monthly progress meetings with the contractors and architects
during the construction phase;



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 2
(iii) selection and prequalification of contractors;
(iv) approval and supervision of bidding procedures; and
(v) adjudication and award of contracts.
(g) prepare the schedule and budget for laboratory equipment at
each center, establish procurement procedures, ascertain antici-
pated lead time for preparing the pre-ordering schedule;
(h) ensure that furniture is selected and installed according to
specification, as well as ensuring timely procurement in order
that the centers may be commissioned on schedule;
(i) oversee project progress, making weekly reports to EMBRAPA and
quarterly reports to the Bank;
(j) process contractors' bills for payment by EMBRAPA and subsequent
forwarding to the Bank for disbursement; and
(k) prepare a commissioning program, and, at the completion of
construction, participate with the executive architects in
advising EMBRAPA on the acceptance of the completed buildings.
January 29, 1976



ANNEX 15
Appendix 3
Page 1
PFAZIL
AGRJCULTURAL PE3EARCIH I PROJECT
Summary of Civil Works and Land Acquisition
----1Experiment Station                      Degree of Construction  ?iequired-----
Typ e        Nuxnber of Sites        CoTnplete              Partial              Nne
ARC                  3             Petrolina/Juazeiro    Planaltina           Belem
NCC                 8                Goiania              Caripo Grande       Sete Lagoas
Camoina Grande                           Cruz das Almas
Manaus                                  Agua Limpa
Sobral
UEPAEs             14
Type I (10)                        Bacalbal             Teresina            None
Penedo               Caico
Altamira             Goiania
Manaus              Barreiras
Irece               Alagoinha
Type TI (4)                        Cuiaba               Quissama            None
Itapetinga
Caruaru
Total          25                  13                     8                 4
Land Acquisition
Location                           Area to be Purclhased (ha)             Cost-'/ Cr$
IPlanaltina (ARC)                           lQ000                          760,000
Belem (ARC)                                2,500                         1,900,000
',riania (NCC)                                200                          152,000
Agua Limpa (NCC)                            2,000                        1,520,000
Manaus (NCC)                                3,000                        2,280,000
Cruz das Almas (NCC)                          200                          152,000
Manaus (UEPAE)                              3,000                        2,280,000
Goiania (UEPAE)                           _1,200                         _912,0
Total                                 13,100                     C-4 9,956,000
'JS$ 1,11 8,6524g/
1/ Estimated average cost at Cr$ 76000 per ha = US$85.39 per ha.
2/ Is shown as US$1.2 million in cost estimates; both land area and costs per ha
are rough estimates as specific plans for some sites have not yet been finalized.



ANNEX 1;
Tablp 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTTRAL RESEARCH T PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimates
Agricultural Research Center, Petrolina
Cr$         ITS$
1. Construction costs 1/
Cent,ral facilities including labs   1,832 m  @ Cr$ 2,000/m2    3,664,00(           125,000
Field service buildings                ?,793 m 9 @      Ir$ 1,900/rm  5,288 000     615 000
T',t o000o  1,041,000
9,  Site works                                                           1,343.000       156,000
10,295,000   1,197,000
a.  Provincial cost vari.ation (-8%)                                       8J4,o0o       96,000
11,119,000   1,293,000
14.  Design contingency (1O%)                                            1,112,000       129,000
12,931,000   I .1.P2,000
K   Construction contingency (10%,                                       1,223,000       1 !42,^)
1 3 !540      1,56410oon
6.  Professional fees (6%)                                                 R07, 000       94,000
i&.9161 070   1,61;H.00
7.  Site sunervision                                                       1 0,.nno       1 ,000
1t 1   nnn   1 677,n00
P.  Furniture                                                               350,000          Oo1.000
14,771,000   1,718,nno
9.  Laboratory equipment, 2/                                             2 030000        236.000
6,T*0,noo   l,cliooo
F 3scaiat,ion 3/   1976 (14%)                                            2,352,000       273,00(
1Q, 153,000   9,227,000
1977 (1/2 year. 6%)                                1,14).onn      134 000
TOTA.L           20,302,000   v9.0361 00
tJ  (a)  Cost basis, Rio d.e Janeiro, November 1975.
(b) The cost of road works. dra-inage and irrigqtion. boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance  'or farm development.
2/  Assump+ion of C-$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
31  Conventional allowance used by Bank.
December 1, 197<



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 2
BRAZIL
ArRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Es.timate (Contd.)
Agricultural Research renteT', Planaltina - Additions to acisting Buildings
Cr$          03$
1   Construction costs 1/
Central facilities includirg labs   1,584o m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/mr           3,168,000       368,000
Field service buildings                1,280 m2 @ Cr$ 1,90/r42 2,432 0oo               283,000
5,60M0          651, 0o
2.  Site works                                                                840,0)00      98.000
6,L1;Y.l,000   T    o9,000
3.  Provincial, cost variation (+3%)                                          193,000       22,000
6,633,000      771,000
1h.  Design conting.encv (10%)                                                663,)00       77,000
7,206,0 ooIj,oOn
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                            730 ( 0,000
..02 ,00       933,000
6   Professional fees (6%)                                                    482 ,000      56,ooo
8,508,noo      g    )989,000
7.  Site sunervision                                                          160,000       19.000
8,8re , f)oo   1 , o7n , o
R,.  )irniture (additional)                                                   260,000       30,000
,92 ,000       0
Q.  Laboratory equipment (additional) 2/                                    1,?,000        210,000
10,730,000   1 ,24h,000
10.  Escala+ion 3/   1976 (1j%)                                              1,502, 000     175,onn
1 .1723,0
1977 (1/2 year, 6%)                                     73!.,000      85 000
TOTAL           ,966,000
1, (a) Ccst basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b) The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaning is ca-ried under the aMlowanne for f?rm level on-nt.
?/  Ansumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laborat-ory station.
V/ Conventional allowance used by Bank.
December 1  107w



ANIEX 15
Table 1
Page 3
BRAZTL
AGRICULTURAL RESEURCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
National Center for Rice and Beans, Goiania
Cr$         IJS$
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   2,o56 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/m2         4,112,000     478,000
Field service buildings              2,915 m2 @ cr$ 1,coo M/2      5$53OOOO       644hooo
9,650,000   1,122,000
2.  Site .crks                                   2           2          1 447,000      168,000
Drh-ing floors                         100 m  @ Cr$ 81/m_ 81,000                     9,000
1 17 T 000   1,299,000
3.  Provincial cost variation (-3%)                                      -335,000      -39,000
10 8 43  000   1 ,260,000
4. Design contingency (1C)                                             1,084,000      126 000
11,927,000   1 386,000
5.  Construction contingency (10,0)                                     1,193,0CO      139.000
13,120,000   1T52500
6.  Professional fees (6%O)                                               787,000       92,000
13,907,000   1,617,000
7.  Site superrision                                                      160,000       19,000
143067,000   1 3636,00C
8.  Furniture                                                             380,000      l4,O00
1 ,W47,000   1 ,6Poo000
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                             2 100, 000     24,o000
~~~~~~ ~~~~~16,547,OOC   1,n9?4,000
10.  Escalation 3/   1976 (14do)                                         2,317,000      269,0Cc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC   1 - E4, 0-0 0 2,1s3,000
1977(1/2 year, 6%)                                 1,132 000      132 OC0
TOTAL         19,996,000   2,325 000
1/ (a) Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary, fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Assumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
3/ Conventional allowance used by Bank.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 1I
Table 1
Page 6
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH T PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
National Center for Cotton, Campina Grande
cr _!       TTQct
1.  Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   2,070 m2 4 cr$ 2onn/mr            4, 1 40, 000  L,81,00n
Field service buildings               3,250 m' '9 Cr$ 1.9n2          6,175,000      718 000
10,315n000   1,1Q9.000
9.  Site works                                                            1,56L7,000     1P0.000
Drying floors                           500 m2 @ Cr$  l/rn2             40,000        5,000
11,902,000   1-OM4,000
3.  Provincial cost. variation (+1%)                                        119,000       14,000
12,0X1,000   1,398,000
6.  Design contingency (10%)                                              1,202o000      139,000
13,223.000   1,537,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                        1,322,000      154.000
16.545,000   1,691.nnn
P. Professionas  fees (6%)                                                  873,000      102,000
1      oT.nno   1,793,0n0
7.  Site si'merv, sion                                                      160,000       18 000
19,5778,000   1~i  ,0O0
2*  Fl,rni+ure                                                              350 000       41,2000
15,Q28,00o   T-,2 C!20OO
9.  Labora+t,r7 equinment 2/                                              2,100,000      266 000
1  02 o00o   20,000
t1.  Escalation 3/   1076 (1I)j                                            2,5?2,000      ?9L.000
o0,52,o000   2,390,000
1977 (1/2 year, 6%)                                 1 233 000      163 000
TOTAL           2            ~ 0C1,7R5,00
1/  (a)  r-)st hasFi, Rio ie *Ja.neiro. lT_vanber 1Q75.
(b!  The cost. of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing anld land
reshaning is carried under the allowance for farTn develonment,
A. Acsiirintior of Cr-  7n,r,On per 1aborato-'v sta5t -ion.
( r-ventocal allowance iised bv Bank.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 5
BRAZin.
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
National Center for Rubber, Manuas
Cr$        US$
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   2,288 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/m2    4,576,JOO    532,000
Field service buildings                                           5 350 000    622 000
9,926,000  1,154,000
2.  Site works                                                         1 489 000    173,000
11,415,000  1,327,000
3.  Provincial cost variation (+28%)                                   3 196 ,000    372 000
14,611,ooo   1,699,ooo
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                           1 ,461 ,000    170,000
16,072,000  1,69,OOO
5.  Construction contingency (10p)                                     I'6uY 00u    107'000
17,679,0o r   2,06,000
6.  Professional fees (6)                                              1 061 000    123,000
1c,'740,000  2,179,000
7. Site supervision                                                      160,000      19 000
1c,900,000  2,198,000
8.  Furniture                                                             400,000     46 000
19,300,000  2,24,000
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                            3,010,000    350,000
22,310,900  2,594,000
10.  Escalation 3/    1976 ;14%)                                        3 123000    363,000
-25,433,000  2,957,000
1976 (1/2 year, 6%)                              1,526,000    178,000
TOTAL             0000   315o
1/  (a)  Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b) The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and
land reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Assumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
3/  Conventional allowance used by Bank.
Deceiber 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Dage 6
ERAZIL
AG-UCULTURAL RESEARCH I PiGJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
National Center for Beef Cattle, Campo Grande
Cr$        US$
1.  Const,ructicn costs 1/
Additions tc exist,ing buildings   565 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/2         1,130,000   131,000
2.  Site work.s                                                       169,000    20 000
1 ,299,000   151,000
3.  Provincial cost variation ( +1O)                                   13,COO}     2 000
1,312,000
i4.  Design contingency (lCd')                                        1310CC    15,000
Desi0013     15,000
5'.  Construction contingency (1C,)                                   1L4L 000    17,000
1rE7I,000   1`5,000
6.  Professional fees (6O) o9 000    11 ,000
1,oC2,C^    196.000
7.  Site suoervision                                                               9 000
762 CC,   205 000
:hf m. rnitu re                                                    56 COO      6,000
1 ,81  ,OCQ  1 12,000
9.  Escalation 2/'  1970' ('<,)                                        255,G000    30,000
TOTAI              2,C0'.30CC
1/  (a)  Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, Novembrer 197'5.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boumdary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Conventional alloowance used by Bank.
Decemnt:er 1. 1975



ANNEX 15
Table I
Page 7
BRAZIL
AGPCIULTURAL RESEARCH I PFP)JECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
National Center for Sheep and Goats, Sobral
Cr$         US$
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   2,452 mn2 @ Cr$ 2,000/mi2     4,904,000      570,000
Field service buildings                                           2,424,000      282 000
7,328,C00     852,000
2. Site works                                                         1 099 GOO      128 ,000
o;427;000     980,000
3. Provincial cost variation (+5%)                                      421,000       49,ooo
8,845,0Q0    1,029,000
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                            885,C00      103,000
9,733,000   1,132,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                      973,000      113 000
10,706,000   1,245,000
6. Professional fees (6%)                                               642 000       75,000
1T3480oo(   1,320,000
7.  Site supervision                                                    160,000       18,000
11,508,000   1,330,000
8. Furniture                                                             370,000      43 000
11,875,000   1,381,000
9. Laboratory equipment 2/                                             2,100,000     2   04400
1 3,97E ,000   1,25,000
10. Escalation 3/   1976 (14%)                                          1,957,000     228 ,000
15,935,000   1,853,000
1977 (1/2 year, 6%)                                 956,000     111 000
TOTAL              69 ,COO4,oo
1/ (a) Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b) The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Assuimption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
3/  Conventional allowance used by Bank.
T)erember 1, 1 Q 7,



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 8
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
Five UEPAEs: Type 1 - New Construction at Bacabal, Penedo, Irece, Altamira, Manaus
Cr$         US$
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   4,920 m2 Q Cr$ 2,000/mr2    9,840,000   1,144,000
Field service buildings               3,800 m2 g Cr$ 1,900/n2    7,220,000        840o000
17,060,000   1,9b43000
2.  Site works                                                          2,559,000      297,000
19,619,000   2,281,000
3.  Provincial cost variation (+17.5'%)                                 3 433 000      309,000
23,052,00    2,6d3,000
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                            2,305,000      268 ,000
25,357,000   2,94b,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                        254,000       30,000
25,611,000   2,978,000
6.  Professional fees (6%)                                              1,537,000      179,000
27,148,000   3,157,000
7.  Site sunervision                                                      500,000       58,000
27,648,000   3,215,000
8.  Furniture                                                             675,000       78,000
28,323,000   3,293,000
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                             3,500,000      407,000
-~ _                                        31,823,000   3,700,000
1C.  Escalation 3/   1976 (1iS)                                          4,455,000      518,000
36,278,000   4,218,000
1977 (1/2 year, 65,)1,088,000                                    127,000
TCTAL         37,366,00N   4,345,000
1/  (a)  Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1C'75.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary, fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Assumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
3/ Conventional allowance used by Bank.
Decemiber 1, 1975



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 9
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
Five UEPAEs:  Type 1 - Additions at Teresina, Caico, Goiania. Barreiras  Alazoinha
C 7         TT(Zt
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   2,465 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000 m        4,930,000      573,000
2.  Site works                                                          739,000       86,ooo
5,669,000     65s9,000
3.  Provincial cost variation (avg. +6.5%)                              368,000       43,oo0
6,037,000     702,000
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                            60h 000       70,000
-7,7,000       772,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                      664,ooo       77,000
7,305,000     849,000
6.  Prcfessional fees (6%)                                              438,o000      51,000
7,743,000     900,000
7.  Site supervision (5 sites)                                          40,000       47,000
8,143,000     947,000
8.  Furniture                                                           305 000       35,000
e 44R j OoT    982,000
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                           3 500 000      407,000
l1,948,000   1,339,000
10.  Escalation 3/   1976 (14%)                                        1 ,673,ooo     195,000
TOTAL          1362 1,00O  1.584,000
1/ (a) Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/ Assumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory station.
3/ Conventional allowance used by Bank.
December 1, 1975



ANNEX 1_
Table 1
Page 10
BRhZIL
AGRICUTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimate (Contd.)
Three UEPAEs: Type 2 - New Construction at Cuiaba, Itapetinga
Crv         US;
1. Construction costs 1/
Central facilities including labs   3,276 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/m2        6,552,000      762,000
Field service buildings              2,544 m2 Q Cr$ 1,900/n2       4 834,ODO      562,000
,3 6, OO   1,324,000
2.  Site works                                                         1.708,000      199,000
13,094,030   1,523,000
3.  Provincial cost variation (+11.5%)                                 1 506 ODO      175,000
T1,600, 0   1, 9 ,000
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                           1,4660,000     170 000
16,1060,000   1,868,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%)                                     1 606 000      187,000
17,666,00C   2,o55,000
6.  Professional fees (6%)                                             1,060,00o      123,000
1 o,726,000   2,178,000
7.  Site supervision                                                     30C,000       34,000
79,02b,000   2,212,000
8.  Furniture                                                            453,000       53,00C
19,479,000   2,265,000
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                            4,200,000      4B88000
23,679,000   2,753,000
10.  Escalation 3/   1976 (14%)                                         3,31g,coo      386,ooo
26,994,000   3,139,000
1977 (1/2 year, 3%)                                 810,000       94,000
TOTAL          27,oO4,000   3.233,000
1/ (a) Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1975.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allorance for farm development.
2/ Assumption of Cr$ 70,000 per laboratory animal.
3/ Conventional allowance used by Bank.
De re er 1 ,  7 5



A.S' 15-
Table 1
Hage l'
BRAZIL
AGLi(,ULTU. ZAL RESE;ARMC  I P -TQJECT
Civil Wiorks Cost Estimate (Contd.)
One UEPAE:  Type 2 - Additions at Quissama
Cr$        US$
1.Constructioncot   ,
New labor, crop production offices,                           2
library and conference rooms            904 m2 @ Cr$ 2,000/m        1,808,000   210,0-C
2.  Site works                                                            271,000    32 0)0
2,079,000   242,00
3. Provincial cost variation (+17%)                                       353000    41, 000
2,432,000   2 c3,000
4.  Design contingency (10%)                                              243,000    28,000
2,675,003   311,000
5.  Construction contingency (10%0)                                       267,00O    31,0CO
2,942,OCO    342,000
6.  Professional fees (6%)                                                177,000    21,000
3,119,0C0   363,000
7.  Site supervision                                                       80,000      9,000
3,199,000   3s7,000
8.  Furniture                                                             127,000    15 00C
_,39C26,,0    r 70oo
9.  Laboratory equipment 2/                                             ie4c COo   1A o00c
4 ,7,  00C   50, 00C
10.  Escalation 3/   1976 (1L%)                                            660,oo0    77,00C
TCTAL            l          ,COC    327,C0
1/  (a)  Cost basis, Rio de Janeiro, November 1575.
(b)  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
2/  Assumption of Cr; 70,000 per lab station.
3/  Conventional allowance used by Bank.
Decepler 1, 1975






BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Schedule of Civil WVorks Implementetion
CALENDAR YEAR                       1975               1976                            1977                           1978
FINANCIAL YEAR                                  1976                   1977                            1978                       1979
QUAHTCRS2                                    3       4               2       3       4              2       3       4       1       23
APPOINTMENT OF ARCHITECTS
ESTABLISH TECH. SUPPORT UNIT 
SITE AND SURVEYS
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS               ~:                    .                                          .,
NATIONAL COMMODITY-CENTERS____.                                                        -  ... .
World Bank--15991






ANNEX 16
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Project Costs and Disbursements
1.        In order to provide basic information necessary for monitoring
and evaluation of the research programs (Annex 17), costs have been distri-
buted according to commodity and farming systems research programs (Table 1).
A proposed calendar of procurement and disbursement, for calendar years
1976-1980, is given in Tables 2 and 3. The phasing for establishment cost
items is shown in Table 4. Since budgets for the state experiment stations
(UEPAEs) will be a function of the contribution to research programs allocated
by each station, the project costs attributable to each have been calculated
for the 14 stations under the project. These cost distributions, for each
type of UEPAE, are shown in Tables 5 to 10.
Capital Inputs
2.        Year 1 (FY1977) expenditures are expected to include land purchase,
development studies and costs of the technical support unit. Design and
preparation of building plans would be concluded in late FY1977 and construc-
tion would commence, for the UEPAEs, in the third quarter of FY1977 and
continue until the fourth quarter of FY1978. Purchase of equipment, commis-
sioning of facilities, research and field laboratories, library and informa-
tion services would take place in the second quarter of FY1978 for UEPAEs and
the fourth quarter of FY1978 for ARCs and NCCs (see Civil Works Schedule,
Annex 15, Chart 1). Based on the above, the disbursement schedule for these
components was calculated as follows: FY1976 - 1%; FY1977 - 20%; FY1978 - 55%,
and FY1979 - 24%.
Technical Services
3.        Consultants.  It was assumed that 14.5 man-years of consultancy ser-
vices would be required in the first year of operation, 24 man-years during
project years 2 through 4; and 14 man-years during the last year of project
execution.
4.        Fellowships.  The appropriate phasing for this component is pro-
vided in Annex 17, Table 6. The training program for Ph.D. and +M.Sc. fellow-
ships will be phased as follows: year 1 - 25%; year 2 - 30%; year 3 - 25%;
year 4 - 12%; and year 5 - 8%. Since it is expected that short-courses for
in-service training would be later in starting, they have been distributed
accordingly throughout the implementation period.
Establishment Costs
5.        Incremental salaries would be phased in over the five-year project
execution period as follows:  calendar year 1976 - US$3 million; 1977 - US$4.6



ANNEX 16
Page  2
million; 1978 - US$7.2 million; 1979 - US$8.2 million; and 1980 - US$10.1
million. Other incremental operating expenses would show a similar pattern
as they are directly related to the estimated staff development plan. It
is calculated that other operating expenses would amount to 30% of salaries
in the first two years and to 40% of salaries in the following three years
(Table 4).
December 15, 1975



BRAZTL
AGRICUTLCT'UAL RESEARCH I  1 RO0JEC
Projoet Cost and D-sb-r: o--not
Total Pro j(t Coot orr-ras g
(US$000)
ARC            ARC
Matize/                                                       Beef         Dairy          Sheep/      Seni-Arid         Campos          ARC                 ?/
Rin          Bearns        Sogh-n          Caavaaa        Cotton         Sabb-r          Cattle       Cattle         Goats            Z-.Zn       CerrQados    Ao,aazaia          TataI
____________________________________________   - _____-               (Petro   eal   (Planaltina)     (BelemL)
S-eonlnner-t Cant
Ofloft korks                                  1 P'73         1,702          1,394            483          2,363          1 69')           475           322          1,189          1,293           771              -          12,964
,'rofesnior:sal Fern for Cioil *;rkn              -              -               -              -              -              -              -            -                             -             -                          1,810
Land Pnrohase                                   153             -,4              -             23              -           348               -          232               -              -           70            290           1,150
Laboratory Eqaipment                            298            4'.5            381            132            509            350             88           88             286           236           209               -          2,992
F-rnit-re                                        44              38            47              16            74             45              17           11             48             41            30               -            432
Researeh Earn Developnent                        50             50            100            100            100             100            100          100            105            100              -           100           1 ,00
Farm Equipnent                                  256            360            438             217           334             IC)            178          178             139            IOO          100            100           2,500
Vehiclen                                        291            394            597            347            481             215            303          303            259            215           215            215           3,835
Library Docunantation and
lnfonmatiin  Ser-vi-e                           213            305            449            254            357             150-           219          219            184            150           150            150           2,800
S,b-tocal                                2,578          3,318          3,406          1,572          4,218          3,0v8           1,380        1.453          2,205          2,135         1,545             855         29,483
Teohei-al Serviven
Reso,arh Speoialints                            412.5          412.5          712.5          937.5           787.5          8t2.5          412.5        412.5           712.5       1,162.5         337.5           375          7,537.5
Feliowships - long term                         596.5          552.5          688.5          489.5           688.5          7'1            843.5         688.5          776            753           703.5          765          8,336
ahort term                      105             98            126            105            105            1'0            126            70             70            105           105            105           1,260  2/
-otside project                           -              -                      -              -              -              -             -              -              -             -              -          6,280,5
Sob-total                                1,114          1,063           1,527         1,532           1,581          1,793.5        1,382        1,171           1,558.5        2,020.5      1,146           1,245          23,414
Eitabtiih.ent CaLnt                           5,292.5        4,64           5,672.1        6,976.5       10,022.5        6,566.3       12,643         6,655.5        9,845.5       11,126         3,756          8,334.5        91,755
BASl  COST                                    8,984.5        9,245         10,605.5       10,080.5       15,821.5       11,3o,8        15,405         9,279.5       13,309         15,281.5       6,447         10,434.5       144,652
Phiysioal Coatingenov
Cioil Wrtks (203)                               255            340            279              97           473             3,o             95            64            238            259           154              -          2,594
Prcfessional Fees (20%)                            -              -              -              -              -              -              -             -              _              -             -              -             362
All other (5%)                                  386             443            461            480            673            433            747           448            621            699           284            522           6,494
Sab-total - constant US$                 9,625.5       10,028         11,345.5        10,657.5       16,967.5       12,191         16,247         9,791.5       14,466         16,239.5       6,885         10,956.5       154,102
Pronision far prioe
,n-reas-n - current                                                                                                                                                                                                         35_324
Total - current US$                                                                                                                                                                                                        189.426
1/  Details al thr  costs tor the vartios  -omponeats a,. gisen in the tont tables attacled to each prFgran  (A-noos 3-14  inclosive)                                                                                                           5|
2/  profennic Il fees ftr cioil works and fellu nbhi ps outnide the prajert programs wore not attributed  to ithe  n-diidual programs.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RES3ARCH I PROJECT
Project Cost and Disbursement
Provision for Expected Price Increase
Calendar Years
1976     1977       1978      179         3980      Total
----------       ---- 7$uss 0007 ------______________
Base Cost Including
Physical Contingencies
Civil Works                       1,350   13,855      2,524         -           -     17,729
land Purchase                     1,208      -          -           -           -      1,208
laboratory Equipment
and Furniture                      -     1,728      1,867         _           -      3,595
Research Farm Development           525       525       _     -                 -      1,050
Farm Equipment                    1,050    1,575        -           -           -      2,625
Vehicles                            840    1,260      1,260        667          -      4,027
Library Documentation and
Information Services               630      630        630        630         420     2,940
Technical Services                3,150    6,300      6,300      6,300      2,534    24,584
Establishment Costs              11,010   16,516    19,269    22,022        27,526    96,343
Subtotal                   19,763   42,389    31,850    29,619        30,480   154,101
E-xectcd Price Inncr^as^s    -------------------urrent US$t  --               -
Civil Works
Annual                             14%       12%       10%          -           -
Increase factor for over
December 1975 US$ base cost  1.07       1.21       1.34           -
Current US$ increase               94     2,910       858           _           _      3,862
Farm Equipment and other
Capital Inputs
Annual %                           10%        8%        8%           8%          7%
Increase factor over
December 1975 US$ base cost  1.05       1.14       1.24         1.33         1.43
Current US$ increase              152       5'9       706          416          181    2,014
Technical Services and
Establishment Costs
Annual                              9%        8%         7%           7%          7%
Increase factor over
December 1975 Us$ base cost  1.045    1.13         1.22         1.30        1.39
Current U$ increase                637   2,966      5,625        8,497      11,723   29,448
Subtotal                     883   6,435       7,189       8,913       11,904   35,324
TOTAL                20,646  48,824    39,039        38,532       42,384  189,425
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 16
Table 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(us$' ooo)
Quarter  Disbursement During   Cummulative Amount
Bank Fiscal Year   Ending         Quarter                Disbursed         Balance of Loan
I/                                4o0000
1976         June 30            300                      300             39,000
1977         Sept.30            880 1                  1,180             38,820
Dec. 31          1,300                   2,480             37,520
Mar. 31          1,600                   4,o80             55,920
June 30          1,400                   5,480             34,520
1978         Sept.30          1,500                   6,980              33,020
Dec. 31          2,100                   9,080             30,920
Mar. 31          2,200                  11,280             28,720
June 30          2,400                  13,68o             26,320
1979         Sept.30          2,900                   16,580             23,420
Dec. 51          3,600                  20,180             19,820
Mar. 31          2,800                  22,980             17,020
June 30          2,600                  25,580             14,420
1980         Sept.30          2,150                   27,730             12,270
Dec. 31          2,400                  30,130              9,870
Mar. 31          2,700                  32,830              7,170
June 30          2,200                  35,030              4,970
1981         Sept.30          1,800                   36,830              3,170
Dec. 31          1,300                  38,130              1,870
Mar. ,           1,100                  39,230                770
June 30            770                  40,000                  0
1/  Includes US$500,000 of retroactive financing for expenditures incurred before
loan effectiveness.
December 7, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Establishment Cost Calculation
A)  iALARIS_-_                             Technical Staff                             Administrative! Staff                 Labor          Total           B)  OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES-'
Senior         Jurior        Technical       Senior          Junio-       Clerical
Scientist      Scientist       Support
(tlS$23,000)   (US$15,500)    (US$13,500)    (US$27,000)  (US$16,500)   (US$5,500)        (US$2,000)
x              x              x             x               x             x              x
1980 - Number of Staff               112            399            698            12              73           500           1556
(103%,)
(10n)                                                      ontat  5$Constant US$
----------------------------------------------  Constant US$ ----------------------------------------------                                          Cntn   S
1980 - 100%  Salary Cost        2,576,000       6,184,500      9,423,000      324,000       1,204,500       2,750,000      3,112,000      25,574,000        1980 = 40% of salaries   10,229,600
1979 -  80%        "            2,060,800      4,947,600       7,538,400      259,200         963,60).      2,200,000      2,489,600      20,459,200        1979 = 40%                  8,183,680
1978 -  70%        "            1,803,200      4,329,150       6,596,100      226,800         843,15-)      1,925,000      2,178,400      17,901,800        1978 = 40%      "           7,160,720
1977 -  60%        "            1,545,600       3,710,700      5,653,800      194,400         722,700       1,650,000      1,867,200      15,344,400        1977 = 30%      "           4,603,880
1976 -  40%        "            1,030,400       2,473,800      3,769,200      129,600         481,80)       1,100,000      1,244,800      10,229,600        1976 = 30%                  3,068,880
TOTAL (1976-80)                 9,016,000    21,645,750    32,980,500   1,134000           4,715,75)       9,625,00C    10,S92,000       89,509. 00        TOTAL - "Other       ,,    33,246,200
3'                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~operatinog 'Expenses"
Current Salaries -                                                                                                                        24,804,000        Current - ""xher n          6,196,200
Incremental Salaries                                                                                                                      64,70.500         Incremental - "Other       27,050,000
Operating Expenses'
1/   Salaries as of January 1976 are calculated from EMBRAPA salary scale.  Salary includes the 28% employer's contribution to social services and a 13th month pay.
2/ "Other Operating Expenses" comprises:
-  Mateials and Supply (40%) - fuel and gasoline (6Z)
- chemicals and replacement for laboratories (8%)
- fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides (18%)
- other (8%)
-  Genecal Operations (60%)   - Utilities (light, power, water)
- Communications
- Travel
- Other
3/  "Current Salaries  and "Current Other Operating Expenses" have been estimated from global EMBRAPA 1975 budget figures per research station.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Distribution of Cost Components of 14 TUEPAEs Among Commodity Research Programs
(us$' o(0)
Number of Research    Factor
Team Working with a      l-X    Civil       Laboratory                                 Library 3/    Farm 4/
Particular Commodity    7'    Works l/   Equipment 1/  Furniture 1/ Vehicles 2/ Documentation Equipment
Total                 (34)           (1.00)   5,363         1,465,          181         1,470           1,150         1,300
Rice                    4             0.12       644          176            22            176            138           156
Beans                   7             0.20    1,073           29-5           36            294            230           260
Maize/Sorghum           9             0.26    1,394           381            47            382            299           338
Cassava                 3             0.09       483          13D            16           132             104           117
Cotton                  6             0.18       965          265            33           266             207           2314
Rubber                          -                -             -             -             -              -             -
Beef Cattle             2             O.0o6      322           88            11            88              69            78
Dairy Cattle            2             o.o6       322           88            11             88             69            78
Sheep/Goats             1             0.03       16o           42             5             44             34            39
1/  See Annex 15, Table 1.
2/ For UEPAE:  two farm trucks (US$22,000), one large bus (US$58,000), one small bus (US$5.00f). and k-ight auitomobiles
us$40,000).
3/  Based on US$82,000 per UEPAE.
4/ Figure provided by EMBRAPA.                                                                                                H
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 16
Tab-Le 6
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURLIAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Overall Costs for a Typical UEPAE 1/
(constant 1976 US$ '000)
Development Costs                                        Center 1/
-uS 
Civil. Works 2/                                          699,200
Land Purchase                                         as necessary
Laboratory Equipment 2/                                   81 ,00
Furniture 2/                                               15,600
Research Farm Development                             as necessary
Farm Eauipment 3/                                         100,000
Vehicles 4/                                               1 0,00O
Library, Documentation and
lnformation Services 5/                                  82,ooo
Technical Services 6/
Research Specialists                                      187,500
Fellowships - long term                                   177,600
Fellowships - short term                                   28,000
Establishment Cost 7/                                  1,968,000
TOTAL                                            3,h4h,300
1/  Costs as shown apply for Bacabal, Penedo, Irece, Altamira and Manaus.
2/  See Annex 19, Table 1.
3/ Assumption: US$100,000 per station.
4/  Two farm trucks (US$22,000), one large 'bus (US$38,000), one small bus
(US$5,000), and eight automobiles (US$1b0,0O0).
5/ Assumption:  US$82,000 per UEPAE.
6/  30% of total consultants' time and fellowships is attributed to the
14 UEPAEs (see Table 8).
7/  See Tacbe 6.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJOCT
Typical Crop/Livestock UEPAE
Technical Servicesl/
Long Term                  Short Term               Unit Cost                     Total
Research Specialists2            Man-years                   Man-years                       7constant 1976 US$)
Scientific Consultants               1.3                        0.8                    75,000                     187,500
Fellowships2/                            No. of Participants
Long Term.
M.Sc. in Brazil (2 years)                         6.6                                   l,6000      72,600
M.Sc. abroad    (2 years)                        1.5                                   26,000       39,000
Ph.D. in Brazil (3 years)                         -                                    16,500         _
Ph.D. abroad    (4 years)                         1.2                                  52,000       62,400
Short Tern                                        4                                     7,000       28,000
Subtotal                                                                                                     202,000
Total                                                                                                   389.g0O
1/ Applies equally to typical crop UEPAE.
2/ Assumption:  30% of consultants' time and 30% of fellowships are attributable to the 14 UEPAEs.
December l5, 1975



BRA ZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Typical Crop/Livestock - UEPAE
A. Staff Development Pattern 1/
B.  Schedule of Establishment Cost 2/
-------------- Project Year  ------ -                 Total
1        2         3         4         5
A. Number of Senior Scientists (Ph.D., M.Sc.)              4         7         8         9       11
Number of Junior Scientists (B.Sc.)                    8        13        15       17        21
_____________________________    _________                     I-------------------------------------------------
B.  Salaries                                             249       374       436      498       623            2,180
Other Operating Expenses                              75       112      174       199       249              809
Establishment Cost of Livestock - UEPAE              324      486       610       697       872            2,989
Current Establishment Cost                            50        50       50        50        50              250
Incremental Establishment Cost                       274      436       560       647       822            2,739
------------- (constant in 1976 US$ '000) --------
1/  See Table 7.
2/ For calculation of establ'ishment cost, see Table 3.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Page  1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Background
StaLu,ury base and Objectives
1.        The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EHBRAPA) was
created on December 7, 1972, by Law No. 5.85, as a public institution linked
to the Ministry of Agriculture, but also as a legal entity with administra-
tive and financial autonomy. EMBRAPA began operations on April 26, 1973.
2.        EMBRAPA has taken over the functions of the previous National
Department of Agricultural Research (DNPEA) and is responsible for the
coordination and promotion of agricultural research throughout Brazil. It
will establish coordinated, multi-disciplinary national research programs
involving the EMBRAPA research centers, cooperating universities, and state
and private organizations. The nationwide cooperative system is still in the
formative stage, but it is designed to concentrate etforts ot the cooperating
institutions on problems of national, regional and state or local concern.
Priority emphasis will be placed on development of new technologies to make
the nation's agriculture more efficient and productive.
EMBRAPA Finances
3.        EMBRAPA's total assets, mainly properties and facilities transfer-
red to it after its creation in late 1972, amounted to about Cr$1.4 billion
(or roughly US$185 million) as of December 31, 1974. Although it has the
legal status of a public company rather than government department, EfBRAPA
is almost totally dependent upon government budget allocations or government
secured borrowing to finance its operations. EMBRAPA's annual and tri-annual
budgets are subject to government approval as part of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture budgets. In 1974, EMBRAPA's total expenditures were Cr$181.9 million (in
1975 prices, or roughly US$21 million), of which about 4% represented invest-
ments in new facilities, 53% personnel costs, and the remaining 43% materials,
rents, utilities and other miscellaneous expenses, sub-contracts and transfers
(see Table 1). Roughly 72% of EMBRAPA's funding in 1974 came directly
from the Federal Treasury (including allocations from the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's general budget -- partly representing domestic loans -- PROTERRA,
1/ PIN 2/ and other federal funds); approximately another 18% represented
1/   Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a Agro-Industria de
Norte e do Nordeste (Program for the Redistribution of Land and Stimula-
tion of Agro-Business in the North and Northeast).
2/   Programa da Integracao Nacional (National Integration Program).



ANNEX 17
Page  2
transfers from special contracts between EMBRAPA and other Brazilian entities
(e.g., SUDENE, BNB, other agencies linked with the Ministry of Agriculture);
about 4% from a USAID loan (see paragraph 6 below); and the remainder from
miscellaneous sources and sales of services and agricultural produce.
4.        EMBRAPA's approved 1975 budget amounted to Cr$495.5 million (or
roughly US$58 million), about triple the 1974 budget. The programmed expendi-
tures of EMBRAPA in 1975 represented about 12.5% of the total programmed
expenditures of the Ministry of Agriculture and its related agencies. The 1975
EMBRAPA program included a very substantial increase in EMBRAPA investments,
reflecting partly the fact that EMBRAPA's previous two years of activities
were focused mainly on consolidating and reorganizing Brazilian agricultural
research rather than on intensifying or expanding it.
Projections for 1976-78 Program
5.        The preliminary budget requests made by EMBRAPA to the Ministry
of Agriculture for the 1976-78 period assume a continued rapid growth in
the total EMBRAPA program. Total expenditures would be about US$82 million
in 1976 and US$98 million in 1977 and would reach US$137 million in 1978.
The composition of expenditures will shift with the expansion of Brazil's
research efforts and, by 1978, the share of fixed investments in total EMBRAPA
expenditures would reach almost 32%. While the regional distribution of the
EMBRAPA program is not yet defined (since, indeed, the projects for some
commodities and regions are still under preparation), preliminary estimates
indicate that roughly half of its program over the medium term will be directed
specifically to the Northeast, North and Central-West regions (with almost
half of that in the Northeast).
6.        Over the next several years, the government hopes to finance a
larger share of the EMBRAPA program with foreign borrowings or assistance
than it has in the past. In 1972, before EMBRAPA was created, USAID made a
US$11.93 million loan to the Government for agricultural research. The loan
covered technical assistance, equipment and training and is expected to be
fully committed in about a year. UNDP has also funded various projects in the
agriculture sector in Brazil, one of which focuses on livestock-related re-
search in the Northeast. EMBRAPA has responsibility for the project, which
was begun in 1971 and which is now working mainly on pasture research. EMBRAPA
is also receiving various special technical assistance or equipment grants
from several countries, including the United States, France, Japan, Germany,
and England. Most are linked to the provision of several specialists or items
of equipment for individual research stations. It is also negotiating similar
technical assistance and exchange agreements with several other countries as
well. In general, these bilateral agreements can be expected to help provide
EMBRAPA with valuable technical assistance, but they are not likely to meet
a significant portion of EMBRAPA's substantial overall financing requirements.
The proposed Bank loan has been designed to complement the various bilateral
efforts. In addition to the proposed Bank loan for the research programs in
the Northeast, Amazonia and Cerrados, the Brazilians hope to negotiate finan-
cing from IDB for research programs now being prepared for five or six cereal
crops for the Center-south and South.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
B. Research Program Structure
7.        The project would strengthen agricultural research in three main
agro-ecological regions of tropical Brazil: in the semi-arid Northeast, the
humid North (Amazonia) and the intermediate savanna (Campos Cerrados), Central-
West. Priority is to be given to the Northeast, the poorest area of the country,
but work would also be initiated in the Central-West and North regions to esta-
blish the base for an expanded second-phase project. The research would encom-
pass the following program areas:
(a) The development of improved farming systems, including
materials and practices, for the soils and climatic
conditions in the three agro-ecological regions, with
headquarters location for each program, as follows:
Agricultural Research Center for the Semi-Arid Tropics:
at Petrolina, state of Pernambuco, and Juazeiro, state
of Bahia.
Agricultural Research Center for the Humid Tropics:
at Belem, state of Para.
Agricultural Research Center for the Intermediate Savanna
Tropics (Campos Cerrados) Region: at Planaltina, Brasilia,
Federal District.
(b) The development of nationally coordinated commodity research
programs for the improvement of crop and livestock production,
with headquarters location for each program, as follows:
National Research Center for Maize and Sorghum:  at Sete Lagoas,
state of Minas Gerais.
National Research Center for Cotton: at Campina Grande, state
of Paraiba.
National Research Center for Cassava: at Cruz das Almas, state
of Bahia.
National Research Center for Rice and Beans: at Goiania, state
of Goias.
National Research Center for Rubber: at Manaus, state of Ama-
zonas.
National Research Center for Beef Cattle: at Campo Grande,
state of Mato Grosso.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
National Research Center for Dairy Cattle: at Agua Limpa,
state of Minas Gerais.
National Research Center for Sheep and Goats: at Sobral, state
of Ceara.
(c) The strengthening of research at the state level. The 14 research
units at the state level (UEPAEs) included in the project would
conduct adaptive research on improvement of farming systems for
the regions in which they are located.  This would involve colla-
boration with the research programs of the three main agro-ecolo-
gical regions, as appropriate, and participation in the coopera-
tive national commodity research programs to fit available new
technology into the farming potentials of the areas served by the
UEPAE. The UEPAEs would each concentrate attention on a number
of commodities or program areas, as shown in Table 2. Details
as to the staffing of the UEPAEs, are given in Tables 3 and 4.
(d) The development of contract and other collaborative research.
Support would be provided by EMBRAPA for research on problems
of priority concern in agricultural development, as identified
by EMBRAPA, but jointly planned with the unversity or other
institution which would conduct the research under contract or
cooperative agrA eement.
8.        The research station network comprised of EMBRAPA centers and
collaborating institutions would be different for each commodity and
farming system research program and is presented in the respective annex.
The organization chart for EMBRAPA is presented in Chart 1. The president
and three directors furnish executive leadership.
C. Research Program Management
Planning
9.        The leaders of EMBRAPA have given considerable attention to research
program planning and formulation, this being a most critical factor in the
success of EMBRAPA in achieving its objectives, since planning affects not
only what research is done, but when, how, by whom, and how well it is done.
However, the planning of national multi-disciplinary, problem-oriented re-
search programs in the various commodity and problem areas, involving the
integrated efforts of a substantial number of collaborating institutions,
can become a cumbersome, time-consuming process that dissipates excessive
research staff time and other resources, unless the planning procedures are
kept simple and precise.



ANNFX 17
Page  5
10.       National agricultural research programs would support the objectives
and goals of the government with respect to agricultural development, as set
forth in the National Development Plan. The National Committee for Agricul-
tural Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (COMPATER) would
serve as the Technical Advisory Council to EMBRAPA to ensure continuing
awareness of national priority requirements.
11.       The EMBRAPA directorate would furnish general policy and procedural
guidance in the formulation of the total research program. EMBRAPA is
developing a Program Planning and Budgeting System, (PPBS) - with clearly
stated identification of the problem, plan of work, leadership and coop-
erating organizations, and the like -- to facilitate research program plan-
ning, review and budgeting. The PPBS would serve to guide the degree of
involvement desirable for the EMBRAPA headquarters in planning and other
management processes. The station, or headquarters center, director would be
responsible for the overall administrative policy of the center and would
represent EMBRAPA in all aspects of community relations.
12.       The specific research programs for the three agricultural regions
and for the commodities in the project would be designed primarily by the
research scientists concerned with the commodity or problem area. The
Associate Director for Research at the headquarters center would function
as the national research program leader/coordinator and would be given major
responsibility for developing the researcih programs, drawing upoli Llae advice
and guidance of the team of senior research scientists in the various disci-
plines from the participating centers or institutions. Annual workshops for
evaluation of progress and for identification of priority needs and opportuni-
ties for modification of the research would permit a high level of research
scientist participation in planning and redirection of research.
13.       Advisory councils are being established for national commodity and
area research programs to assist in identification of priority problems and
needs, in the general planning of the research programs, and in encouraging
more effective dissemination and application of improved technology. The
councils would serve in an advisory capacity and not in a management role.
The membership of the advisory councils would differ somewhat for the various
commodity and problem area programs, but a typical council would include:
(a) one representative, or more, of producers;
(b) a representative of industry;
(c) a representative of the universities;
(d) a representative of EMBRATER;
(e) the national program leader/coordinator; and
(f) a representative of the EMBRAPA Department of Technology
and Science (DTS) and of other EMBRAPA departments as may
be indicated.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
14.       The advisory councils wqould not only keep the research directed
to the practical priority problems of producers and the industry, but would
provide the nucleus of a constituency to demand research and to assist in
obtaining support for it.
Execution
15.       The review of factors involved in strengthening agricultural re-
search in Brazil, leading to the establishment nf FMPRAPA, identified the
importance of national policies that would guarantee the operation of pro-
grams and projects through decentralized execution, and the maximum use of
existing resources in the different parts of the country. The primary re-
sponsibility for carrying out the national commodity and/or area programs
would be vested in the respective national research center. The partici-
pating or collaborating research centers and institutions would also have
a high degree of autonomy in concluding their part of the national research
program, within the framework of the agreed-upon work plans.
16.       The national research program leader/coordinator would be respon-
sible for maintaining liaison with the participating research scientists
and institutions to insure maximum conformity to agreed-upon national re-
search programs.
Coordination
17.       The national research programs of EMBRAPA will require a high de-
gree of integration and collaboration among (a) the different participating
institutions, including universities and private organizations, and (b)
the scientists from different specialized fields that form the multi-disci-
plinary research teams. Interinstitutional collaboration would be facili-
tated by cooperative agreements that define the role and contribution of the
respective organizations.
18.       The national research program leader/coordinator would have the
primary responsibility for coordination of the research, for ensuring that
the participating scientists carry out their part of the agreed-upon work
plan, and for seeing that the activities are conducted within the terms of
agreements between the collaborating institutions. The Program Planning
and Budgeting System (PPBS) would facilitate the management, including
effective coordination, of multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional
research.
Technical Support and Management
19.       The authorities for program and administrative management functions
at EMBRAPA headquarters are dispersed at the present time, with one EMBRAPA
director responsible for technical programs, another for planning and special
projects, and a third for information and documentation, personnel and train-
ing, data processing, and diffusion of technology. These departments are
identified in Chart 1. As the work of the three regional agricultural pro-
grams, the eight commodity research programs, and the related activities of



ANNEX 17
Page  7
the 14 UEPAEs become more fully operational, it will be desirable to
modify the organization and management system. An organizational struc-
ture, as shown in Chart 2, would serve to facilitate the delegation of
line authority and responsibility for technical and administrative manage-
ment. This has been reviewed with the leaders of EMBRAPA. Chart 3 shows
proposed management structure for research programs.
20.       The director at EMBRAPA headquarters who is in charge of the
Department of Technology and Science (DTS) is the principal officer con-
cerned with technical program management. He will be assisted by a staff
of 12 scientists, specialists in the various disciplines concerned in
agricultural research. This will permit effective technical inputs into
the various research programs and good staff level liaison with the re-
search personnel.
Technical Assistance
21.       The development of EMBRAPA into an effectively functioning
national research corporation for agriculture, with well integrated re-
search teams in the different commodities and farming regions and with
continuing compatible' relationships with the collaborating institutions
involved, is a formidable task. The need to give concurrent attention to
development of 25 research stations, to the training of a multi-disci-
plinary staff alnd suppurting personniel, and to activation of productive
research programs offers a challenge few countries have faced.
22.       The project provides for a research program advisor, a research
scientist-administrator of international stature, to work with the leader-
ship of EMBRAPA in development of policies, procedures, and the organiza-
tion and management structure required for an effective national agricul-
tural research system. This research program advisor would be available
for a period of five years (terms of reference are in Appendix 1).
23.       The development of the agricultural research programs in the
three regions, the formation of their multi-disciplinary teams for farming
systems research, and the establishment of linkages for each of the three
regional centers with the appropriate national commodity research programs
will require substantial organization and management competence. The proj-
ect provides for an internationally experienced agricultural research
scientist with competence in this type of research to be available for a
period of three years for each of the three agricultural research centers.
24.       The development of commodity research programs, nationwide in
scope, conducted by multi-disciplinary teams of scientists from different
collaborating institutions, is new to Brazilian agricultural research.
Effective integration and cooperation of scientists from different disci-
plines and of independent institutions is difficult to achieve and even
more difficult to maintain. The project provides for 10 consultants,
experienced in national commodity research programs, each to be available
for a period of three years to assist in setting up the programs (terms of
reference are in Appendix 2).



ANNEX 17
Page 8
25.       The leaders of EMBRAPA have identified a number of specific fields
or disciplines in which scientific competence and/or experience is presently
limited in Brazil. The project would supply specialists on terms of one
year or more as well as on short-term assignments to meet these needs.
Terms of reference for these specialists are given in Appendix 3. A resume
of the technical assistance to be provided to meet the current need is given
in Table 5.
26.       The external consultant support appears to be well considered
with respect to types of specialists, the terms of assignment, and the
number that could be utilized well during the term of the project. The
types of specialists to be provided could be revised during project imple-
mentation, however, as experience will identify specific needs.
D. Administrative Management and Services
Line Authority and Responsibility
27.       The linkage of the field research centers to the EMBRAPA program
and administrative leaders, as mentioned previously, should be modified as
the EMBRAPA programs grow. The adoption of an organizational structure such
as that presented in Chart 2 would not only facilitate delegation of respon-
sibilities for research program operations, but would also ensure more exped-
itious handling of administration support and services.
Budgets and Financial Management
28.       The manner in which budgets are developed and funds disbursed has
a direct bearing on research program management. The integrated Program
Planning and Budgeting System of EMBRAPA, with financial requirements deter-
mined on the basis of the respective national commodity or area programs,
would permit sound financial management and also facilitate execution of the
research, with maximum authority and responsibility delegated to the national
program leaders and to the individual research scientists. The planning of
budgets and allocation of funds primarily on the basis of individual research
centers would encourage an excessive degree of station autonomy, which would
contradict the close integration of multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional
programs. Most of the work of EMBRAPA within the projectK would be subject
to budgeting on the national commodity program basis, but with some "station"
budgets to provide for the work at the regional agricultural research centers
and the UEPAEs.
29.       Procedures that permit timely and prompt disbursement of funds are
important in ensuring that experiments with seasonal or other time restraints
are not affected adversely because of delays in obtaining supplies, equipment
or other inputs.



ANNEX 17
Page 9
Staffing
30.       General requirements for scientific and technical personnel have
been estimated by EMBRAPA for the various national research programs. These
projections would be subject to modification as experience in implementing
the research identifies the staffing needs more precisely. Similarly, the
most desirable composition of the scientific staff, with respect to re-
searchers trained through the Ph.D., M.Sc., and B.Sc. degree levels, can
be determined best as EMBPRAPA programs are activated.  Most of the re-
search would be production-oriented, with strong emphasis on applied and
adaptive types of research in the field to develop improved technologies.
Such research requires some highly trained scientists in key positions to
supply conceptual and planning leadership, but with substantial junior and
technical support staff to carry the load of field and laboratory research
work. The ratio of about one Ph.D. to two M.Sc. to four B.Sc. degrees
provides an acceptable staff composition for most of the regional area
and commodity research that would be emphasized under the project.
31.       The staffing patterns, as developed under the project for the
respective national commodity and area research programs and for the
UEPAEs, would furnish both the disciplinary team composition and the
distribution of senior, junior and support staff necessary for effective
research. The staffing for the. UEPAEs is designed to furnish the ongoing
research capability necessary for the farming systems studied for the
respective region and much of the adaptive research and field testing
that would be undertaken as the UEPAE station role in coordinated national
research programs. Some additional specialist staff would be necessary
at certain UEPAEs, or at other cooperating institutions, for in-depth
research on more critical limiting factors for a given commodity. Such
specialist scientists would be provided and funded through the appropriate
national research program.
32.       The leaders of EMBRAPA have arranged for consultation with other
research organizations, including the Agricultural Research Service of the
IJ.S. Department of Agriculture, in developing personnel management practices.
Evaluation and promotion procedures based upon "performance of the man on
the job" are being considered. This is an effective means of managing
scientific personnel in a new organization such as EMBRAPA where substantial
numbers of young scientists with advanced degrees but only limited working
experience in research will be employed over a short span of years.
33.       The recruitment procedures for EMBRAPA scientists should be based
upon the same performance and qualification standards as would be used for
evaluation and promotion. The judgment of research program leaders is
important in selecting the scientific staff for a given program or re-
search center, but procedures should be followed to insure that strong
personal biases do not unduly favor or mitigate against potential candidates.



ANNEX 17
Page  10
Training and Staff Development
34.       The training and staff development program supported under the
project is an ambitious one, but the availability of trained scientists is
a major limiting factor in the implementation of the national research
responsibilities of EMBRAPA. The number of Ph.D. and M.Sc. degree per-
sonnel to be trained provides for the staff required for the research
programs and stations under the project (448) plus an additional number
(338) for other programs of EMBRAPA in the project area. In addition to
the advanced degree training, there will be need for in-service types
of experience and training for technical and other support staff, most
of which could be conducted at research centers in Brazil. For details
of the fellowship program, see Tables 6 and 7.
E. Diffusion and Application of Technology
EMBRATER Responsibilities
35.       In order to improve the rural extension system, the Ministry of
Agriculture has established the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Corporation (EIIBRATER). This organization is still in the
formative stage, but it would work in close collaboration with EMBRAPA
in carrying out activities concerned with farm sector development, in-
cluding the diffusion of improved technology.
EMBRAPA Responsibilities
36.       EMBRAPA has a Department of Diffusion of Technology that provides
the linkage between the various national research programs and EMBRATER and
other organizations concerned with rural development. The National Committee
of Agricultural Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (COMPATER),
would serve as the formal agency to coordinate the functions of EMBRAPA,
EMBRATER, and other organizations with mutual interest in development and
diffusion of improved technology.
37.       The agricultural research centers for the three regions, the
national commodity research program headquarters stations, and the state
research units or UEPAEs under the project, each has staff members who would
be concerned with diffusion of technology. These persons would work with
the research staff in carrying out verification trials for new materials
and practices and with the extension personnel in planning and conducting
field demonstrations with cooperating farmers for promotion and dissemina-
tion of improved technology. They also would assist in the preparation of
appropriate extension bulletins. In addition, the training officers, and/
or extension specialists at the research stations would be directly involved
in the technology diffusion activities.



ANNEX 17
Page 11
The UEPAES
38.       The role of the UEPAEs would be especially significant in linking
the various commodity research programs and extension organizations. The
UEPAEs, functioning at the state level, would provide the outreach for adap-
tive research for relevant commodities, serving as participants in the various
national integrated research programs. They also would conduct research on
farming systems, putting the improved materials and methods together into
packages of practices best suited for improving farming in the region. The
staff of the UEPAEs, including the research workers, would assist in train-
ing the extension personnel concerned with diffusion of technology (see Tables
3 and 4).
F. Linkages with International Programs and Scientists
International Research Institutes
39.       International agricultural research institutes or centers have been
established for many of the commodities under the project. EMBRAPA leaders
are in contact with specialists of the relevant international centers, and
the project provides, through its technical assistance component, support for
scientists from these centers who serve as consultants in the various special-
ized disciplines or in reviewing national integrated research programs. A
list of the international centers most closely concerned with work in agro-
ecological areas and on commodities of interest to the Brazil project is given
in Table 8.
Other National Agricultural Research Systems
40.       In the past decade, a number of countries in Latin America, Asia
and Africa have taken steps to strengthen their national agricultural re-
search capabilities and organizations. The continuous contact of EMBRAPA
program leaders with technical and administrative leaders of these emerging
national programs and systems will be of mutual benefit in fitting organiza-
tion and management practices to evolving, staff and facility capabilities
suited to conditions of developing nations.
Selected External Scientists
41.       The project provides for a wide range of scientific consultants for
short-term as well as long-term assignments in special fields identified by
EMBRAPA leaders as requiring such external assistance. The opportunity to
draw upon worldwide scientific resources for consultation and for formation
of continuing scientific communications linkages should ensure a strong base
of experienced guidance in formulating the various national research programs
of EMBRAPA (terms of reference for the scientific consultants are in Appendix 3).



ANNEX 17
Page  12
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
42.       The administration of EMBRAPA would ensure that appropriate
monitoring and evaluation functions are carried out as indicated below.
All of the five main administrative departments of EMBRAPA, plus the
Technical Support Unit (TSU), would be involved in supplying data under
the criteria indicated; it would be essential that the Department of
Technology and Science (DTS), with the assistance of the Research Pro-
grams Advisor, establish an evaluation unit to be assigned the task of
coordinating the inputs from the TSU and the other departments concerned,
such as (a) Department of Planning and Methods, (b) Department of Informa-
tion and Documentation, (c) Department of Technology Diffusion, (d) Depart-
ment of Data Processing, and (e) Department of Human Resources. Key
indicators, specifying projected goals, would be provided to the appro-
priate department for periodic reporting of results as indicated.
Monitoring
43.       In order to ensure that project implementation meets projected
goals as closely as possible, data on the following key indicators would
be registered, and reported on a quarterly basis to Bank under normal
procedure:
(a) The degree to which professional and administrative
staff levels meet project goals and adequate
space and supply facilities are made available to
comply with level of staffing at each facility.
(b) Review of fellowship and in-service-training programs
to indicate not only numbers of staff participating
but also appropriateness and quality of educational
programs being provided.
(c) Timely programming of technical services such as
program consultants, both long-term and short-term.
(d) Progress of civil works construction at the respective
experiment station sites in accordance with projected
implementation timetables, including early acquisition
of land holdings where necessary.
(e) Equipping of laboratories and field facilities at these
sites to ensure they become operational within specified
projected time limits.
(f) Progress on Research Farm Development.



ANNEX 17
Page 13
(g) Acquisition of necessary farm equipment vehicles
and supplies.
(h) Degree to which library documentation and infor-
mation services are available at the various sites,
consistent with staffing level.
(i) Finally, there should be a direct feedback from the
technical program evaluation unit (under DTS) to
report the extent of progress in the execution of
the approved research program.
Research Program Evaluation
44.       Whereas monitoring is provided to ensure the necessary oversight
for expenditures and physical progress of project implementation, periodic
evaluation of research programs is designed to control the performance of
these projects and to provide the necessary information on which future
program emphasis may be determined, during the planning stage. Of equal
importance to the evaluation process is the choice of criteria used in this
evaluation. In addition, the selected criteria may be weighted to reflect
national and regional priorities and the contribution of the research
program to these development plans-  Unlike the case of monitoring, key
indicators cannot easily be predetermined but rather should be chosen for
each program as they develop. Basic areas for choice of criteria, however,
in the planning state, come from answering questions concerning the follow-
ing broad aspects: technical feasibility, research direction and balance,
timing and impact on yields. During research program execution these
criteria would be modified, reoriented and applied as appropriate in order
to evaluate: significant progress toward program or project goals; degree
of utilization given to national and international sources of relevant data
and research methods; interpretation of experimental data; presentation of
meaningful progress reports; testing and field demonstration of research
results; degree of success achieved in the dissemination and adoption of
new technology by producers; and finally the impact on yields and production.
Program evaluation should be dynamic in addressing the needs of individual
programs and should be so designed as to provide management with information
on the relative value of the research being undertaken and indicate when
programs may be strengthened, and/or reoriented as necessary. Information
obtained would also provide the basis for cost/benefit analysis as desired.
45.       Annual workshops for review of progress, and for redirection of
resources to high priority problem areas, provide for a continuing process
of evaluation and monitoring of research programs. The principal members
of the research team, including representation from the collaborating in-
stitutions, EMBRAPA headquarters representatives, members of the respective
advisory councils, and external scientists as may be indicated, would
participate in the workshops. The national research program/leader coordi-
nator would be responsible for organizing the workshop. In addition to the



ANNEX 17
Page 14
regular workshop type of review, it would be desirable to conduct selected
in-depth reviews, of a total national commodity program, or of the work on
a particularly stubborn disease, pest control, soil management or other
problem. The short-term consultants provided for in the project would be
useful in program evaluation, especially if they have sufficient time in
the field to observe the research under way and follow this with participa-
tion in the program review and planning workshop.
46.       An appropriate, external review of the technical research
programs would be undertaken by a review team, comprised of externally
recruited consultant scientists, during the third to fifth year of
project implementation.
January 15, 1976



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Research Programs Advisor
1.        The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) would re-
quire the services of a research programs advisor for a period of five years
to assist the President of EMBRAPA and his staff in the organization and
management of the research and related programs.
2.        The research programs advisor would be an internationally experienced
agricultural research scientist with proven administrative competence. He
would assist EMBRAPA in strengthening its research programs planning and its
operational and administrative competence. He should have the ability to com-
municate effectively with others, to identify research needs and potentials,
and to organize and assess progress of research programs.
3.        The research programs advisor would assist the leadership of EMBRAPA
in such areas as:
(a) determining the priority needs for research and
designing effective multi-disciplinary, problem-
oriented research programs;
(b) allocating funds, including external support, to
ensure adequate levels of research performance;
(c) planning and improving research station laboratories
and field facilities for multi-disciplinary research
teams;
(d) formulating personnel policies and procedures for
recruitment, appointment and pronotion that will
furnish the professional environment conducive to
productive research;
(e) evaluating progress of research and redirecting
efforts to meet changing priority requirements; and
(f) selecting candidates for fellowship awards and
furnishing guidance in planning individual and
group training programs.



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        The research programs advisor would also directly assist the
leadership of EMBRAPA by advising, as necessary, on such matters as:
(a) achieving effective coordination of the commodity and
other research programs conducted by multi-disciplinary
research teams in national or regional programs involving
collaborating research stations of EMBRAPA, the universities,
the UEPAEs, and other institutions and agencies;
(b) establishing cooperative linkages with the relevant inter-
national agricultural research centers and institutes and
other international and national agricultural research
and educational institutions in the improvement of the
research and development programs of EMBRAPA; and
(c) developing and maintaining close collaboration with the
organizations responsible for making the results and
products of research available to farmers, including
cooperation also with agencies that furnish credit and
other inputs and services to farmers. Special attention
should be given to the provision of improved materials,
methods and inputs to small farmers.
5.        He would assist EMBRAPA in the withdrawal, utilization and monitor-
ing of the proceeds of the Bank loan for construction works, equipment and
technical services and in maintaining mutual understanding of the cooperative
relationship and program objectives among the technical and administrative
officers of EMBRAPA and Bank officials.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants for Agricultural Research
1.        The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) would re-
quire substantial scientific and management capability during the early years
of the project when it would be developing the facilities, staff resources,
and core research activities of three agricultural research centers and eight
national commodity research programs. Since many of the more experienced
Brazilian scientists would be out of the country pursuing advanced studies,
internationally experienced agricultural research scientists, with competence
in the organization and operation of problem-oriented, multi-disciplinary re-
search programs of national scope should therefore be recruited to assist
the directors of the research centers and the national commodity programs.
2.        The agricultural research program consultants would be recruited
directly or through international or bilateral assistance, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to assist in:
(a) identifying the priority problem areas for research
and planning the multi-disciplinary team competence
for the field and laboratory research programs;
(b) determining requirements and setting up priority
schedules, as well as selection procedures for
staff development;
(c) planning field and laboratory facilities, including
equipment, and the schedule for station development;
(d) establishing policies and procedures to achieve
maximum integration of the efforts of scientists
in the multi-disciplinary research teams;
(e) formulating agreements and procedures to achieve
maximum collaboration between the main research
center, sub-centers, UEPAEs, universities and other
research and educational institutions mutually con-
cerned with the national research program;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 2
(f) developing cooperative linkages with relevant inter-
national agricultural research centers and institutes
and with other external international and national
agricultural research and educational institutions; and
(g) achieving effective collaboration with the organizations
responsible for making available to farmers the results
and products of research through mutual planning and
execution of training programs, field trials, and
demonstrations, with special attention to the needs of
small farmers for improved technology, credit, and other
inputs.
3.        Three research program consultants would be employed, one each
for the three agricultural research centers, for a minimum period of three
years. An additional five consultants would be employed, each for a minimum
period of two years, to assist the nine commodity research programs. Assign-
ments would be mutually agreed upon by the leaders of EMBRAPA and the Bank.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Appendix 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Scientific Consultants
1.         The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) would re-
quire guidance and assistance in establishing effective research in the many
component disciplines related to agriculture that must be integrated in the
respective area development and commodity improvement programs. The need
for such assistance from experienced scientists is fully recognized by the
leaders of EMBRAPA and provision is made for them on both short-term and
long-term assignments in the project.
2.         The scientific consultants would be recruited directly, or through
international or bilateral assistance, for priority problem areas or for
integrated multi-disciplinary research programs, on schedules to be deter-
mined by the leaders of EMBRAPA. They would assist in:
(a) determining the specific factors within the respective
disciplines to receive priority research attention and
helping to design appropriate experiments;
(b) identifying basic breeding stocks and other materials as
well as improved methodologies from international sources
needed for pursuing research;
(c) establishing personal contacts and linkages with research
specialists working on similar problems elsewhere in the
world;
(d) conducting critical reviews and evaluations of the research
in specific disciplines and/or programs to guide redirection
of resources to more critical, feasible research efforts;
(e) developing workshops and training programs for accelerating
the training and development of research personnel, including
middle-level technical and support staff; and
(f) planning extended field trials and demonstrations in
cooperation with the organizations responsible for ensuring
effective use of improved technology and other production
inputs at the farm level.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICTTJ[TBRAL RESEARCHI I PROJECT
Overall ES3RAPe Expenditures by General Category
(1975 Or$ miil.ions)
Actual     Estimated       Tentative Plan
1974        1975       1976    1977      1977
Personnel                                         96.6       172.8       300.0  302.8  352.0
Other Operating Expenses                          71.7       124.4       198.6  197.8  319.0
Fixed Investinent (land, buildings,
equipment, animals, etc.)                        6.8        65.4       157.3  268.7  367.7
Transfers, Sub-contracts-/                         5.8        97.2        36.o   50.3    97.0
Debt Amortization                                  1.0         5.3          6.5    17.2    26.0
Unallocated                                         -         30.4           -       -       _
Total                                      181.9       495.5       698.4   836.8  1,161.7
1/ Includes research work contracted to universities, state rcsearch companies, etc.
December 15, 1975



AINEX 17
Table 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Functional Responsibilities of the UEPAEs
Location                             Commodity or Program Area
Bacabal                Rice                 Cotton               Cassava
Teresina               Beans                Maize                Sheep/Goats
Caico                  Cotton               Beans                Sorghum
Alagoinha              Beans                Cotton               Pineapple 1/
Caruaru                Sheep/Goats          Maize/Sorghum        Fruits 1/
Penedo                 Rice                 Maize                Fruits 1/
Quissama               Cassava              Dairy Cattle         Coconut 1/
Irece                  Beans                Cotton              Maize
Itapetinga             Beef Cattle          Dairy Cattle         Sorghum
Barreiras              Beans                Cotton               Alfalfa 1/
Manaus                 Beans                Cassava              Maize
Altamira               Maize/Sorghum        Beans                Black Pepper 1/
Cuiaba                 Beef Cattle          Rice                Maize
Goiania                Maize/Sorghum        Rice                 Soybeans 1/
1/ Products not specifically supported under the project.
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULrURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Staffing List for Typical Crop Research UEPAE
Staffing Level
Personnel                                     Junior        Support      Clerical/Labor
Superintendent                                   1
Agronomist                                       1             2
Plant Breeder                                    1             2
Entomologist                                                   1
Plant Pathologist                                1             1
Soil Scientist                                   1             1
Farming Systems                                  1             2
Seed Production                                  -             1
Farm Manager                                     -             1
Technology Diffusion                             1             2               2
Library and Information                          -             1               2
Administrative Officer                           -             1
Financial                                        -             -               2
Purchasing                                       -             -                2
Personnel                                        -             -                2
Food Services                                    -             -               2
Secretarial                                      -             -               5
Labor                                                                         23
TOTAL                                 T            T3              7
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 4
BRAZIL
AGRTCTJLTTJRAL RESEARCH I P.OJECT
Staffing List for a Typical Crop, Livestock Research UEPAE
Staffing Level
Personnel                                   Junior         Support       Clerical/Labor
Superintendent                                 1              _
Agronomist                                     1              2
Plant Breeder                                  1              2
Entomologist                                   1              1
Plant Pathologist                              1              1
Soil Scientist                                 1              1
Farming Systers                                1              2
Seed Production                                -              I
Weed and Brush Control                         -              1
Range Management                               1              2
Livestock Specialist                           1              2
Animal Nutrition                               -              1
Veterinarian                                   1              1
Farm Manager                                   -              1
Technology Diffusion                           1              2                 2
Library and Information                        -              1                 2
Administrative Officer                          -             1                 2
Financial                                      -              -                 2
Purchasing                                     -              -                 2
Personnel                                       -              -                2
Food Services                                  -              -                 2
Secretarial                                    -              -                 6
Labor                                           -              -               32
TOTAL                              ll             22                52
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 5
Page 1
BRAIT-, IL.
ACR IrCLTURTA. RESEAFCH I PRSiECT
Consultant Services
Long Term      Short Term.
Han-years      Man-years
EPIBRAPA HIEADQJUARTHIS
Research Programs Adviser -
ACRICULTURAL RESEARCCH PROCRAM
Campo Cerrado (Cerrado Region)
Research Program Consultant
APRICULTURA1 RESEARCH PROCRAM
BELEM (Humid Tronics)
Re-search PFrograin Consultant                         3
APRICULTURAL RESEARCH FROCRAPI
PETROLINA (Semi-arid Tropics)
Research Programr Consultant                           3
Dry Land Farming Specialist
Irrigation Farming Specialist                          1                1
Minim.um Tillage Specialist                            1                1
Ecologist Plant Physiologist                           1                1
Other Specialists                                      1                1
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROC(AX   - CASSAVA
2/
Production Agronomist                                  3                1
Plant Breeder                                          1                1
Plant Pathologi st                                     1                1
Engineer - Mechani7ation and Processing                                 1
NATIONAL .T RESELAvRCH FROGRAM - CCYPTCTH
2/
Producti on Agroncm`sst,    3..                                         1
Plant Breeder
Entomologist                                           1                1
Engineer - `Mechani7ation                              '                1



ANNEX 17
Table 5
Page 2
Consultant Services (Contd.)
Long Term       Short Term
Man-years      Man-ears
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM - MAIZE AND SCRGHUM
Plant Breeder - Agronomist, Maize   2/               3               1
Plant Breeder - Agronomist, Sorghuin                 3               1
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROCRAM - RICE AND BEANS
2/
Plant Breeder - Agronomist, Rice T2/                  3              1
Plant Breeder - Agronomist, Beans                    3               1
NATIONAL RESEARCH FROCRAM - RUBBER
.Z/
Production Agronomist                                3               1
Plant Pathologist                                    1               1
Plant Physiologist                                   1               1
Processing Specialist                                1               1
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM - BEEF
~~~~~~~~~~/
Livestock Management Specialist                       3               1
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM - DAIRY
=2/
Livestock Management Specialist                      3               1
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROCRAM - SHEEP AND COATS
r
Livestock Management Specialist                      3               1
Animal Breeder                                        1               1
Veterinarian                                          1               1
V
OTHER SCIENTIFIC CCNSULTANTS - SHORT TERM
Selected specialists for review and evaluation
of programs in field visit and workshops                            5
Support for scientific consultants from
international centers and other institutions                        5
Farm mechanization specialists, for farming
systems involving beans, maize and other crops                      2
Plant physiologists for selected consultation
on priority crop commodity problems                                 1
TOTAL                                     61              39.5
/  Eor calculation purposes distributed among the programs, the five long-term
man-years of the research program adviser were treated as short-term man-years.
2/ Would serve also as consultants to assist with national commodity program
plannin,- ano operations.
December 15, 1975



BRA ZIL
AGRICULTUR9AL THESEARCCH I PROJECT
I. Phasing and Cost of the Fellowship Program 1/ 2/
Il.  Phasing and Cost of Scientific Consultant Services 1/
Year                  Total         Cost
I.  (a) Long-term Fellowships                       1      2      3      4    5    6     liumber    (JS$ '000)
MI.Sc. in Brazil            starting      181     181   180    -    -    -52
(US$5,500 per year)         ongoing      181      362   361   180   -    -       1,08?4       5,962
M.Sc. abroad                starting       61      4o    20    -    -               121
(US-13,000 per year)        ongoing       61      101    60    20   -    -         242        3,1_L6
Ph.D. in Brazil             starting       12       8      5    -    -    -25
(US$5,500 per year)         ongoing       12       20    25    13   5    -          75           412.5
Ph.D. abroad                starting      45       35    18    -    -    _          98
(US$13,000 per year)        ongoing       45       80    98    98  53   18         392        5,096
(b) Short--term Fellowships
(urThber of Participants)
(US$7,000)                                20       30    45   '45  40    -         180        1,260
II. Scientific Consultant Ser-
vicesin Man-yars
(us$753000)                               14.5    24    24    24  14    -          100.5      7.37-5
TOTAL COST                                                                                       23,414.0
1/ This phasing is in1i.ca-t1ve only.
2/  Includes fellowships for additional commodity programs of EMBRAPA in Project area not financed under the
Bank Project  (233 MNSc. in Brazil, 52 M.Sc. abroad, 11 Ph.D. in Brazil and L42 Ph.D. abroad).
Decem,ber 15, 10175 



0       -o           D                       -o   Zr  0 00
0  0  a  0  Zr                    0  -  0 Zr Zr     3ZZ
-  N ~     00                 I     D      00Z    
U )0  0" r  n r
0~~~~~~ 0  0  0  0  04
0~ 0 0 
00     0                                             CS    <  >w  
00         0       o                           o      ro  
o0         0        
OnZ a oW
N ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                      a
wto   000                                              0  c
0  0  0o g  0  0o                                      0     
0 0      0 0              H    , 0                                 Zr.  ,,
r Oo a      a                                         I O 
-   o  -               _ - a  e               .10
0  0  0  W  0  0     .     0                     0- 
00              O (                                          O HvO-   
00          0                    -      wo'            00  ,c 
0000           Zr                                      00   .  D:
0  0  0  0  0  0            -   0                      3     10   I 
0  0  0  0  0  0              0 w    0    0      Zr w   0nn o     b      W|
_0         0                                         I wn:X    
o  0       8 0               _                      I 00 Ic=
v a  -      - 0n 0                                     ID  >
00       00 o000g                     ;   sc   : 
w  _  s  _ <v                          I _ <00
00       00                   0 o                     0088  .0 
00       00                   0     Zr 080  8000@>Ws  
00       00                   0      00       0 _       0
.  ,  . ~  ~       ~      ~      ~       0
0      0000LO                                            sr
0    000 8008000 _o o o 
o.         o      88w  oO~  
LI~ ~ I  GNNV_tzW                                               te  



AAAF3X 1 7
Table 8
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
List of International Research Institutes Which May Provide
Collaborative Projects for Brazilian Commodity Research Programs
International Center for Tropical                Beans, cassava, beef cattle, farming
Agriculuture (CIAT), Palmira, Colombia           systems for the Campos Cerrados
International Crops Research Institute           Sorghum/millet and farming systems
for the Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT),             for the semi-arid Northeast
Hyderabad, India
International Institute of Tropical              arain, legumes, rice, maize, cassava;
Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, Nigeria              cultivation and farming systems for
tropical areas
International Maize and Wheat Improve-           Maize and sorghum for semi-tropical
ment Center (CIMMYT), Mexico, D.F.,              and tropical regions
Mexico
International Rice Research Institute            Cultivation of upland and lowLand rice
kiRRU), L,os ianos, i.aguna, Philippines         and farming systems for rice
Malaysian Rubber Research Institute              Research on plantation rubber production
(MRI)
December 15, 1975



ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION FOR EMBRAPA HEADQUARTERS, BRASILIA
EXECtJTIVE BOARD
PRESIDENT
* PRESIDENTt CABINET
SADMINISTRATION &
PLANNING
* PUBLIC RELATIONS
T  LEGAL
OAUDITOR
INTERNAL RELATIONS
3 DIRECTORS
* ADMINISTRATIOADNIISTRTIO
DEPARTMENT OF         DEPARTMENT OF                      DEPARTMENT OP              ~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT OF                                DEPARTMENT OF
DIRECTION GE      DEPATMENT OF            TECHNOLOGY                         INFORMATION NDIFFUSION OF                             DEATENHFFUMAN RESOURCES
PLANNING &                SPCIAL PROJECTSP
SPEC)~~~~                                                                       ~~~~ PULI RELATIONS                                      EL
METHODS                                           AND SCIE-NCE                       DCCUMENTA,TIO%              ECHNOGY                   DTPRCSIGPEONNEL
REGIONAL COORDINATION
EMBRAPA AC'TIVITIES                                                                                                                  COOPERATIVE ACTOVITtES
*ESEARCH INSTITUTES                                                                                                                  STATE INSTITUTIONNS
fiESEARCH CENTERS                                                                                                                    INTEGRATED PROGRAMS
RESEARCH STATIONS                                                                                                                    CONTRACTED PROJECTS
DEMONSTRATION PLOTS
FEDERAL, STATE & UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS
P      |IVATE SECTOR & INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATINS 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WD !L__k__ __2E1____2R






PROPOSED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE FOR EMBRAPA RESEARCH PROGRAMS
EMBRAPA
Headquarters
Directorate
|  Department of Technology 
. nd Sc,"ene tDTS1 
Regronal Agricultural                                                            Nat,onal Com-city
_     Research Programs                                                                                                                                          UEPAEs
Cro pI                                              Animal
Research                                           Research
Programs                                            Programs
4   Reglun   |   g   Cassava  1      {             Beef t-
Semi-a id                                            cmt.                                                Dairy
Trropirc                                                                                                     Dairy
Sheep
Humid                                                    Mzen                                    fShe
TVopins i C                                       Sorghum                                               Goats
_   R,ce a,id B-ano
WVo,ld B.nk 1 5418






ANNEX 17
Chart 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR A COMMODITY RESEARCH STATION
EMBRAPA
ADVISORY                 STATIO-
|    COUNCIL            :-DIREC rOR
I I
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR -                   ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR -
RESEARCH (NATIONAL     _ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
COORD I NATOR )
FIELD STATION AND                            PERSONNEL
LABORATORY OPERATIONS
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN                        PURCHASING
AND ANALYSIS                                AND SALES
TRAINING AND OTHER                         ACCOUNTING
TECHNICAL SERVICES
|  SECURITY AND OTHER |
m  SUPPORT SERVICES      |
l iNFORMATION AND      l
m   DOCUMENTATION   |
Worl d Ban k-15438






ANNEX 18
I'age 1
BURZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Assumptions on Benefits and Justification
Introduction
1.        In assessing the returns on investments in agricultural research in
Brazil, ex-post data on the results of similar investments in other countries
provide the best basis for comparison. Studies of specific commodity re-
search programs and of national overall agricultural research programs have
been conducted by economists in several countries and they indicate high in-
ternal rates of return, ranging between 20X and 90%.  Summary information of
results on both kinds of research programs is given in Table 1 (Direct
Inference Commodity Studies) and Table 2 (Implicit Technology Generation
Function).
2.        An economic rate of return ex-ante for a project of this kind is
of doubtful value as an investment decision tool since there are so many un-
certainties involved in any kind of research process. Furthermore, the re-
sult of any internal rate of return calculation would, of course, depend
largely on the amnunt nf time that elapses between actual expendltures for
research and the time useful results are first generated within the research
system, and then from that time to the point when such results are applied
by farmers on their fields. The speed with which research findings are
applied by farmers, however, depends also on the efficiency of extension
measures and supporting agricultural policies which night either stimulate
or delay such applications. To predict accurately all these variables is
not feasible. However, research will certainly bring about changes in the
overall agricultural production function that, in turn, will provide a major
stimulus for modernization of agricultural production methods in the project
area. This modernization can then be expected to lead to subsequent changes
in other area related to the agricultural production process (e.g., credit,
marketing) and to speed up the diffusion and adoption process of newly gene-
rated technology.
3.        Also to be considered is the question of whether it is more econo-
mical for a country to create its own technology or to adopt that of another.
It is clear from past evidence that the extent to which a country can benefit
from "borrowed" research findings depends largely on the degree oc develop-
ment and sophistication of its own research establishment. Therefore, there
is no substitute for indigenous agricultural research in Brazil.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
Agricultural Research in Brazil: Past Performance and Potential
4.        Thus far, Brazil has paid little attention to agricultural research
and, as a result, it compares unfavorably with other Latin American countries
as well as with countries in other parts of the world in ratio of research
expenditures to value of agricultural product and research expenditures per
farm. Comparative data compiled in Table 3 show that Brazil spent only
US$1.34 on research per farm in 1965 whereas El Salvador, for example, spent
twice as much and developed countries with strong agricultural bases such as
Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the U.S.A. spent more than 70 times as
much as Brazil on research per farm. Besides this, the resources that were
invested in research in Brazil have been concentrated heavily in the South
and Southeast, leaving other regions virtually without a research infra-
structure. Additionally, research efforts have not been coordinated or
integrated with the extension system (Annex 2).
5.        There is much room for improvement in yields in the project area,
as can be proved by comparing yields of various regions within Brazil, as
well as with average yields in other countries (Annex 1, Table 4 and 5).
Of the selected commodities, productivity per unit in the Northeast is
between 20% (cassava) and 60% (maize) lower than it is in the South, and
between 19% (milk) and 57% (maize) lower than it is in all of South America
(Table 4). Furthermore, the large quantities of land and labor involved in
Brazilian agriculture, specitically in the project area, indicate the
enormous economic gains that could be realized from even small factor pro-
ductivity increases (Annex 1, Table 4). Except in the South and South-
east of Brazil and in connection with the specific cash crops grown there
(coffee, soybeans, annual cotton) largely for export, increases in agri-
cultural production are almost always a result of increases in cultivated
area, with yields remaining stagnant. The growth rates in yields of food
crops, from 1967 to 1972, show either no increase (rice, beans and wheat)
or a minimal increase (manioc and corn). The table below gives figures for
the period with production in 1,000 metric tons, area harvested in 1,000 ha
and yield in kilograms per hectare, unless otherwise stated:



ANNEX 18
Page 3
,Growt
Actual                      Estimate /  Rato
1967     1968     1969     1970     1971      1972  -1973      1962-72
Food Crops
Corn
Production    12,825   12,814   12,693   14,216   14,130    14,891  14,275       3.4
Area            9,274    9,585    9,654    9,858   10,550    10,539  10,506      2.7
Yields          1,383    1,337    1,315    1,442    1,339     1,413   1,359      o.6
Rice (paddy)
Production     6,792    6,652    6,394    7,553    6,593      7,724   8,340      2.3
Area            4,291    4,459    4,621    4,979    4,764     4,821   4,807      2.5
Yields          1,583    1,492    1,384    1,517    1,384     1,602   1,735     -0.2
Beans
Production      2,548    2,420    2,200    2,211    2,688    2,676    3,081      1.6
Area            3,651    3,663    3,633    3,485    3,936    3,971    4,292      1.7
Yields            698      661      6o6      634      683      674      718     -0.1
Wheat
Production       629      856    1,374    1,844    2,011       983    1,976     15.7
Area              831      970    1,407    1,895    2,269    2,320    1,490     25.6
Yields            757     883       976      973      886      424    1,326     -7.9
Manioc
Production     2,268   29,203   30,074   29,464   30,229   29,520   20 815       1.4
Area            1,914    1,998    2,029    2,025    2,071    2,053    2,453      1.3
Yields         14,243   14,615   14,822   14,550   14,596   14,383   12,155      0.1
1/  Estimates for 1973 are based on the Second National Crop Estimate prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture (planted area in the Northeast: actual production, in the
Center South).
2/ Grcwth rates correspond to trend values calculated by last squares.
Source: -Ministerio da Agricultura (EAGRI/SUTPIAN).



ANNEX 18
Page 4
Selected Cost Indicators for the Project
6.        The staffing patterns for the various stations and programs are
designed to assure that the critical minimum number of researchers would work
on the inter-disciplinary teams resolving specific problems. All other items
of the project are derived from this basic assessment of the number of scien-
tists needed. Selected project cost indicators are as follows:
(a) average incremental project research expenditures per
year and per farm in the project area: US$10.61 1/; and
(b) incremental project research expenditures per year and
per ha for the different crops and per animal for livestock
products.
Incremental      --------------Basis for Calculation---------------
Project Research                      Project Costs      Average Project
Expenditure per   Area in 1973         1976 - 1980        Cost per Year
Ha and Animal        ('000 ha)   /1  (US$ million)  /2  (US$ million)
Beans     =  US$ 0.96/ha            1,908                9.2                 1.84
Cassava   =       1.57/ha           1,285               10.1                 2.02
Maize      =   "  0.74/ha           2,870               10.6                 2.12
Cotton    =       0.92/ha           3,424               15.8                 3.16
Rice           "  0.76/ha           2,368                9.0                 1.80
Rubber             -                  -                 11.4                  -
Beef
Cattle   =   "  0.08/animal    37,813 /3               15.4                 3.80
Dairy
Cattle        "  0.49/animal      3,761 /3              9.3                 1.86
Sheep/
Goats    =       0.30/animal       8,974 /3            13.6                 2.72
/1   Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1974.
/2   Annex 1, Table 4.
/3   Data for livestock is shown as number of animals (1973) in thousands.
1/   Basis of Calculation:  number of farms in project area = 2.7 million.
Total project cost over five-year period = US$144.6
million (base cost).
Average project cost per year in 1976 = US$28.9
million (research expenditures).



ANNEX 18
Page 5
The figure of US$10.61 as the incremental research expenditure per farm and
year during 1976-80 indicates that, once the project is implemented, Brazil
will spend about four times as much a year on research as it did in 1965;
but this will still be 10 times less than countries like Canada, New Zealand,
USA or Australia spent in 1965. The data on research expenditures per crop/
livestock unit, taken together with the present yield levels, also lead to
the conclusion that the prospects for a high rate of return for this project
are good, especially taking into account the fact that, once research results
have been generated in the project area, they may be transferred to other parts
of the country at relatively little cost.
The Selected Commodities and Income Situation of Farmers in the Project Area
7.        Research on the commodities included in the project is necessary
and justified for several reasons. Besides the poor state of applied tech-
nology in all cases, which is reflected in the low yields per hectare in the
case of the crops and in other measures of efficiency in the case of live-
stock, production at present is barely, if at all, keeping up with increases
in internal demand (Annexes 3 to 11). This situation will not change with-
out significant research efforts. The constraints on productivity increase
are known. Private research on project commodities is non-existent and un-
likely to occur in the normal course of events since the crops and livestock
products in question are mainly for the local market and grown by large
numbers of farmers.  This means that individual advantages from private
investments in research would be difficult to realize. Public sector
support is therefore clearly called for.
8.        At present, all of the commodities except rubber and, to some
degree, beef cattle and dairy cattle, are significant sources of income
for small farmers. Beans, cassava, rice, maize, goats and sheep provide
most of the resources of many small farmers, as well as the staple diet
of the poorest segment of the population. By helping to increase the
productivity of these commodities, the project would have a direct effect
on the well being of the small farmers and poorest classes in the country.
9.        The socio-economic situation of most of the farmers in the project
area is precarious. Land distribution is highly skewed and this reflects
the further uneven distribution of capital, wealth and income among land-
holders (SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey 1973, Northeast) 1/. Data on land distribu-
tion in the project area and income levels for families in the semi-arid
Sertao (the major region of the Northeast in terms of land area and popu-
lation) based on farm size are shown below. These income data are valid
for most of the farm population covered by the project.
1/   Combined report by the Superintendency for the Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE), Bank (IBRD) and Development Research Center (DRC).



ANNEX 18
Page 6
Income Levels - Selected Performance Indices by Farm Size (1973)
Farm Size Ranges (ha)                  0-9.9      10-49.9   50-99.9   100-200
Number of Farm Families                 1.6         0.4        0.2        0.2
in Total Project Area              million    million   million   million
Percent of total receipts
Crops                             79          65          75          66
Livestock                         19          34         24           34
Others                             2            1          1           -
Percent output from crops               83          65         81          70
Percent output from livestock           17          35         19          30
Percent output marketed                 43          47         54          58
Purchased inputs (% total costs)        30          16         16          12
Output/man (US$)                       376         589        850       1,224
Output/hectare (US$)                    65          41         29          19
Net Income (US$)                       149         612      1,229       1,459
Source:    SUDENE-IBRD/DRC Survey (1973).  Information refers to the
Semi-arid Sertao.
10.        It can be concluded that virtually all of the 2 million families on
farms of less than 50 ha - especially those 1.6 million on less than 10 ha -
live in either absolute or relative poverty, as defined by the Bank's sector
policy paper on Rural Development. Their per capita income is below US$225,
which was considered to be the relative poverty level for Brazil in 1974. The
project can be expected to lay the basis for substantial improvements in the
living standards of this segment of the population.
December 15, 1975



A[C]EX 1A
Table 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Summary of Direct Inference Commodity Studies
Ratio of Benefit
Time         Flow to      1/      Internal
Study           Country   Commodity       Period      Adjusted Costs      Rate of Return
1.  Griliches           U.S.A.      hybrid     1940-1955            7                35-40
(1966)                        maize
2.  Griliches           U.S.A.      hybrid     1940-1955          3.6                 (20)
(l96b)                        sorghum
3.  Peterson, W.        U.S.A.      poultry    1915-960                             21-25
(19653)
4.  Ardito-Barletta    Mexico       wheat      1943-1963           7.5                 90
(19'(0)
5. Ardit -Barletta    Mexico       maize       1943-1963           3-0                 35
(1970)
6.  Evenson, R.         S.Africa   sugarcane  1945-1962            2 7                 4n
(1969)
7. Ayer, H. (19ro)    Brazil        cotton     1924-1967                               77+
2/
8.  Hines, J.(1972)    Peru         maize      1954-1967                             35-407k
50-55
l/  This is not a benefit cost ratio.  It is the ratio of the benefit flow as of tne
ending period plus the accumulated benefits to that date, converted to a floTw at
tne same interest rate (usually 6%), divided by tne cumulated costs,also converted
to a flow at tile same interest rate.
2/  Returns to corn researcii only.
3/ Returns to corn research plus cultivaticn "package".
Soure:  Evenson,R., Investment in Agricultural Research - A Survey Paper for
Consultative Group onl International Agricultural Research.  Yale UJniversity,
October 1973.
Octocer 9, 1975



ANNEX 18
TaTle 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH I PROJECT
Sumnnary of Implicit Technology Generation Function1/
Country (Conmmodity)            Output Per      Internal Rate
Study            Time     Period               Research Dollar    of Return
1.  Griliches             USA (aggregate)              $7.00                  -
(1964)                  1949-19S59
2.  Evenson               USA (aggregate)              $10.00-$12.00         47
(1968)                  1949-1959
3. Tang, A.               Japan (aggregate)                                   35
(1963)
4. Ardito-Barletta        Mexico (crops)               $2.90                45-93
(1970)
5. Peterson               USA (poultry)                $1.4o                  21
(1966)
6.  Evenson               S. Africa (sugarcane)        $15.00                 40
(1969)                  1945-195B
7.  Evenson               Australia (sugarcane)        $35.00                 50
(1969)                  1945-1958
8.  Evenson               India (sugarcane)             $40.00                60
(1969)
9. Kislev  and            International
Evenson                  1955-1968
(1973)
Applied Research
LLC'sz/                                         42
DC,s.,/                                        21
Scientific Research
Related to Agriculture
D:CIs                                           60
DC's                                           36
1/  Source:  Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research,
Memorandum by Professor Evenson of October 16, 1973.
2/ Least developed countries.
3/ Deve:Loped countries.
December 15, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICIJLTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Agricultural Research and Extension - Country Data
(1965)
Ratio of                                 Pa&lications in
Research                     Extensiorn            Research                                   Agricultural
Per                           _                                     Expenditures    Research       Extension  Services - No.of
Latin            Capita     Expenditures   Scientists    ExpenditiLres   Workers   to Value of   Expenditures    Workers            Poblications
Amineican        Income      (US$' 000)      (man-year)       (US'$' 000)              Agricualtural    Per Farm   Per Thousand    Abstracted
Countries        US$  2/                                                                  Product        (uS$)          Farms         in 1962-68
Brazil             530          4,500            520               -           603         0.09           1.314         0.13              440
El. Salvador       340            584             5G               885          70         X,32           2.61          0.6 i7
Mexico             750          1,837            231                250        300         1.73           1-35          0.22              259
Peru               520          1,400            131             1,400         670         0.32           1.61          0.77               8o
Venezuela        1,240            681            125             6,4oo         422         0.L4           2.13          1.32               90
Theveloped Countries with Substantial Agricultural Exports
Australia        2,980         56,364          2, W35              -            -          2.11         223.67'           -             2,347
Canada           4,440         40,217          1,483            26,450       2,904         1.28          83.61          6.o4            2,917
Ne-w Zealand     2,560          6,0oo            479                           472         0.55          32.19          6.47              822
J.1.A.           5,590        550,000         13,800           178,000       6,235         0.831         94.34          i.68          21,092
L/ Report of October 13, 1973 of CGIAR.
P/ Per caFita incomes as shown in Inorld Ronk Atlas - 197M edition.
October 6, 1975



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Selected Research Commodities: Comparison of Average Yields in Different
Countries and Two Regeons of Brazil 1/
Average
Brazil               for                                                             South
South      Northeast      Brazil     Argentina    Colombia         Peru         USA        America
-------------------------------------------- kg/ha --------------------------------------------
Beanis            694           517           659          973          506           738        1,355          657
Cast3ava       14,071        11,324        15,000       8,780        10,000        12,913                    14,330
Corn            1,697           6&7         1,327       2,721         1,166         1,822       5,735         1,616
Cotton          1,431           276           776         861         1,543         1,385       1,506           892
Rice            2,328         1,300         1,520        3,396        3,804         4,163       4,794         1 ,763
Milk 2/              _             -          820        1,866          680         1,308       4h,631        1,008
1/  Source:  FAO Production Yearbook 1973.
2/ Milk in kg/cow/year.
December 15, 1975



IBRD-11884R
ii ,-,. . !  v r  '.' ,t t65  n;,2t a tf5n> ,,i;GEORGETOWN i l MC I7
PARAMARIBO
A  E'  NE EZ U  EL A.
-G1 8l ' r E z zrt i 2 - z - r pe) -  4  |      i     W            '           f          r        1 C| ;AYENNE
.   -   \           t-             _,/    G }ldSURI$                        \FRRNChN 
~~OtOMB.IA  >        i                    C'~~~~~~~~~4UI
'--V7%~ (                               //'    ,                                5Gf'  _;-'  \-> AMAPAA t /la t    c  Ocea n
z tI                             .   .      h    7ir, A- . . X , p 1 E t MACAPA                                                         487777040
t -:                 .                  I/- r'7-                .  ( .OC8A7VA7D    8.   /                      :
6  0   E 5 X                     '4'4           A'{      /            /A AHP r c                                          |              {9             .l  C             I
_* ANA7J /0   87                  7      0 e-hF OG           AAS
Wrh;n.Xe L  i 1.-0'  .gif -    .$   '   -'   { s L  -'t //        &UIAEA            '           BRASIIAS"                 ,.:                     G-FALEZA
. 'A. ' . |  s   *  ' tH  R   A Z51:A/  A  A                           7             'EA[,~ .ND
-: Loc7ich                                                                                     y Reseth  iStutiotls   ;   $   : 2 Ting  y  ,  O.DEri SDE NORJTEONATAL
~~  (7A{C~j           JOAO
,C  R .               , .... ' 7 . r tz AsCAMFOGR4NDE fP-RTO VELHO,(,  /                                                                                         E AMED
RIO BRANCO             b      -            -                                                                                             77 *!7Z:V2
77~~~~~~8A7~7                                                                                                                                               PE L,7A
PL  ER', :U                                                                G  R 0                                                                  AhIA                   AVD
*oCUIAESA        '        RASILiA  d                                      0
,   i."lt  .243  a  L.  C TR>IC  505TD4 t                                                                                 G  E5Z'' \ \     Y _< o
.13 P A Z                       \
RICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Lo'tovof Re3earch' Station$                                                                                               o.7R7C          ESPIR ITO
r7* 7 7707777077J A  s                             0 SANTA  CATARINA  \  /       CSANTO
AGRO'RCOLOGIICAL  AREAS                                                                      9,J '.tVTORIA
P0770077880 4,~~4  ECO  7708470*7.00070017780778887778470  4      ,~~ SAO    PAULO              I            780
. 08C    0 304"                                                    R        JANE1RO
*Aw - 4~w   F`748077*7 IJ I I I PL I Q                                                        -.  \                                                      \ U  JANEIRO
* .500     ttA CVMDD77  *00887TER5 L88T04777C   T             ' /    >        /, P/R[        A   R A  N  A                  s"1                                    V 774,74,47\*4
47744080-87                                                                  c~~CURTIA -B                            
00706          Ni:  07                                             -CC I,77,4                                                                                           T777R
08  7TA80 ORMICCI 77788                          ,v'        1 \        :  ,                                                        OANTA  /   >              rCATARIN8
*   7740C77084CM7TCOAL0000MOC7RC078070  ~ ~ ~ ~ 2I~J                        0FLORIAN6POLIS       ~ 
0   T2W"                                            1? T-                                                                                        301A I          ,, IS,>
A   70 -08-0*7480, 804TA                            '4       OP                                                                                           ,I
GE-,AP cAUL- ST.Tl 0                         /%R                                  .GRANDE  &                                                     7 >   = .                   7
-' -LtrtAlAtrvDO  SUI       P                                                                         C Tode
A   FROOMS                                       .  ,_      'v        K        ,I        
00*00A7.PAL7 -MOMMO                                     U R U         MG U AY
4777878                                      .              , t'.\           99 T                 5          800                                     ,- TC
-  BUENOS AIRE      i   NTEV,E                                                            M|r
-77-77 -77-~~~~~~~~~~



