Document of
FILE COPY 1The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1813-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
TEE FEDERATIVE REPIJBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
April 13, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 30, 1976)
Currency Unit          =          Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                   =          Cr$9.935
Cr$1                             US$0.10
Cr$1,000               =          US$100.65
Cr$1,000,000           =          US$100,654



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
IdEPORT AND RECCMMENDATION OF THE
PRES:VDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
F(R AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of IJS$40 million
to help finance an agricultural research project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, includirg five years of grace, with interest at &i% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.       During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and
sustained income gro'wth, strong balance of payments performance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130%
increase in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar value
of exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have
forced at least a temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With
the sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade and the disruption
of the world capital market, the balance of payments is proving to be a
severe constraint on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth has
dropped sharply, into the 4-5% range during 1975-76.
4.       The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported
raw materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75.  These factors
caught Brazil at the bime when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth some
key industrial sector3 were approaching capacity levels of output. The current
account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or 2% of GDP,
widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable
differential between :Mport growth (about 100%) and export growth (roughly 30%)
and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk of the deficit
was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external financial credits
of considerably shorter maturity than was generally available during 1971-73.
This document has a restric:ed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.       The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some
key crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export
growth as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Never-
theless, because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7
billion in 1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade
account was virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflect-
ing the growth of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.       The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation rery
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures
established advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of
merchandise imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline
prices 25% and continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition,
as a longer term measure, the Government has given the state petroleum
monopoly, PETROB{AS, permission to undertake service contracts with foreign
oil companies. It is clear, however, that despite these measures 1976 will
be another difficult year for balance of payments management as prospects
are for a relatively small gain in exports and, as a result, economic growth
can again be expected to be in the 4% range.
7.       Adverse developments during 1975-76 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and
its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the
world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world
economy has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's
primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures
and, through the balance of payments, on the overall growth of the economy.
It now appears that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to
grow during 1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. How-
ever, despite the reduced pace of growth in 1975-76 a growth path averaging
6% per annum is still feasible for 1975-80 as a whole. It is estimated
that to attain such a growth path, the average annual net inflow of medium-
and long-term capital (that is, capital other than direct investments and
financial credits) required for the 1975-80 period will be substantial,
about US$1.8 billion, or three times the average for the 1970-74 period.
8.       At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached
about US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 was 16.7%,
which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of
development. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached
about US$22 billion at The end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or
US$15 billion was in the form of financial credits. The debt service



- 3 -
ratio during 1975 on this total external debt was about 38%, or about
the same as the averag4e for 1969-73. However, it should be noted that
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1975 were still large,
about US$4.6 billion, equivalent to some four months of the 1975 imports
of goods and non-factor services. While the total debt service ratio
can be expected to rise somewhat in 1976, if an export growth rate of
around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be
maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in
1980 can be expected t.o return to the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange reserves
accumulated over the past several years ensure that the country will, have the
liquidity to meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while the
country's record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for
confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.       Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsibility for its allevia-
tion. While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe
that the "itrickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping
a new positive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with
growth".  To this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecaessor, the Government is also working on new measures
for improving income distribution. These can be classified into three broad
areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage
policy.  In addition, .ecent tax changes have tended to have a favorable,
although marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.      As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural
development in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures
of about US$2.5 billion) during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small faLrmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to inc'ude
changes in land tenure,, POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be re;arded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, standardized
programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions covering
large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used
initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the
first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to present additional
similar projects for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration
is being given to a major modification in the state value added tax system to
redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in order
to give the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to accelerate
social programs, particularly in education. In the area of social services,
the Government has created a new Ministry of Social Security in order to
consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend these programs to a
larger share of the population. In 1975 it allowed, under the Social Integration



- 4 -
Program (PIS, a social security fund), the lowest paid workers covered
by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and US$300 monthly,
to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their
PIS accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition
program which, under the previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater
emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income
housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the
past. BNH is also developing a site and services program to reach parts of
the population even lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently
reorganized rural extension agency (EMHBRATER) will expand and strengthen its
activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new
federal agriculture research institution (EMBRAPA) is defining its program,
part of which would be assisted by the proposed loan, to include a selection
of crops and farming-systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit
from research efforts. Overall, the Government's recently approved public
investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health,
agriculture and regional development, which account for about 30% of total
public investment. Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to
improve income distribution. It has already revised the formula governing
the adjustment of the union wage scale and has introduced an 8-10% increase
in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.      By February 29, 1976, the Bank had approved 60 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,563.2 million, of which 36 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, in-
creasing to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching
US$225 million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75, and US$127 million in the
first half of FY76. Disbursements will continue to increase during the
next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
February 29, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.      Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans were
approved totalling US$h37 million, including three loans totalling US$192 mil-
lion for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans
amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million;
and in FY75, five loans totalling US$h26.5 million were approved.   So far in
FY76, five loans totalling US$287 million have been approved, including loans
for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program, the FEPASA railway rehabil-
itation and expansion program, the Rio Grande do Norte rural development
project, a secondary and-feeder roads project and a development banking
project. A power distribution project for the state of Parana is at an
advanced stage of preparation, and we are working actively with the Brazilians



on the preparation of a nutrition project, a second agro-industries
project, two ammonia/urea fertilizer projects, electric power trans-
mission and distribution projects in the Northeast, a water and sewerage
project in the state of Minas Gerais, a rural development project ir the
same state, and a project in support of the establishment of a non-flat
steel enterprise.
13.      Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%.   The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank'lz share in external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
14.      IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country.  Since 1957, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil, totalling
US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled, Us$19.6 mil-
lion repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$83.8 million,
US$61.4 million represents loans and US$22.h million equity.   A summary of
IFC's investments up to February 29, 1976, is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.      In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of impor-tant development objectives, which are interdependent
and complementary. One of these objectives is to support institutional develop-
ment and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize public savings and
ensure that they are used economically._This is a central objective of the
proposed agricultura1 research project, which will assist the recently formed
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, EMBRAPA (Empresa Brasileira de
Pesquisa Agropecuaria), to improve the coordination and emphasize the production
orientation of Brazil's agricultural research efforts in the Northeast, North
and Center-West of the country. The proposed project would include extensive
training and technical assistance to strengthen EMBRAPA. The institution-
building objective has also been particularly important in our assistance to
the transportation sector, where emphasis has been given to the rational selec-
tion of investments, the strengthening of railway operations and the improve-
ment of their financial performance.
16.      A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support the growing
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population, to
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. The proposed agricultural research project will focus on improving
agricultural productivity in the less developed regions of Brazil, with special
emphasis on improving the technology available for selected crops which are
particularly important to the small farmer.   It would closely complement the
Government's efforts undertaken in the recently approved Lower Sao Francisco
and Rio Grande do Norte rural development projects, which will help develop



the range of rural services necessary to ensure that improved technology is
made available to small farmers0 The Government is now preparing, in some
cases with the collaboration of Bank staff, additional integrated rural
development projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer and we
expect to present in the future an increasing number of projects of this
type. The Bank is also participating in important development efforts in
Brazil's urban areas, and a recently approved development banking project,
by focusing on small and medium industries, will give special support to a
segment of the industrial sector that has significant labor absorption pros-
pects and should result in the creation of a sizeable number of new jobs in
many urban areas in the country, We are also actively associated with the
preparation of new projects in the fields of water supply and sewerage, site
and services, nutrition, and rural education.
17.      Another important lending objective for the Bank has been tD help
Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a constraint
that has become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by sup-
porting projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where
economical, to substitute domestic production for imports. The proposed
research project should help Brazil reduce its dependence on imports of some
of the agricultural commodities included (e.g., natural rubber), maintain or
develop self-sufficiency in the product.ion of several (e.g., beans, cassava,
rice), as well as gradually increase exports of others (e.g., beef, maize).
The balance of payments would also be aided by two proposed fertilizer projects
and an agro-industries program all now under preparation. The former would
have a direct import substitution effect and the latter is oriented toward
exports to supply major quantities of foodstuffs to the rest of the world.
Much of the investment which the Bank has helped finance in Brazil's transport
sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth
and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expansion program
is helping Brazil develop output of a commodity which can be produced efficiently
in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful supply of high grade iron ore and
the scale of its internal markets.
18.      A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to sus-
tain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional development
objectives.  In some sectors, such as electric power and steel, the Bank's
participation has helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater
amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN BRAZIL
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
19.      The proposed loan for an agricultural research project would be the
Bank's eighth for the development of Brazil's agricultural sector. The Bank
made two loans totalling US$66 million, for livestock development; two,
amounting to US$77.7 million, in support of agro-industry and grain storage



credit programs; one fc,r US$6.7 million for the Alto Turi Land Settlement
project in the state of' Maranhao; one for US$23 million for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders proje!ct; and one for US$12 million for the recently approved
Rio Grande do Norte rural development project. The Alto Turi, Lower Sao
Francisco and Rio Grande do Norte projects are situated in Northeast Brazil,
which would be a principal regional focal point for the proposed agricultural
research project as well.
20.      For the past few years an effort has been made to increase the Bank's
activities in Brazil's less developed rural areas, particularly in the North-
east. Two special economic missions visited that region, in 1972 and in 1974,
and have helped us to acquire a more thorough knowledge and understanding of the
problems of the region and to identify and help prepare projects. The report
of the 1974 mission. "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast Brazil"
(Report No. 665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in July 1975. The Development Research Center has been collaborating
in a joint research effort with SUDENE, the Northeast Development Superintendency,
on the nature of small-scale farming in the Northeast; and, in July 1974, the
Bank established a liaison office in Recife to assist in the preparation of in-
tegrated rural development projects in the Northeast. In addition, a special
economic mission visited, in late 1975, the vast Center-West area of the country,
ranging from the "Campos Cerrados" (the central high plateau) to the fringes
of the Amazon basin, to improve our understanding of the development problems
and prospects of this region which is rapidly being opened to settlement and
agricultural production.,
Sector Background and the Project Area
21.      While the rapid expansion of the Brazilian economy during 1967-74
was spearheaded by accelerated industrial production, the agricultural sector
performed relatively well in providing for an increasing share of Brazil's
growing domestic requirements for food and fibers as well as a rising export
volume. Agricultural output grew at a rate of about 6% per annum during
1967-74, despite adverse climatic conditions in three out of seven years.
Some 45% of the population earns its livelihood through agricultural activities.
The sector's contribution to gross domestic product has, however, declined
from about 20% in 1967 to about 15% at present, but its contribution to exports
has remained significant and currently accounts for over 60% of the total value
of exports. Three commodities -- coffee, soybeans and sugar -- generate 40%
of total export earnings. While coffee continues to play an important role
in the sector, accounting for about 15% of output, its share in total exports
has declined from 44% in 1967 to about 10% in 1975. Nevertheless, annual
variations in coffee production, largely resulting from frosts such as ex-
perienced in July 1975, are an important determinant in year-to-year fluctua-
tions in the growth of agricultural production, which dropped in 1975 to about
3-4% and is expected to :^emain at a relatively low level in 1976 as well.



22.      The Northeast, Center-West and North of Brazil, the areas in which
the proposed agricultural research project will be concentrated, account for
about 27% of Brazil's agricultural production, but for 40% of Brazil's popu-
lation and 82% of Brazil's land area. In the Northeast, about 60% of the
population live in rural areas and agriculture provides about 33% of regional
product; rural per capita income in the Northeast is only about one-fourth
of Brazil's average per capita income (about US$815 in 1974, using World Bank
Atlas methodology). The region's agriculture is relatively diversified, the
main activities being the commercial production of sugarcane and cocoa in the
coastal Zona da Mata, cotton and sisal in the semiarid zones and the subsiatence
production of rice, beans, maize and cassava throughout the region. During
the lzst decade agricultural production grew at an average annual rate around
4%, with growth mostly attributable to the increase in cultivated areas,
especially in the frontier states where new areas could be colonized readily.
Sugarcane, cotton, cassava, maize, beans and cocoa accounted for 65% of the
total value of crop production in 1972, and for 79% of the cultivated area.
Agricultural yields in the region are generally low, some 25% belowi the average
yields in Brazil; traditional production techniques, an inadequate extension
service, insufficient economic and social infrastructure, and weak public
institutions have kept agricultural productivity low despite considerable
efforts toward improvement.
23.      Agricultural development in the Northeast is complicated by often
adverse weather conditions and poor soll and by the concentration of land
ownership and the associated sharecropping and renting arrangements.   For the
TNortheast as a whole, farms with less than ten hectares represent almost
70% of the total number of estab'ishments but amount to less than 6% of the
total area; less than 40% of agricultural land is farmed directly by owner-
operators. Most of the land is cultivated by landless farmers who account
for up to 80o of the rural labor force -- be they sharecroppers or renters.
The risk of eviction discourages farm investments and the application of
improved technology. The Government's preparation of integrated rural
development projects (see paragraph 16) is an important step toward broadening
the impact of its agricultural programs. Initially, many of these projects
will be aimed mainly at small-scale owner-operators, a large group, often
subsisting in conditions as poor as those of the landless because of compli-
cated procedures for receiving institutional credit and the absence of strong
technical assistance programns directed toward the small farm. In some specific
cases, however, where appropriate services for small farmers can be assured
or developed quickly, the Government also intends to proceed immediately with
land redistribution efforts, such as are being carried out in the recently
approved Lower Sao Francisco Polders project.
24.      The settlement and agricultural development of the Center-West of
Brazil is relatively recent. Over the last two decades the region's population
growith has averaged 5.6% per annum; its rural population growth in the 1960's
averaged 3.2% annually, compared to 0.7% for Brazil as a whole. Over half of
the region's labor force is employed in agricultural activities and some 37%
of net regional product is provided by the agricultural sector. The region
is a major producer of beef and rice (22% of Brazil's beef production and 27%



- 9 -
of rice) and is becoming an increasingly important source of cotton, soya,
wheat, groundnuts and maize. While agricultural development in this region
has been characterized mainly by increases in the area under cultivation
(the share of the region in the total area under cultivation in Brazil rose
from 3% in 1950 to just over 7% by 1970), longer term development will also
depend very much on the satisfactory economic solution (through improved
farm inputs and systems) of the technical problems in developing permanent
cultivation in view of various difficult soil characteristics such as aluminum
toxicity and high acidity. Another key aspect in sustained agricultural
development of this large area will be the adequate parallel development of
transport and marketing infrastructure and of technical support services.
25.      The North or Amazon area presents yet another facet of Brazil's
agricultural development. While the region has been subject to some new
settlement over the last decade, as new roads were opened, the population
remains only a very small fraction of Brazil's total (around 4%) and popula-
tion density is very lowa (about 1 per km2). While the importance of the
region as a producer of such commodities as beef and black pepper has increased
over recent years, its production of natural rubber has fallen far behind
Brazil's domestic needs, largely as a result of the inability to control disease
in cultivated plantings. Relatively little is known about the soils of the
region and the technical problems associated with establishing permanent culti-
vation while satisfactorily preserving the ecological balance.
Government Policies
26.      The Government of President Geisel, which assumed office in March 1974,
established a goal of 4l% real increase in agricultural output for the 1975-79
period, with the aim of making Brazil one of the world's foremost producers and
exporters of foodstuffs. In addition, acknowledging the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem, the Government has initiated programs to improve
small farmers' productivrity. To achieve these dual objectives the Government
has: (a) allocated subsi;antial public resources to incorporate new areas into
production through programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and
the new POIAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs which provide agricultural credit
and financing of transport and rural infrastructure and the like in the North
and Center-West respectiLvely; (b) promoted a significant expansion in the
overall supply of agricultural credit; (c) reorganized federal research and
extension services to intensify efforts to improve productivity and to serve
a broader segment of the rural population; and (d) introduced speciEl regional
programs such as POLONJOfDESTE, which is designed to improve small farmers' pro-
ductivity in the Northeast through the formulation and execution of integrated
rural development projects. In addition, it recently introduced a crop/credit
insurance scheme to insure farmers against a large portion of losses resulting
from natural disaster.



- 10 -
27.      The overall package of new programs reflects a shift in agricultural
policy in Brazil. The past orientation of the Government's agriculturel
policies was predominantly toward the promotion and establishment of large
and commercially oriented agricultural enterprises as the main investment
for developing the agricultural sector. It was feared that small farmer
programs would absorb considerable public expenditure without a commensurate
increase in production. It was also assumed that large-scale agricultural,
agro-industrial and industrial development would generate more employment
opportunities to absorb redundant or low productivity agricultural labor
than any program to assist small farmers directly. Previous efforts to help
the rural poor were often restricted to social services, whereas the Govern-
ment's new approach represents an attempt to achieve both income distribution
and production ends.
Present Status of Agricultural Research, Extension and Education
28.      The structure of agricultural research in Brazil is in an important
transitional period, moving from a loosely coordinated group of some 230
largely independent research units operated and funded by various federal,
state and private agencies to a stronger, rationalized network of research
units operating under the authority of a new federal entity, EIMBRAPk (the
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation). EMBRAPA was created il 1972
as a Government-owned corporation, linked to the Ministry of Agriculture,
to assume national responsibility for the coordination and promotion of
agricultural research and to take seriously needed steps to tailor agricul-
tural research more closely to national economic and social development
objectives and programs, reduce the duplication of research efforts, greatly
increase the production orientation, introduce a more thorough consideration
of the financial and economic facets of new technology, and improve the link-
age with extension services and, hence, farmers. EMBRAPA will exercise its
mandate through two main avenues: (i) direct execution of research through
its own stations at the national and state level; and (ii) coordination of
the planning, execution and evaluation of federally funded research programs
carried out by state research stations and universities. During this transi-
tional period, in which EMBRAPA will be consolidating the management of
previous scattered research efforts and strengthening its staff and research
capacity, EMBRAPA intends to concentrate on 16 agricultural commodity groups
and on farming-systems in the various regions in Brazil. The programs for
the important Northeast, North and Center-West regions, where research efforts
had been relatively less advanced, and for nine commodity groups particularly
important for those regions, form the basis for the proposed project (see para-
graph 32). While much of the previously existing research infrastructure will
be absorbed by EMBRAPA, execution of the broadened and restructured EMBRAPA
programs will require considerable additional investment in new or modernized
facilities and particularly in the strengthening of professionnl staff.
29.      As in the case of agricultural research, the extension system is also
undergoing important change. Every state in Brazil has its own extension
service and, while quality and effectiveness vary from state to state, most of
the state services have been hampered by lack of continuity in extension policy-
making, staff and financing, and by poor technical support. The state services



- 11 -
operated relatively independently and were, until mid-1974, loosely affiliated
to a national association of credit and rural assistance services. The exten-
sion services deployed most of their staff to administer and supervise credit,
since such work has been, through a commission arrangement, a major source of
extension financing. This dependence has tended to cause the technical
assistance aspect of genuine extension to suffer, and has been a factor in
biasing extension workers to concentrate their efforts on larger farmers with
larger credit requirements. In mid-1974, the Government created the Brazilian
Corporation for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER, Empresa
Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural), a Government-owned corpora-
tion linked to the Ministry of Agriculture. The creation of EMBRATER is
intended as a means to hielp ensure continuity of funding to state level extension
companies, to improve collaboration among the different agricultural agencies
(including research) in the formulation and implementation of policies pertain-
ing to technical assistance and rural extension, and to guide, promote and
coordinate technical assistance programs. The Government intends to double,
within four years, the technical staff of the national network of affiliated
state extension agencies, this staff now numbering almost 5,000.   The major
innovations in the new system are the strengthening of federal technical and
financial support for t;he state level companies and, through new training
programs and intensified guidance in the elaboration of extension plans, a
substantial improvement in the services available to a broader range of farmers.
The Government recently requested a Bank loan that would support the
expansion and strengthening of the extension system, particularly in efforts
to help improve productivity of the rural poor.
30.      There are some 40 institutions of higher education in Brazil which
offer agricultural degrees. These cover 57 programs in different agricultural
sciences. Most of the agricultural study programs were started in the last
10 to 15 years, and total enrollment is about 15,000, of which only about 500
are at the graduate level. Almost 80% of the agriculture graduates are
employed by federal and state agencies. While training capability to meet
national requirements is relatively good at the undergraduate level, there
is still a strong relialnce on training abroad to meet the country's advanced
degree requirements, particularly in such areas as agricultural research.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Objectives and Components
31.      The project is designed to strengthen, over a five-year period, the
agricultural research capability of EMEBFtPA. Research experts from several
of the international research centers -- including the international Center
for Tropical Agriculture, (CIAT) in Colombia, the International Institute for
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria, the International Crops Research Insti-
tute for Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India, and the International Maize and
Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico -- and from the Rockefeller Founda-
tion collaborated with EMBRAPA at various stages in the preparation of the
project. The project was appraised by Bank missions in August and November 1975.



- 12 -
A report, entitled "Appraisal of Agricultural Research Project - Brazil,"
No. 1031a-BR, dated April 15, 1976, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is presented in Annex III.
Negotiations took place in Washington, March 17 to 19, 1976. The Borrower
was represented by a team headed by Mr. Irineu Cabral, President of E4BRAPA.
32.      The project would provide for a program of agrobiological research
aimed particularly at accelerating the production of nine commodity groups --
rice, maize/sorghum, cassava, cotton, beans, rubber, dairy cattle, beef cattle
and sheep/goats -- which are particularly important in the Northeast, North
and Center-West of Brazil. The project would include two main types of
research, the first focusing on the improvement of the basic production
technology for the specific priority commodities, and the second on the
development of improved farming-systems to achieve a more efficient overall
use of resources in the three different regions. Both aspects of the research
would be adapted to particular sub-regional conditions and demonstrated to
farmers through a series of state research stations. The nine commodity
programs would be carried out principally by eight National Commodity Centers
(NCCs), the farming-system research at three regional Agricultural Research
Centers (ARCs), and the sub-regional adaptive research and field demonstration
at 14 State Research Centers (UEPAEs, Unidades de Execucao de Pesquisa de
Ambito Estadual). Partially or fully adequate facilities already exist at a
number of these stations. The overall objective of the project is the develop-
ment of new technology, suitable for adoption by large numbers of farmers,
through the strengthening of the Government's pelmanent research capacity and
the execution of priority research on varietal improvement, soils, disease and
pest control, cultivation techniques, farm systems, harvesting and marketing,
and the economic aspects of applying research results at the farm level.
Although the broad goals of the proposed research are long term, the project
is designed to facilitate the transfer, as quickly as possible, of knowledge
already available nationally and internationally.
33.      Project components include:
(a)  a program of civil works to build, expand or improve the
experiment station buildings and facilities at two of the
three ARC sites, five of the eight NCC sites and all fourteen
of the UEPAE sites;
(b) the procurement of laboratory and farm equipment and vehicles
for the different stations;
(c) the development of research plots, including initial land
preparation and the installation of irrigation systems as
necessary;



- 13 -
(d) the purchase of land for several of the sites not yet
Government owned;
(e) the provision of a technical assistance program including
the equivalent of some 60 man-years of longer term (one
to five years) consulting services and 41 man-years of
shorter-term services;
(f) a fellowship program for the training over a five-year
period, in Brazil and overseas, of 123 EMBRAPA staff to
the Ph.D. level and 663 to the M.Sc. level; and an in-
service program of short course training for an addi-
tional 180 staff members; and
(g)  the incremental "establishment" costs, consisting of incremental
salary and research operating and materials expenses over the
five-year. project period.
Project Costs and Financin
34.       Total project costs would amount to US$189.h million equivalent,
including contingencies. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at about
US$40 million, or 21% o:2 total costs.  The major categories of expenditures
are:
US$ Equivalent
( MillionY
Research Station Facilities
Civil rJorks                                          14.8
Land Purchase                                          1.2
Laboratory Equipment and Furniture                     3.h
Research Farm Deve:lopment                             1.0
Farm Equipment                                         2.5
Vehicles                                               3.8
Library Documentation and Information Services         2.8      29.5
Technical Services
Long- and Short-Term Consulting Services               7.5
Fellowships and Training                              15.9     23.4
Establishment Cost
Incremental Salaries                                  6)4.7
Other Incremental Cperating Expenses                  27.1     91.8
Sub-total                                                     144.7
Contingencies                                                  44. 7
TOTAL                                                         189.4



- 14 -
Although the costs of various aspects of the proposed project (especially those
related to the execution of the National Commodity Center programs) cannot be
precisely allocated among the three regions on which the project focuses, and
the research results can be expected to benefit other regions of Brazil as well,
it is estimated that roughly 50% of the project costs are primarily directed
toward the Northeast, about 35% to the Center-West and 15% to the North.
35.       The proposed loan of US$40 million equivalent would cover the esti-
mated foreign exchange component. The Government would be the Borrower and
EMBRAPA, which is a Government-owned corporation through which the Government
carries out agricultural research, would be the executing agency. The Govern-
ment has agreed to provide the local funds necessary to assure the timely
execution of the project (see Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
EMERAPA
36.       E-I BRAPA was created in 1972, linked to the Ministry of Agriculture.
In carrying out its functions (see paragraph 28) as the national agricultural
research agency, EMBRAPA is guided by the National Commission for Agricultural
Research, Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (COMPATER) on national
priorit es for agricultural development and general policy matters.   COMPATER,
composed of the Minister of Agriculture and other high level government offi-
cials and farm management and labor groups, also coordinates and guides the
activities of EMBRATER, the national extension service. EMBRAPA is competently
managed by a President and three directors, the latter with general responsibi-
lities over technology and science, diffusion of research results, and adminis-
trative matters, respectively.
37.       EMBRAPA's total budget in 1975 amounted to about US$58 million and
is expected to increase to some US$137 million by 1978. It depends almost
wholly on Government budgetary allocations or Government arranged financing
to carry out its operations. EMERAPA has been assisted through United
Nations Development Program funding for several technical assistance projects,
and is completing execution of a project (including technical assistance, train-
ing and equipment procurement) financed partly through a United States Agency
for International Development loan of about US$12 million made to the Government
before EMBRAPA was established. EMBRAPA has also received various other tech-
nical assistance and equipment grants from several other countries. Overall,
however, the foreign assistance falls considerably short of the foreign exchange
cost of EMBRAPA's investment and operations program. The project proposed for
Bank financing was defined to complement available bilateral and other interna-
tional support. The Inter-American Development Bank is considering financing a
project now under preparation by EMBRAPA for agricultural research in the South
and Southeast.
38.       EMBRAPA's accounts are audited by satisfactory private external auditors.
EMBRAPA has agreed to maintain adequate project accounts and to provide the Bank,
within four months of the end of each fiscal year, copies of its fully audited
statements (see Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Execution and Organization
39.      The EMBRAPA Director for Technology and Science would have primary
responsibility for overall management of the proposed project. He would be
assisted by other senicir scientists for overall supervision of each of the
various research programs (commodities and regions) included in the project.
Because of its status as a corporation, EMBRAPA is able to selectively employ
staff at salaries which compare favorably with those paid by other Government
corporations and not unfavorably with private industry. However, the size of
its current staff is, for some of the research programs concerned, still as
low as 10% of that which will be required within five years to execute the
research adequately. For this reason, the project includes extensive technical
assistance and training components (see paragraphs 45 and 46 below).
40.      The nine national commodity research programs would be carried out
principally at eight sites (the bean and rice programs would utilize the same
site). The regional farming-systems research would be carried out at Petrolina/
Juazeiro, in the states of Pernambuco and Bahia, for the semi-arid tropics in the
Northeast; at Belem, Para, for the humid Amazon tropics; and at Planaltina, in
the Federal District, for the Center-West. The adaptation of the commodity and
farming-systems researchl results to various principal micro-regions would be
carried out at 14 state stations, 10 in the Northeast, 2 in the North and 2 in
the Center-West (see map).
41.      Execution of the proposed project may involve more than the usual
administrative complications in that project activities are dispersed over a
large geographic area. Also, ,during the early years of project execution, the
shortage of adequately trained personnel will be temporarily worsened by the
depleting effect of the training program. This should be partly offset by the
technical assistance to be provided by consultants as part of the proposed pro-
ject. Nevertheless, in order to closely monitor the suitability of EM4BRAPA's
organizational and administrative structure and its staffing to the rapidly
increased scope of its research activities, EMBRAPA has agreed to prepare a
review of these matters during the third year of project executioln; to present
the Bank with its findings and recommendations by December 31, 1978; and to
introduce thereafter suchl revisions in its structure and procedures as are
deemed advisable in light of the review (see Section 2.10 of the craft Project
Agreement). In addition, EMBRAPA is establishing a systematic monitoring program
to provide EMERAPA's management with more frequent progress reports on the status
of the different research programs, the reports covering, in addition to technical
matters, any organizational or administrative problems as they arise.
Civil Works Program
42.      ENBRAPA has established a special Technical Support Unit to plan and
supervise the project civil works program. The unit includes several architects
and engineers and support staff. The unit will represent EMBRAPA in dealing
with executive architects who would be retained for preparing the detailed
development plans, architectural designs and bidding documents, and for providing
construction supervision. The detailed development plans prepared for each
station requiring civil works would be provided to the Bank for approval prior



- 16 -
to the calling of construction bids (see Section 2.05 of the draft Project
Agreement). EMBRAPA has also agreed to adequately maintain the Technical
Support Unit during the project execution period (see Section 2.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
43.      Although architectural design and detailed engineering work is
not yet completed for some of the stations, the project includes all of
the major construction works necessary to complement other project components
which could begin without delay. The civil works cost estimates have been
based on recent experience in Brazil for comparable construction, taking
into account expected space requirements of the project research stations
and the wide regional variations in construction costs. Where only minor
upgrading or repairs to existing buildings and facilities are required,
costs have not been estimated as part of the project. EMBRAPA has agreed
to ensure that the required upgrading would be carried out simultaneously
with the development of the project at the different sites (see Section
2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
44.      Most of the sites required for the execution of the proposed project
were transferred to EMBRAPA when it was created, but for several sites EMBRAPA
is still arranging for purchase or use. Prior to submitting disbursement
requests to the Bank for civil works at research stations, EMERAPA would
complete the purchase of and/or arrange for the legal right to use the land
required at the respective stations (see Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training Programs
45.      A very substantial strengthening of EMBRAPA's permanent staff will
be required during the project period (see paragraph 39). The technical assis-
tance program has been designed both to assist aEMRAPA senior staff to manage
the rapid expansion of the EMBRAPA program and to help offset the lack of
adequately trained research personnel during the early years of project execu-
tion, when the training program would exert a depleting effect. Approximately
61 man-years of longer term (contracts of more than one year) consultancy
services and almost 40 man-years of shorter term services would be included
to provide general program advice as well as various specialized technical
inputs; help strengthen research leadership; and assist in providing liaison
with similar research programs at the various International Research Centers
(e.g., research on beef cattle, beans, cassava and farming-systems at CIAT,
on farming-systems at ICRISAT and IITA, on maize and sorghum at CIMMYT, and
on rice at the International Rice Research Institute). The estimated cost
of the technical assistance, averaging some US$75,000 per man-year, covers
salaries, other benefits and housing, shipping and travel expenses, and is
based on recent EMBRAPA and comparable international experience in the con-
tracting of scientists and specialists of the high caliber required. In view
of the large number of specialists to be hired and the difficulty of locating
competent specialists in some areas of expertise, EMBRAPA intends to contract,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the assistance of one or
more agencies having specific experience in selecting and helping administer
the contracting of large numbers of individual consultants (see Section 2.02
of the draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
46.      An important consideration in the definition of its research
program for the next fiLve years is the speed with which E4BRAPA can
reasonably expect to upgrade its professional staff. EMBRAPA is in the
process of screening promising candidates for on-the-job training and post-
graduate studies, taking into account both EMBRAPA's research priorities
and the educational and scientific achievement of the candidates. Those
chosen for fellowship sulapport are required by EMBRAPA to enter into contracts
assuring that they will return to work for EMBRAPA for a period at least as
long as the fellowship period. The proposed project includes a fellowship
program designed to meet, EMBRAPA's advanced training requirements for its
research programs in the Northeast, North and Center-West. About one-fifth
of the 123 fellowships for Ph.D. programs and four-fifths of the 663 fellow-
ships for M.Sc. programs would be applied at thirteen Brazilian universities,
with the remainder at selected foreign universities. EMBRAPA intends to con-
tract the assistance of one or more specialized advisory services to help
administer this fellowship program (see Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). The project, would also provide for shorter term, speciaLized
in-service training for about 180 researchers.
Diffusion of Research Results
47.      In order to assure that the research results are translated into
increased production, the project envisages several important actions. On
the national level, of course, the close association already established
between EMBRAPA and the recently reorganized extension entity, EMBlRATER,
will serve to ensure that research and extension policies and programs
jointly reflect economic and social development priorities. EMBRAPA and
EMBRATER will collaborate in the preparation of printed information
and other training materials for the dissemination of new production technology
through the local extension and research units. The careful location of the
state level research units for adaptive research and field demonstration in
principal micro-regions, and the planned doubling of extension staff by
EMBRATER will help facilitate greater access by farmers to research results.
48.      The Government recognizes, however, that the provision of research
results and additional reoriented extension services will not by itself ensure
increased production, especially insofar as the smaller farmer is concerned.
It has, therefore, already initiated a series of-complementary efforts in an
attempt to assure that the range of services and infrastructure required by
farmers is provided. One such effort is the POLONORDESTE program through which
the Government intends to channel up to US$205 billion equivalent over the
1975-79 period for agricultural credit and other investments in integrated
rural development projects in the Northeast. The Bank recently approved a loan
for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project, and numerous other
similar projects are under preparation by the federal and state governments.
Such projects provide an important mechanism through which local research and
extension services can tailor their efforts to the needs of small farmers. In
the Center-West, the Government's new POLOCENTRO program will provide for the
development of infrastructure and integrated agricultural programs and land
settlement. Also, with respect to seed production and distribution, which in



- 18 -
Brazil is carried out both by private firms and by public and semi-public
agencies, the Government is undertaking several programs to help promote
and finance the investments necessary to ensure ready availability of im-
proved seeds. The Inter-American Development Bank has helped finance one
such program. EMBRAPA expects to collaborate closely with these efforts.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.      Due to the dispersed nature of the project civil works and the rela-
tively small size of the individual construction contracts, the civil works
would be contracted through local competitive bidding, advertised only in the
national press but not excluding foreign competitors. Work by force account
would be permitted in some remote areas. Laboratory and documentation equip-
ment which is highly specialized, and for which after-sales service is of criti-
cal importance and must be provided locally, would be purchased through pru-
dent international shopping and, where a reasonable number of suppliers might
be eligible, competitive bidding advertised locally but not excluding foreign
firms. It is expected that roughly US$5.5 million in specialized laboratory
equipment and library and documentation equipment and materials will be
imported. Furniture, farm equipment and vehicles, which would be provided for
the 25 widely scattered project stations over several years, would be purchased
according to normal local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, The
international consultancy services provided for in the project would be con-
tracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The foreign fellow-
ship program would be executed through university advisory services contracted
in various countries.
50.       The proposed Bank loan, which would be equivalent to the total (direct
and indirect) foreign exchange cost, would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the
direct foreign exchange expenditures for fellowships, consultancy services,
laboratory equipment and furniture and library and documentation facilities --
such disbursements expected to represent about 69% of loan proceeds; and
(b) 30% of other project expenditures for all project components except land
purchase and establishment costs. To help ensure an early completion of and
satisfactory continuity in the preparation of detailed architectural and
engineering work required for the construction program, up to US$500,000
would be disbursed against expenditures for contracted architectural and
engineering services prior to the signing of the proposed Loan Agreement but
after September 1, 1975.
Justification and Benefits
51.      With the exception of rubber, all of the conmodities included in the
project are significant sources of income for many farmers in Brazil, both large
and small. Beans, cassava and rice are important parts of the staple diet in
Brazil, particularly of the poor. To assure adequate domestic supply and at
the same time maintain or gradually expand the level of exports, production
increases of up to 3% per annum will be required over the medium term, compared
to increases which were well below that in the recent past and which were almost



- 19 -
all attributable to changes in area under production rather than increased
productivity. In the case of edible beans, fluctuations in production have
caused Brazil to alternate between being a net importer and a net exporter.
With the improvement of cultivation practices, increased availability of
certified seeds and implroved marketing procedures, Brazil by 1980 could
produce a sufficient harvest to allow export of 10% of the crop. In the
case of cassava, while human consumption can be expected to be a very
important source of demand for some time to come, the development of pro-
cessed cassava for botfi human and animal consumption and other industrial
uses (including the production of alcohol suitable for adding to gasoline)
is expected to create increased domestic and export demand. In the case of
rice, even if the relatively low level of exports were not to be expanded, a
substantial yield increase would have to be achieved -- primarily through
improved seed selection and soil correction -- to meet an expected demand
of over 9 million tons ;Dy 1980.
52.      Maize, a part of the staple diet in some areas, is a potentially
important export crop as well, with about 17% of Brazil's maize production
(which totalled 16 million tons in 1974) now being exported. Expected
domestic and export demand could sustain a growth in Brazilian production
of over 5% per annum. Hlowever, yields in Brazil are very low, especially
in the Northeast where they are half that of the Center-South and South.
53.      Brazil has one of the world's largest livestock populations, but pro-
ductivity is still low. Considerable improvements in herd and pasture manage-
ment and in animal health and nutrition will be necessary in order to achieve
the Government's target for beef production increases of 3.5% per annum, a
rate set to reflect increasing domestic demand and a modest level of exports.
In the Northeast, where cattle are a form of security for the small mixed
farming operations, particular attention will be given to farming-systems
research and to developing means to reduce herd losses during the prolonged
dry seasons. Increased domestic demand for fresh dairy products, and
currently low levels of productivity, especially in the project areas, will
also necessitate additio:.aal research on dairy breed selection (including dual
purpose animals),pasture improvement and animal health. The project will also
provide for intensive research on sheep and goat production. Although the
demand for sheep and goa;; meat is not expected to grow more than 1-2% annually,
the animal skins (which represent 30% of the animal value at slaughter) have
export value, and under proper management, goats in particular are one of the
few production alternatives for small farmers in the harsh environment in parts
of the Northeast.
54.      Cotton is one of the principal cash crops in the Northeast, which
accounts for 51% of Brazil's cotton production. The several varieties produced
include a drought resistant but low yielding perennial cotton, one of the few
agricultural crops suited. to the climate and soil conditions of some parts of
the Northeast. Production of this and the other varieties of cotton in the
region absorbs a significant amount of labor as little mechanization is used.
While export demand for Brazilian cotton (particularly the higher quality
long staple variety) has been stable, forecast increases in Brazilian production



- 20 -
of up to 6% per year could be absorbed largely by a rapidly growing domestic
processing industry. Such production increases will be contingent, however,
upon improved seed selection, to provide a more uniform high-quality product,
and improved production practices.
55.      The situation of rubber, the final commodity included in the project,
is somewhat different from that of the other commodities. Only about 7% of
Brazilian production is from cultivated plantations, with the remainder
obtained from extractive tapping of relatively low yielding, but less disease
prone, scattered wild forest trees in Amazonia. Whereas the region is the
home of natural rubber trees, and a large number of species exist, leaf blight
has repeatedly thwarted plantation rubber production. Brazil therefore
currently imports over half the natural rubber it consumes. With domestic
demand expected to increase, the proposed research should help improve extrac-
tive techniques and develop an effective and efficient control of leaf blight
disease.
56.      The proposed research program, together with parallel Government pro-
grams in extension, rural development and land settlement, could be expected
to have a significant impact on a large number of farms of all sizes. Partic-
ularly in the Northeast, most of the potential beneficiaries are in the lowest
-nccIrrLe groups.  For example, there are 1,600,000 small-scale farm units of
less than ten hectares where per capita incomes are virtually all below the
relative poverty level (defined for Brazil as roughly $225 in 1974). A majority
of families operating the some 860,000 farm units of over ten hectares are also
in this poverty group.
57.      It is impossible to quantify the benefits of a research project of
this type, ex ante.  However, there is abundant evidence from other countries,
based on thkeex post calculation of rates of return on individual crop research
programs and increases in crop yields, that well-designed agricultural research
efforts have had economic rates of return as high as 90%, and commonly over 30%.
The proposed project would have a major impact in strengthening the organiza-
tion and production orientation of Brazil's agricultural research system. It
would help EMBRAPA to consolidate a multiplicity of previously existing research
stations, to reduce duplication among research efforts, to assure continuity
in research planning and execution, and to develop an effective collaboration
between extension and research services to ensure that research results benefit
a broad range and large number of farmers.
PART V - IrAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and EMBRAPA, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the



- 21 -
Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The major features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements are described
in paragraphs 35, 38 and 4I to 46.
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 13, 1976






MANN4 I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
BRAZIL               * SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU XMR)                  ...--....-....
...... .    _........                             BRAZIL                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      8512.0                                       MOST RECENT
ARABLE         *-1960                              1970   ESTIMATE           MEXICO         URUGuJAY       JAPAN *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      500.0        50.0       760.0              720 .0      890.0      2570.0
........ ............. 
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID.VR, MILLION)             69.8        92.8       101.1               50.7         2.9       104.3
POPUL&TIIN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          8.0        11.0        12.0               26.0        16.0       280.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND               ..        34.0          ..                 *-        18.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSuIND         42.0        38.0        37.0               43,0        22.0        19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSIaND         12.0        10.0         9.0               1D.0         9,0         7.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE CITHO(U)        180.0       110.0          ..               69.0        43.0        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 91R14 (IRS)         SO.0        61.0        63.0               61.0        69.0        72.0
GROSS REPRODUICTION RATE                2.6         2.6         2.5                3.1         1,4         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                   3.0         2.9         2.9                3.5         1,3         1.0
URRAN                                   5.5         S.0         5.0                S.0          ,.         2.5
ARsAN POPULATION (I IF TOTAL)            46.0        s6.0        S8.0               59.n          .         72.0
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         43.0        42.0          ..                6.0        28.n        24.0
IS TD 64 YEARS                         54.0       S5.0           ..               50.0        64.0        68.9
65 YEARS AND DVER                       3.0         3.0          ..                4.0         F1.0        7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RAT1                      0.9         0.9          ..                1.0         0.6         0.5
ECINOMTC DEPENDENCY RATII                 1.6         1.5          ..                2.0         1.0         o.6
F4AILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTnSs (CUMULATIVF. THOU)             ..       250.0          ..                 ..          ..
USFRS (% OF MARRIET WOMEN)               ..         I.6          ..
EMPLnYMENT
.....___ __
TOTAL LAROR FORCE (T4OUSAND)          2?700.0     29600.0          ..            13000.0      1100.0     SS300.0
LAOnR FrRCE IN AGRICJLTURE (TI           52.0        44.0          ..               40.0        IT.n        39.0
IJEMPLOYED IX OF LABOR FORCE)                          ..                             ..         8.0         1.2
INCOME DISTRIlUTION
...... ................... _ _
S OF PRIVAIE INCOME REC'D ry.
HIGHEST   9S OF POPJLATTON             28.0 4a 3..8 /a                                        19.0 /a a2
HIGHFST 205 OF PIPULATION              Sh.o  j     62.0          ..               0.8 /a      39.0 5      II    a 3h
LOWSET 201 OF POPJLATTIN                L.0 Ia      3.0 .a                         4.2 s       7 " a      3     8 
LOWEST P10    nr 0oPJLATtnN            1 2.0       10.0                              10.2 / 74.A7'         8.8  j
401 OF      1 2.0     ~       ~       ~      ~     ~     0.  ~      10.27w      22.3 a
D5ITRTRUTION OF LAND )WNERSHIP
................... ........................__
x OWNED BS TOP 105 IF OwNERS .S                      '5.0          ..                 ..          ..
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 'IIERS             ..          .5          ...
HEALTH AND NUTRITI34
....................
9OULATION PER PHYSICIAN                2170.0 o    19SO.       2070.0 /           3400.0       90.0        SRO0
DoPuLATIoN PER NURSING PERSON              .      3300.0 N    2e20.0 a           1570.0      3560.0       240.4
3OPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             275.0       260.0                          930.n       Ib0.o        80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY -F -
CALORIES (X OF REOUIREMENTS)          102.0       300.0       110.0              110.0       107.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                63.0        ba.0        63.0               65.0        96.0        76.0
-Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           38.0        30.0          ..               28.0 lb     64.0        45.0
OEATH RATE (/9T4]I) AGES 1-4               ..          ..                            11.0         1.3        1.0
EDJCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATI1
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        100.0       130.0          *-              304.0       118.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       11.0        27.0                           23.0        56.0        90.0
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANn SECOND LEVEL)               33.0        33.0        33.0               12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATI04AL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECUYOARY)                       19.0        17.0       13.0                pa.n        ??.n        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE   1)                 681.0       68.0          ..               76.o0        I.         99.0
HOJSTNG
PERSONS PER RoH o  (AVERAGE)               ..          .0         1.1                2.2          *-         1.0
tCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED MATER CZ)                                    73.n a      67,0L              61 .0  C      *-         5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 OF ALL OMELL1NGSI                     ..        48.0       53.0                59.0
tURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..         R.0        11.0               28.0
COS1IMPTION
...........
RADIO RECEIVFRS (PER THOU POP)           66.0        60.0        63.0              276.0       346.0       ss5.1
PASSENGER CARS (PER THtO POP)            7.0        25.0        29.0               25.0        42.0        85.n
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            328.0      407.0        544.0              586.0       762.0      3446.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 3.3         2.7         2.6                3.1         7.2        18.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2o F    pa-ges
Unless otherwis e noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-1961, for 1970 to 1968-1970, and for iRet Recent Estimate to 1971-1973.
5*Japan hag bees selected as an objective country Since the kasilian 0ovwmat baa Show particular interest in Japan's developmental experiences
al.so the tvo governments have cndwted joint atudism to idientifY poesible future-economic prOblems Of Brasil on the basis of the experiences in
Japan.
EtAZTL              1960   La  Heoanisaly active populatimu,
1970   La Ncm,aiclly active pepgUltiob;       /k Hospital persunnel;     Ic  Inside only.
MST TMM      MMKATU      La  Umpital pwamm1;        &   Tnid   only.
NEXoI               1970   La  Households;    /b 19641-66:    Le  Inside only.
URUGUAY             1970   La  1967, households.
JAPAN               190    /   Hmussbolds.
R7, February li, 1976
twMlTMNS OF MCTAL INDIAIUS
Larnd Aresa Jtho  kha2)                                                             Poulatinon pe nusng pareo     - Population diLvided ly number of practicing
TotaJl - TO   Surface area comprising laiid area and inland watera.                   maeadf       le graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Arable - Moat recent estimate of lad area used tompeararily or* psrnmently            auxiliary personnel with training or espariesce.
for cultivation, pastures, market and kitchen gardema or to lie fallow.                                   bd- Population divided by number of hospital beds
avalalein pulcMn        private general and apecislized hospital sand
GNP  cpita(M$)- GUP per capitaL estimaLtes at ma-bat primeso, calcu-             rebabilitation centers; amclude nursing boomes anu establishments for
Mate   by same conversion method as World Bank Atlaw (19-72-  basia),                custodial and preventive carLe.
ofgfe1(.ofv:    = r -ursmt)- Computed from energy
P                                                                                     equivaldntioflnet foodtsupplies availablainountry per capita per day;
P.  =   vdd-y. miliM) -An of Jaly firsts if net available, average            avaiLable supplies comprise domestic production, lainpwis lass exports,
ortOedyeretcta                                                                     and chasges in stock; net supplies exccluda animal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements
Popuatio  desity- pe  sQare km -Nid.yaar population per square kilo-           wera estimated by FAD based on pbyaiological needs for normal activity
mater(1(10hect resof    ==e ae.                                                and health considering environometal temperature, body weights, age and
Popuatin dnsiy -per square km of arable laid - COmpted as above for              sex distributions of population, and allowring 10% for waste at household
arebleoland only.                                                                    level.
r     Protein contest of per
Vital stiatitics                                                                      cait    etsppy     ffd      r    ;%et suply If food ls defined as
rdebrhra-te Per thousand - Annual live birtim par timumand of mid-              abowe; requirements for a.U- countries established kty USWh Econams
year populations usuall  f'ive-year average  raidin  In 1L960, 197 aid              Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
19,75 for developing countries,                                                     protein per day, anid 20 grams of animal end pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death raLte    thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                grame should be animal protein; these standards are lover than those of
population; usull   rive-year averages endinR in 1960, 1970 and 1975                75 grame of total'protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an average
for developing comoutries.                                                          for the world, proposed by FAD in the Third World Food Sur.vey.
Infant        ate   thou) - Arnual deaths of infante unck  one year            Pe    apt    prtein suppl frmanm an    anL d pulse - ProteiTn supply of food
of age per       Itii1v irths.                                                      deie d fr?rm animals and pUlseingmpa         day.
Life        N     t birUth yry) - Averae number of years kf .ife reasin-           Da      rtUthou) ages 1     -Armual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4i
13i i7   u21iiniffive-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 aid                        years,tochildrenin       this age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
1975 for developing countriesa*                                                     nutrition
(iroe rg~ tiorate - Average number of live daughters a Osman will
ber     rn;6     rpoutive period if she esperimens present Mag-               Education
specific fertility rates; isually five-year averagas aidn"  in 1960,              Adutderlmn           ai      rmr     col-Rrllment of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                              ecnaeo        riaysho-g        _p1o!pultiohn1;1 includes children aged
Populatio    ot rate J&- total - Compound annumal growth raLtes of aid-               6-n years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
on or  95060,190-7, ad 160to mDst recant year.                 tor countries with universal edwantion, enrollment may ex:ceed 100%
P lltio    ew&=b rtel      - urban - Ceqmuted like growth rate of total               since somei pupils are helov or above the official school age.
on;UI       een   d       ern sto  of urban areas my aLffect compara-         Adjiusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
bility of data among counrtries *                                                     ayeducation requires at least four years of approved primary instruc-
Urban EX!ulatian i  of total) - Ratio of urban to total poplaUtion; dif-              tion; prerides general, vocational ow teacher training instructions for
feetdfntOao               ur anreas may affect comparabilita of data                pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenee courses are generally
among countries,                                                                    excluded.
Aestruicte     ro   )-Children (0-14 years).* working-age (15.-6  years),         Teas of sholingprovided (fist anLd seound levels) - Total years of
andd riiat  16   yea"rs and over) as percantages of mdd.yearx population.            ecoln;a        eodr      ee,vocationa.l instruction may be partially
dncrain - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aid over to                orocampletely excluded.
"4seof g.e157hrOugt 64.                                                            Vocational enolet(        f secondary) - Vocational institutions include
Economic      ratio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aid over              techtnical, idiatril o   other programs which oper-ate independentlv or
to th   W gRY. inage group of 15-641 years".                                  as departmecnts of Secondary institutions.
Femly planning - acepDtors (Cumulative, thou) - Cumlativa c.19      of              Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as par-
acceptors of birth-control devices under acapices of national tamily                centAge of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planing program   ince inception.
Famly laning- uers (%9 of marie  wmen) -Peicaitage of     -rried
wnu o.4f cid-bearing age (15-" yeas-e wo use birth-control do-                             rrro        aeie   - Average number of parsons per room in occupied
vices to ell married wowen in same age grsuu.                                       co    tona- delnsin urban areas; dwellings mwlude nton-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Emloyment                                                      O%    V   uR~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ckuzi d d elig  withot pioed water ()-(Ocupied conventional dwell-
force lb     thousand) - Econandealy active persona, including                  unsi    ubn ai ralarmsa without iide or outside piped water
are    acsaduapoe           but eminding bousmwiva, students, aet.;                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in varIous countries are not comparable.                              Access to electricit  (% of all dwellings) - Conventioal. dwellings with
labor force in a   cut A-e   ) -Agrlcultural labor tea-c (In farming,                 Melectricity in Living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
f orestr,     ing anas percentage of total labor ror-ce.                            and rural areas.
tin           of lao   fre)     Unmwpl.qa  are usually' defined as par-             Rural delig      onnected to electricity M%  - Computed as above for rural
sons w      are a  n          to take a job, out of a job en a givendelng                      ny
da, romined out of a job, and seeking amuk fur a epcuied minimma
period not exeeding one week; =7 not be compar-able batan cm-                     cn
tries due to different definitimes of unaiployad and sousme of data,              HMMONiever"S         thou    )   All types of receivers for radio broad-
e.g., employment office statistics, sample eu-ray. complooay UnuSM.-csst geii                   ara   l publ    thousand of population; es:cludes unlicensed
ploymant insuranee.                                                                 receivers in countries end in years when registration of radio sets uwas
in ekffect; data for recent years Sa nkot be couparable since mnat coun-
mhom   distribution - Percentage of private ihame (both In cash and                   tries abolished Ilemesing.
kind) received by richest 5%, rinbast 20%, peowet 20%, end pIeret                 Pass!     cars      thou po) - Passenger cars comprise motor oars seating
40% of population,                                                                   m   tane     t permso; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Distribution of land ownership   Percentages of laid owned by wealthiest            Siectrili             r c)-Annual consumption of industrial, commr-
k0 ad poorest 10% of landcumi.                                                   0          0an      vsaelec.tricity in kilomrtt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on produiction data, idthout allowance ftow losses in grids
HelhedNutrition                                                                 but allowing for izqxorts and expowte of electricity.
t o   B    iian - Poueoe       ivdd    ymte      f rsimn                                              - Per capita annual ooumusqtion in kilograms
"Iicns qualiia        r  a medical school at university' laval.                   as        fro  das      productimn plus not imports of noewprint.



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVLOPMENT DATA                                                         Pa~ge     3  of' 4
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual           Estimated     Projeted.        Average Annual Growth Rates          As percent of GDY
191       17T      17       1974     Y9        10      1907        174-76     1976-830     1970      1974       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /I                      Amounts in 1973 prices and exchange rates
Gross domestic product               62,710    69,E08   77,891   85.369    88,357   121,700      11.0        4.2         7.0      130.6     100.6     100.7
Gains from terms of trade (4-         - 609     - 598      -       - 469    - 965     -. 819       ...                            - 0.6     - 0.6     - 0.7
Gross domestic income                62,101    69,010   77,891   84,900   105,278   120,881      11.0        3.7         7.1      100.0     100.0     100.0
Imports (mi.cl NSF)                   5,199     6,2-57   7,577    10.073    9,183    11,264      24.0       -5.6         5.7        7.6      11.9       9.3
Exports (import capacity)             4,098     5,218    6,596    5,987     6,705    10,784      10.2       10.2       10.6         7.2       7.1       8.9
Resource gap                           1,101    1,139      981    4,086     2,478       480                                         o .4      4.8       0.4
Consumption                          50,437    54,5547  61,529   66,578    69,020    91,586       9.7        3.0         6.5       82.2      78.4      75.8
Investment                           12,765    15,f02   17,343   22,408    20,910    29,775      22.0        0.5         7.1       18.2      26.4      24.6
Domestic savings                      11,664   14,463   16,362    18,322   18,432    29,295      16.4        6.7         8.9       17.8       21.6     24.2
National savings                      11,078   13,784   15,655    17,722   17,482    27,933      17.0        5.8         9.0       16.9       20.9     23.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                An,nual data at current prices                                                   --As_percent of total
Import.
Capital good.                        1,241    1,1'34   2,143    3,108     3,569     7,522      31.0       14.3        16.7      42.6       24.8      36.1
Intermediate goods (excl.fuels)     1,210     1,i51    2,233    5,091     4,636     7,343      57.0       -5.4        12.6      35.2       40.6      35.3
Fuels and related materials            316      1.49     727    2,812     3,022     4,344      63.0        5.6         8.5       9.4       22.4      20,9
of which:  Petroleum                251       :4       605    2,495     2,650     3,711      71.0        4.3        8.1        6.9       19.9      17.8
Consumption goods                     478       !.98   1,089    1,519     1,221     1,610     42.0       -11.0         6.7      15.0       12.1       7.7
Total mserchandise imports (fob)     3,245    4,132    6,192   12,530    12,448    20,819      50.0        1.9        12.5     100.0      100.0     100.0
Exports
Primary products (exci. fuels)      2,315     3,063    4,718    5,606     6,987    13,142      25.0       17.0       14.4       84.8       70.4      61.2
Fuels and related materilal            19        36       52        65       70       101      55.0        7.4         7.7                  0.8       0.5
of which:   Petroleum                 8        16       16        30       30        40        .                               0.4        0,4       0.2
Manufactured goods                     570      1:92   1,429     2,297    2,793     8,231      55.0       22,5        24.0      14.8       20.8      38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)      2,904    3,991    6,199     7,968    9,850    21,474      31.0       18.6        17.7     100.0      100.0     100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                  1973=100
Export price index                      67       73      100       134      140       201      18.4        4.6         8.2
Import price index                      77       82      100       145      158       216      14.3        7.9         6.4
Terms of trade index                    87       89      100        93       86        93        .                      .
Export volume index                     71       88      100        96      113       172      10.0       13.7         8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR L2                 Annual do,ts at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                            As percent of GDP
Agriculture                            8,850    9,:!12   9,535    10,346   10,760    13,995       6.8        4.5         5.5      14.6        15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                   15,875   18,(i66  20,776    22,480   23,222    32,805      12.0        4.2         7.7      32.7        32.8     33.6
Services                              25,554   28,532   32,140    35,620   36,860    50,777      11.1        4.3         7.0      52.7        52.1     52.1
Total                                 50,279   55,1110  62,451    68,446   70,842    97,577      11.0        4.2         7.0     100,0       100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                           Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                    6,168     7,116    8,629    9,757    10,399    15,540      16.9        6.2         9.0       9.4        11.5     12.6
Current expenditures                 3,553    3,2.58   4,227    4,577     5,032     7,107       8.5        9.1         6.9       5.9         5.4      5.,9
Budgetary saving                    2,615     3, '58   4,402    5,180     5,367     8,433      28.0        3.5        11.0       3.5        6.1       7.0
Other public saving                  3,393    3,4.69   4,832     5,825    6,348    10,510      15.5        9.0        10.7       5.0         6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment      6,404     8,0)37   8,705    9,667    10,344    15,198      15.8        7.5         8.0       9.8        11.4     12.6
US$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR               at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                          1971-74 7. of Total
Social Sectors                              4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                   187        0.5
Industry and Mining                         6,060       15.2
Power                                       5,499       13.8
Transport and Coonmications                 7,384       18.6
Regional development                        1,441        3.6
Other   3                                  14(71         37.0
Total expenditure                          39,767       10-0.
FINANCING
Public sector savings                    33,674       84.tn
Foreign borrowings (net)                  5,762       14.5
Domestic borrowings                         351       -0.9
Total finacing                           39,787      100.00
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WdORKIER                 Total labor force                  Value added per worker (1970 prices &euce. rates)
In  million,      7. of total       1960-70       in U.S. dollars      7. of average        1960-70
17960   1974)    1960-   1970    Growth rate       1960       1-97-0   1960    1970     Growth rate
Agriculture                            12.2    13.)    54.0    44.4          0.7           --        402      --        33         -
Industry                               3.0      5.3    13.3    18.0          5.8          --       2,222      --       182         -
Service                                7.4     11.i    32.7    37.6          4.1          --       1.706      --       140         -
Total-                                 22.6    29.,-  1-00.0  I100 .0        3.1          --       1,220      --       100         -
not applicable
not available
/1  The national accounts data were revised is Stptember 1974 to reflect d.ta obtained in the 1970 census.      GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 207., mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been compleated.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
.L3 Includes financial -nestment.
May 14, 1979



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                     Page      4  of    Li
(In million. of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual             Estimated                                    Proiected
1971      1972      1973        1974      1975      1976      1977       1978        1979       1980       1985
SUMMLARY BALANCB OF PAYMENTS
RxportY (Binc. NFS)                    3,175     4,272     6,596      8,568    10,614     12,116    14,001     16,422     19,507      23,274     52,488
Imports (incl. NFS)                   4 028      5,205     7 577     14,585    14,536     15,228    16.854     18.683     20,965     24,308      50.264
Resource balance (X-M)                - 853     - 933     -  981     -6,017    -3,922     -3,112    -2,853     -2,261     -1,458     -1,034       2,224
Interest (net)                        -  302    _  359 _, _  514     - 650     -1,273     -1,469    -1,747     -2,009     -2,272      -2,503     -3,053
Direct investment income                 166    _  202    -  220     -  240    -   270    -  304    -  342     -  384     - 432       - 486      -  877
Workers' remittance                       -         -         -           -         -         -         -          -           -          -          -
Current Transfers (net)                   14         5        27         23        40         50        50         50          50         50         SO
Balance on current account            -1.307    -1.489    -_         -6.885     5.425      4,       -4,8       -46        -4113       -3.974     -1.656
Private direct investment                168       318       940        845       940      1,035     1,135      1,275      1,435       1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursements                          835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025      2,226     2,443      2,654      3,004       3,397      6,218
-Repayments                          - 441     _ 525     - 670      -  720    -  779     -  745    -  793     - 868      -1.062      -1,282     -2,867
Net disbursements                        394       574       706      1,080      1,245     1,481     1,650      1,786       1,942      2,115      3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                        1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819      4,509     5,054      5,258      5,386       5,587      1,524
-Repayments                          - 641     - 860     -1.058     -1.300    -1.579     -2.190    -2946      -3         -4.130      -4.500     -4404
Net disbursements                        801     2,536     2,093      3.717      2,240     2,319     2,107      1,543       1,255      1,080     -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.              504       626       377        194         -         -         -          -           -          -          -
Change in reserves (--increase)       - 560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049      1,000        _         _          _      -  519      - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                   Actual               Estimated
1971       1972        1973       1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                       Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                   256       455       199                    and disbursed               4,122      5,509       6,496      9,096
IDB                                    133       180       250                  Interest on public debt         211         296        440        619
Governments                            199       249       270                  Repayment on public debt        608         758        953      1,081
Suppliers                              324       350       775                 Total public debt service(gross)819        1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -         -         80                 Other debt service (grosq)       607         820      1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121       100       110                  Total debt service (net)/     1,384       1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans      1,033     1,334     1,684          --
Burden on export earnings (7.)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                    Actual debt outstanding on March 31, 1974   publi  deb      i                25.8        24.7       20.6       i7.4
Disbursed only              Percent Total debt service                43.6        40.8       34.0       31.2
IBRD                                               708                    10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.               48.8        45.6       37.3       34.0
IDB22
Governlments                                     1,8530                   253: 8  Average Term  on
Su,ppliers                                       1,008                    14.2
bonds                                              149                    2,1     Int. as % prior year DO & D       6.0         7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                                2,875                   40.5    Amort. as % prior year DO & D     17.4        18.4       17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                 273                    3.8
Total public debt                                7,095                   100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed     347        484         647        872
IBRD as % public debt 0 & D        8.4        8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as % total debt 0 % 7D        5.2        5.0        5.1         5.0
IBED as % public debt service      4.2        4.8        5.0         4.3
BRD as % total debt service       2.5        2.9        2.9         2.7
G Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                           May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Pcge 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 29, 1976)
Loan                                                          Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                     Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Three Loans Fully Disbursed                                632.0
403    1965    Centrais   Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0        0.1
474 /1 1966    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                        Power         39.0        1.0
565    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia                     Power         22.3        0.6
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande              Power         26.6        1.0
656    1970    Banco do Nordeste do Brasil          Industry       25.0       0.1
677    1970    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0        6.3
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0       15.0
755    1971    Brazil                               Education       8.4       4.7
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports          45.0      35.7
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0       12.6
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control        12.0       6.2
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal              Railways      46.0       5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional        Industry      64.5       7.9
812    1972 -  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                             Industry       63.0      13.5
813    1972    Brazil                                Roads         89.0       6.4
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                           Amount Less    Undis-
No.     Year           Borrower                       Purpose  Cancellations   bursed
(US$ million)
828      1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry       64.5        10.5
829     1972     Centrais Eletricas de Mlinas
Gerais - Sao Simao                 Power          60.0        19.1
853     1972     Brazil                              Land Settl.      6.7         6.2
854     1972     Brazil                              Roads           51.0         4.8
857     1972     Banco do Brasil                     Grain Storage   23.7         6.4
868     1972     Brazil                              Livestock       26.0         6.2
887     1973     Light-Servicos de Eletricidade       Power          20.0        18.0
923     1973     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Itumbiara                          Power         125.0       107.0
924     1973     Brazil                              Agro-Indus.     54.0        41.2
1008    1974     Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV          Power          81.0        81.0
1009    1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply    36.0        35.1
1067    1974     Brazil                               Education      23.5        23.4
1074    1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways      175.0       174.9
1075    1975     Brazil                               Roads         110.0       106.4
1151 /1 1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry       95.0        95.0
1152 /1 1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry       60.0        60.0
1153     1975    Brazil                              Agriculture     23.0        23.0
1171 /1 1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista             Railways       75.0        75.0
Total                                              2,411.2 /2 1,009.5
Of which has been repaid to the Bank and others      288.7
Total now outstanding                             2,122.5
Amount Sold                          36.8
of which has been repaid           10.3            26.5
Total now held by Bank                            2,096.0
Total undisbursed                                             1,009.5
/1   Not effective as of February 29, 1976.    Loans 1152 and 1171 were made effec-
tive on March 3 and 24 respectively.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.    Loans of US$12.0 million for the
Rio Grande do Norte rural development project, and of US$85 million and
US$55 million for development banking and secondary and feeder roads projects,
respectively, were signed March 1, 1976.



ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 10
3. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF FEBRUARy 29. 19763
Year                                      ObliEor                            Type of Business                                  Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity  Total
1957                           Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade        Electrical Equipment                               2.00      -      2.00
1958                           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel              Pulp and Paper                                     1.20      -      1.20
1958                           D.L.R.Plasticos -lo Brasil, S.A.              Automotive Parts                                   0.45      -      0.45
1958                           Willys-Overland lo Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Coriercio                       Motor Vehicles                                     2.45      _      2.45
1959                           Companhia Mineire de Cimento Portland, S.A.   Cemenc                                             1.20      _      1.20
1959                           Champion Celulose, S.A.                       Pulp                                               4.00      -      4.00
1966/1968/
1972                           Acos Villares, S.A.                           Steel                                              8.00    1.93     9.93
1966/1969                      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.            Pulp and Paper                                     4.06    3.13     7.19
1967/1972                      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Cemercio de
Fertilizantes                               Fertilizers                                        8.22    3.03    11.25
1969                           Petroquimica Uniac', S.A.                     Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1970                           Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio       Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1971                           Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercie            Petrochemicals                                     4.60    1.44     6.04
1971                           Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.        Pulp                                               4.90      -      4.90
1972/1975                      Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas        Cement                                            29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974                      Conpanhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA  Steel                                             67.00    6.50    73.50
1973                           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP      Capital Market Development                         5.00      -      5.00
1973                           Empresa do Desenvovimento do Recursos         Nickel Mining and Refining                        26.00    4.40    30.40
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.
1974                           Industrias Villares, S.A.                     Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                                        6.00      -      6.00
1974                           Fabrica de Tecidos ratuape, S.A.              Textiles                                          31.00      -     31.00
1975                           Capuava Carbonos Iniustriais Ltd.             Carbon Black                                       6.18    1.08     7.26
1975                           Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                        Petrochemicals                                    10.00      -     10.00
Total Gross Comeitm,cnts                                                                       232.40   30.47   262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                         170.98    8.09   179.07
Total Comsitments Now Held by IFC                                                               61.42   22.38    83.80
Total Undisbursed                                                                               17.68    0.80    18.48



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of February 29, 1976)
There are now 30 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:    US$22.3 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 18, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Changes in the project layout and
design have increased substantially the local cost, which will
be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however, significantly affect-
ing the economic justification for the project. Construction
work is completed. The Closing Date of the project was postponed
from March 31, 1975, the original date, to December 31, 1975 to
allow for disbursement of retention payments.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:    US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties,but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the resulting unit cost
of generating capacity is still attractive. The Closing Date of
the Loan was postponed a second time to June 30, 1976 to permit
payments to continue on several purchases already placed. The
original Closing Date was January 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
656       Industry:   US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco do
Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Effective Date: August 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The loan has been fully
committed. The Terminal Date for submission of subprojects,
originally Jiune 30, 1972, was postponed a second time to June 30,
1974 to give BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an
advanced stage of preparation. Accordingly, the Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1974 was postponed a second time to
December 31, 1975. The undisbursed balance of US$100,000 is
expected to be cancelled shortly.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project.has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:    US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The constructLon of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun of about
US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:    December 31, 1977.    Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content.   The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port D)evelopment
Study financed under the project is now completed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:    US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1976. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. Progress of the
project is expected to improve with new management of the company
which took office recently. The original Closing Date was June 30,
1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. Progress of the project is expected
to improve with new management which took office recently. The
original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:    US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$653 million, an in-
crease of about 65% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. The project is now 75% complete and is about ten
months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:     US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$952 million, an
increase of about 67% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
The project is 80% complete and is about nine months behiid the
original schedule. Implementation of Stage III, which is not
being financed by the Bank, is well underway. The original
Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies an(I detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past-year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$733
million, an increase of about 55% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 70% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:    US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Lan,d Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:    US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:    US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the-
loan is proceeding as scheduled.
868        Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:    US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:    US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The Central Bank expects to complete commitment of project
funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:     US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.



ANNEX II
l'age 9 of 10
Loan No.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:    US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date:   January 9, 1975; Closing Date:   August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule and the
loan has been fully committed.
1067      Second Education Project:    US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected
to be comple:ed by the target date.   Project implementation units have
been established in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:    US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing reasonably well and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. The Borrower
is therefore preparing a revised Plan in which items with low prior-
ity will be postponed or scaled-down. This revision is not expected
to affect the project items. Tendering for Bank-financed items is
on schedule.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:    US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH    PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:            US$40 million equivalent.
Terms:            Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 814
interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project includes the execution of agricultural researcn
programs on rice, maize/sorghum, cassava, cotton, beans,
rubber, dairy cattle, beef cattle and sheep/goats and on
farming-systems in the Northeast, North and Center-West of
Brazil. Project components include:
(a) a program of civil works to build, expand or improve
the experiment station buildings and facilities at
two of the three Agricultural Research Center sites,
five of the eight National Commodity Center sites and
all fourteen of the state level research station sites
at which the Project will be executed;
(b) the procurement of laboratory and farm equipmerit and
vehicles for the different stations;
(c) the development of research plots, including initial
land preparation and the the installation of irriga-
tion systems as necessary;
(d) the purchase of land for several of the sites not yet
Government owned;
(e) the provision of a technical assistance program including
the equivalent of some 60 man-years of longer term (one
to five years) consulting services and 41 man-years of
shorter'-term services;
(f) a fellowship program for the training over a five-year
period, in Brazil and overseas, of 123 EMBRAPA staff to
the Ph.D. level and 663 to the M.Sc. level; and an in-
service program of short course training for an additional
180 staff members; and
(g) the incremental salary and research operating and
materials costs over the five-year project period.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Costs:                                        Local   Foe       Total
Research Stations:
Civil Works                             11.8      3.0      14.8
Land Purchase                            1.2        -       1.2
Laboratory Equipment and Furniture       1.0       2.4      3.4
Research Farm Development                0.8       0.2      1.0
Farm Equipment                            1.9      o.6      2.5
Velicles                                  2.9      0.9      3.8
Library Documentation and
Information Services                   o.8       2.0      2.8
Technical. Services:
Long- and Short-Term
Consultancy Services                   0.7      6.8       7.5
Fellowships and Training                 6.7       9.2     15.9
Establishment Cost:
Incremental Salaries                    64.7        -      64.7
Other Incremental Operating
Expenses                              21.1       6.o     27.1
Subtotal                               113.7      31.1    144.7
Contingencies                           35.8       8.9     44.7
TOTAL                                  149.4     4o.o     189.4
Financing:                                     US$ Million
Bank                                 4 o0
Federal Government                  149.-
TOTAL                       189.4
Estimated
Disbursements:                             US$ Millions by IBRD Fiscal Year
FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81
Annually                       .3   5.2    8.2   11.9   9.4   5.0
Cumulative                     .3   5.5  13.7    25.6  35.0  4o.o



ANNEX III
page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:      Civil works would be contracted under Government procure-
ment procedures, with calls for bids advertised in the national
pres.s, but not excluding foreign firms. Force account work
woulcd be permitted in remote areas. Government procurement
procedures would also be adopted for purchases of laboratory
and farm equipment, vehicles and specialized items.  Foreign
suppliers would compete when local service contracts or mainte-
nance capacity were assured. The fellowships program would be
contracted with qualified Brazilian and foreign universities.
Technical
Assistance:        The pr,oject will provide for a total of about 60 man-years of
consulting services under one to five year contracts, and about
41 man-years of consulting services under less-than-one-year
contracts, for assistance to EMBRAPA in research programming
and various scientific areas.
Appraisal Report:   Report. No. 1031a-BR, dated April l5, 1976.






IBRD-I1184R
7c a       ,,,,GEORGETOWN
A -Ar MARIBO
_,-             } V E N E Z U E L A 4  C    e        Jz-krYENNE                                              S.
\   Cu*_r-r} h       S U R IN A MFRENCH3;!
GUIANA-
C OLOM     I A                 OA VISTA                   /
Ngu       .;- RORAI A\     -                              A t   a     n t  Oc e a n
* (   ,h~~                          < eC r o   -iAMAPAO
. ws  !   \  bk  \ f  ,    | P  \ i       ts ~~~~~~~MACAP4q> 7srS
>                                                    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H   P Rt i  A e'.' Af
F      RTO                                                        I~~ RTHAS 
*               '1       S~~~~A T 0                                     111
P E R U                     )                    S ~.5's 3 : tu-
0                                         G
(         i t' \ - 9\tl~V   E S .....T  C E$R'  ,-; |-t.......... - s
~~ ~~ ~~   GBR:10-1i
PE    R U    I   a       ;                                                                      .01)0,8   / BAIIJ,,o3 
JFTIT..IJLI  O9.  I(                             -  HGOIANIA  -
BRAZIL                                               IL 5 i     ::
A(DICri g T110 Al Ir-crAfnruL T nrn CT                                     -     .
MW\I JL I\ML I\LJLMI\\.i I j r i\vJECTI.                                  
Location of Research Stations       ,                                           ESP _ITO 
A 1. OAA      Cr'dT.-               S"'TO
_W   .                          fOCRANDE Mf    ,r6fl:d 2F&R 9ELoHO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~RIZONTE  /ST 
Ac-RO-ECOLOGiCAL AREAS                        /   S O  U TntZA       S T/' vToEIA      X
KKM-.7SO1TEK' -                              '' . .  :A     PAULO      KA I  --0T I0-R
-2=0  1=1 -- -- ,q ,  , ,;  h1 Xh  )          )tSAO PAULOO  J4  NE
1   jixlil   - <   i -  r JANEIRO  fl j0I0I
*so zLwo  |  -  - --   >,,2  S   I ~~P A R ANA    /IryfdpS
E5o-151  IF  j                      g     INI A.     CURITIEA0
LSTI-AT51  I  ' '  -                        ''                                             ATLA,VIC  C-N,\ 
5550505 MSKTOCAITTERM                  IJ  , ,'  c  S-  , F[LORIANPOGLIS
CTAEAAKTILCULTCTeAI. X TKTTMKCI  il556   - 3~                     I V   I10 sRA              L
*   POT.- ALC,TT  3Rs 5050              RIO  GRANDE  <2                              C           ,
o  ETS  -ATCITCT  -DO                        SUL   PA-O ALEGRE                     0 CC/C 1
C-TOMS                  '1c OOCN1A-
TNo'      __  __ CirATETOSIAKOTIT      _,                                      I J//QBE A
r 155 o4RPHC  *-101         1                                 KIL_ AT TE
*IIOTE CLIATTTETTTMT05IIM-KRKACLASKIFIKCTIKO  iS.                    IL5   
313   t        e       o~~~~~~~~UENOS AIRHSNs..aNTEVIDea;v                      v    e 



