Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13795-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
APRIL 14, 1995
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 1, 1994)
Currency Name: Renminbi
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00 = Y 8.70
$0.115 = Y 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ctkm    =   converted tkm or traffic unit (I pkm    1 tkm)
ha     =   hectare (= 2.47 acres)
km     =   kilometer [= 0.621 mile (mi)]
m      =   meter (= 3.281 feet)
M2     =   square meter (= 10.764 square feet)
Mp     =   million passengers
Mpkm  =   million passenger-klometers
Mppy  =   million passengers per year
Mt     =   million tons
Mtkm   =   million ton-kilometers
Mtpy   =   million tons per year
mu     =   0.1647 acre = 0.0667 hectare (ha) = 667 square meters
pkm    =   passenger-kilometer (= 0.621 passenger-mile)
tkm    =   ton-kilometer (= 0.621 ton-mile)
ACRONYMWIS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CETE    =  Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation
CIF       =  Cost, Insurance, and Freight
COSCO   =  China Ocean Shipping Group Company
CPI       =  Consumer Price Index
CRC      =  China Railway Container Company
CTS      =  Coal Transport Study
DECO    =  Diversified Economy Company
EIA      =  Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR      =  Economic Rate of Retum
FCTIO    =  Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
FSA       =  Fuzhou Subadmirnistration
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
GNP      =  Gross National Product
GRC       =  Guangzhou Railway Group Corporation
ICB       =  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDC      =  Interest During Construction
ISO      =  Intemational Standards Organization
LCB       =  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB       =  Limited International Bidding
MIS       =  Management Information Systems
MOC       =  Ministry of Communications
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance
MOR       =  Ministry of Railways
MPT       =  Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
NBF       =  Not Bank-financed
NPV       =  Net Present Value
PHRD    =  Policy and Human Resources Development (Fund)
PID       =  Policy reform and Institutional Development
PRS       =  Passenger Reservation System
PSO       =  Public Service Obligations
RCT       =  Rail-Based Container Transport
RIS       =  Railway Investment Study
RME       =  Railway Management and Economic Contract
SAA       =  State Audit Administration
SIPS     =  Strategic Issues in Ports and Shipping Study
SIT       =  SinoRails Intermodal Transport Company
SOE       =  State Owned Enterprise
SPB      =  State Pricing Bureau
SPC       =  State Planning Commission
TA        =  Technical Assistance
TEUs    =  20-foot equivalent units
TMIS      =  Transport Management Information System
YEZTS   =  Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study
7FYP      =  Seventh Five-Year Plan
8FYP    =  Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP    =  Ninth Five-Year Plan



CHIlNA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
LoAN AND PRoJEcr SUMMARY
Borrower:                       People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:                    Ministry of Railways (MOR)
Poverty:                        Not Applicable
Amount:                         $400 million equivalent
Terms:                          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate
Commitment Fee:                 0.75  percent on  undisbursed  loan  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:                 See para. 3.37
Economic Rate of Return:        27 percent overall.
Map:                            IBRD 26327






CONTENTS
1   Transport Bottlenecks and Reforms ......................                   1
A.  Introduction   .................................                       1
B.   Traffic .....................................                         2
C.   Past Transport Reforms ...........................                   2
D.  Bank Group Participation and Future Transport Reforms ..... .      .  3
E.   Outline of Report ...............................                    5
2   The Railway System and Reform Opportunities.                               6
A. The Railway System.                                                    6
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                         8
C.   Reform Constraints and 30-point Action Statement.                    9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in October/
November 1994. Members of the appraisal team included Messrs./Mmes. T. Watanatada
(Transport Economist, Task Manager until negotiations), H. Deboeck (Financial Analyst,
Task Manager from negotiations onwards), P. Anderson (Railway Specialist), J. Fraser
(Financial Analyst, Consultant), M. Gill (Resettlement Specialist, Consultant), N. Holcer
(Telecommunications Engineer), R. Kopicki (Transport Industry Specialist), M. Kuby
(Transport Specialist, Consultant), U. Marggraf (Railway Engineer), R. McAfee
(Information Systems Specialist, Consultant), W. Siemieniuk (Environmental Specialist,
Consultant), A. Somani (Environmental Specialist), R. Spero (Transport Economist,
Consultant), L. Thompson (Railway Advisor), W.H. Thompson (Container Transport
Specialist, Consultant), S. Tsukada (Transport Specialist). Assistance was also provided
by Messrs./Mme. Juemin Chen, Huikang Xu and Yan Zong, Operation Officers in the
Resident Mission in China. Mmes. M. Dearborn and T. Ortega provided the word
processing support for the documents. Peer reviewers for the project were Messrs./Mme.
R. Bums (SA21N), R. Carruthers (LA2IE), J. Holt (EC3IV) and E. Vasur (EC2IN). The
Division Chief is Mr. Richard Scurfield and the Department Director is Mr. Nicholas C.
Hope.



- H1 -
3      The Project                        .....................................                                               14
A.       Objectives   ...................................                                                              14
B.      Lessons Learned   ...............................                                                              14
C.       Policy  Reform   and  Institutional Development Initiatives   ...                              ....           15
D.   Investments for Expansion, Modernization and Reform ........                                                      15
E.       Studies for Modernization  and  Reform   ..................                                                   18
F.       Cost Estimates   ................................                                                            20
G.       Financing    ...................................                                                             21
H.       Implementation  and  Risks ..........................                                                        22
I.   Procurement ..................................    23
J.       Disbursements    ................................                                                            25
K.       Monitoring, Evaluation  and  Supervision   .................                                                 25
L.       Environmental Impacts and  Resettlement   ................                                                   26
4   Economic Evaluation and Risk Analysis of Project-Financed Investments  28
A.       Introduction   ..................................                                                            28
B.       Main  Benefits  .................................                                                            28
C.      Expanding  Corridor Capacity    .......................                                                       29
D.       Modernizing  Information  Systems .....................                                                      30
E.       Upgrading  Telecommunications Systems    ................                                                    30
F.       Commercializing  Container Transport   ..................                                                    31
G.      Expanding  System   Capacity    ........................                                                      31
H.      Overall Evaluation  and  Risk Analysis   ..................                                                   32
5   Flnancial Viability of Railway Transport Operation ......                                               ......           34
A.      Introduction   ..................................                                                             34
B.      Past Financial Performance  .........................                                                         34
C.      Present Financial Position    .........................                                                       35
D.      Future Financial Performance:  Base Case    ...............                                                   36
E.       Sensitivity  Analysis   .............................                                                        37
F.      Conclusions   ..................................                                                              39
6   Agreements Reached and Recommendation  ...... ..                                                  .........              41



- iii -
TABLES
General
1.1      Freight Traffic Intensities and Road and Railway Network
Density in Selected Countries .......................              43
1.2      Freight Traffic by Mode ..........................                  44
1.3      Passenger Traffic by Mode .........................                 45
1.4      Transport Investment vs. Economic Output in China ..... .  .  .    .  46
1.5      Investment in the Transport Sector ....................             47
1.6      Summary Statistics of Bank-financed Transport Projects ..... .    .  48
2.1      Freight Traffic Carried by MOR  .....................               50
2.2      MOR's Freight Tonnage Originated  ...................               51
2.3      Average Distance of Freight Traffic Carried by MOR  ...   .....     52
2.4      MOR's Passenger Traffic and Average Passenger Travel Distance .     53
2.5      Selected Operational Statistics of MOR, 1980-93  ....   .......     54
2.6      Railway Asset Utilization in Selected Countries ....   ........     57
Investment Costs, Implementation Schedule, and Disbursements
3.1      Investment Costs and Loan Summary  ........ ..........              58
3.2      Investment Costs of Corridor Capacity Expansion Component . . .     62
3.3      Investment Costs of Information Systems Modernization Component     63
3.4      Investment Costs of Telecommunications Upgrading Component .        64
3.5      Investment Costs of Container Transport Commercialization
Component .65
3.6      Investment Costs of Pilot Environmental Protection Component . .    66
3.7      Investment Costs of System Capacity Component ....     .......      67
3.8      Costs of Technical Assistance ........      ...............         68
3.9      Implementation Schedule ..........        ................          69
3.10   Cumulative Disbursement Schedule .82
Economic Evaluation
4.1      ERR and NPV Calculation for the Corridor Expansion Component        83
4.2      ERR and NPV Calculation for the Information Systems
Modernization Component .84
4.3      ERR and NPV Calculation for the Telecommunications
Upgrading Component .85
4.4       ERR and NPV Calculation for the Container Transport
Commercialization Component .86
4.5       ERR and NPV Calculation for the System Capacity Expansion
Component .87



- iv -
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Group Participation in the Transport Sector ...............            89
2.  Summary of Previous Railway Projects  ....................                  91
3. Summary of Completed, Ongoing and Proposed Programs of Cooperation
between MOR and the World Bank  .......................                     94
4.  Reforming China's Railway System: Progress to Date  ...        ........    100
5. Indicators and Targets for Monitoring the Progress and Effectiveness of
Implementation of Investment Components ...................    110
6.  Action Plans for Policy Reform and Institutional Development Components   114
7.  Completion Dates for Study Components ....................    120
8. Environmental Impact Assessment: Wuhan-Guangzhou Electrification and
Upgrading .......................................    121
9.  Resettlement Plan: Wuhan-Guangzhou Electrification and Upgrading ...    123
10. Supervision Plan ...................................    129
11. Documents Available in the Project File  ....................    130
CEHARTS
C.1 General Organization Chart of the Ministry of Railways ...     ........    133
C.2 General Organization Chart of the Government of China  ...      .......    134
C.3 Long-Distance Telephone Network ........................    135
C.4 Data Communications Packet Switching Network  ..............    136
C.5 Route Map of China Railways Container Company (CRC) ...          ......    137
MAP
IBRD 26327 China Railway System
TABIEs IN TExT
Chapter
3 Cost Summary  ....................................                          21
3 Financing Plan ....................................                         22
3 Procurement Summary ...............................                         24
4 Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return by Component ... ...          29
4 Results of Sensitivity Analyses ..........................                  33
S Actual Revenues and Expenses, 1988-93 ....................                  35
5 Forecast of Revenues and Expenses, 1994-2000: Base Case ...       .....     38
5 Sensitivity Analysis-Key Ratios, 1994-20W   ..................              39
FIGURES IN TEX
1 Intemational Comparison of Railway and Road Networks  .........1



- 1 -
1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMS
A. INIRODUCTION
1.1       Since the mid-1980s, China's transport system-and especially the railway-
has been unable to handle the country's spiraling growth of freight and passenger traffic
(average annual growth rates of about 7 percent and 10 percent, respectively). Many key
railway lines have developed bottlenecks where traffic in at least one direction reaches
95 percent of the design capacity or more. These bottlenecks occurred on less than
10 percent of the network in the mid-1980s, but reached nearly 40 percent by the end of
the decade. This, in turn, causes the railway to ration service extensively.
1.2       The situation developed because the economy grew  rapidly after the
Government adopted the open-door policy in 1978 (averaging 9.4 percent a year from 1980
to 1993). And, although capacity was also expanded-with the network more than
doubling in the last three decades-it still did not keep pace with economic growth. In
fact, the network is one of the sparest in the world, compared with the area and population
it serves (see the figure below; Table 1.1). Thus, China has not been well-served by either
the rail or highway system and growth has been hampered (most severely in the
hinterland). According to World Bank figures, this led to at least a 1 percent loss of GNP
annually.
INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON OF RAILWAY AND ROAD NETwoRKS
Ralliwy Networks                                Road Networks
* s  h1w                                  Le.slh h, bm
30000
T,.ak .mgIl, 5- cM _f
-  -      | T ,# ~~~~~~.M5.L PSk h KS w  2100            l  )  Fasd l..ghh IEn mpe   |
~~~~~~~l             LI l. KM  P.   Iso SOO
am                                                               /A| 7ll5coo  0gPb bIm Ptl 
ClJna  Russia  ISA  India  SsaSm  Jall1n   CRloa Russi      USA     Ilndi   Braln   Japan



- 2 -
1.3       The railway system was unable to match economic growth for two reasons.
First, the country underinvested in transport infrastructure-an annual average of
1.4 percent of GNP from 1980 to 1993, compared to 2 to 3 percent in Brazil and India
(Tables 1.4 and 1.5). Second, authorities did not apply congestion pricing on routes with
bottlenecks to moderate demand and raise more revenues to expand capacity. To correct
the capacity problem, China has embarked on a massive investment program since 1992:
it aims to build by the year 2000 some 16,000 route-km of new railway lines to add to the
existing 54,000 route-km, and some 5,000 route-km of new high-capacity, high-speed
expressways to add to the roughly 1,500 route-km of expressways built so far.
1.4       If China is to move to a market economy fully, another set of pressing issues
also need to be resolved. These relate to regulations and the relationship between the
railway system and the Government, the railway's management and organization, and its
technology, operations and services. The railway recognizes that it must undertake
reforms so as to operate in a market economy. MOR formulated its own vision of changes
in a 30-Point Action Statement for Railway Reform, which was endorsed by the State
Council in April 1994 (Chapter 2), and which the proposed project will support.
B. TRAlc
1.5       The surge in traffic occurred despite capacity constraints and related
bottlenecks. Highway freight traffic grew at the highest annual rate (14.2 percent),
compared with 6.3 percent for railway traffic and 9.7 percent for coastal and inland
waterway traffic (Table 1.2). Nevertheless, intercity passenger travel per capita remains
very low-about two thirds the level in India. Civil aviation traffic, which grew at
17.7 percent a year (from a very low base) from 1982 to 1993, remains limited-with
market share of 6 percent-while long-distance passenger rail traffic grew by 7.5 percent
a year during the same period (Table 1.3).
1.6       Although the railway's share of total traffic declined over the past decade as
the road network developed, rail transport still dominates: In 1993, about 55 percent of
freight (Table 1.2) and about 44 percent of passengers (Table 1.3) moved by rail, and the
rest moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline and air. The dominance
in freight transport is due partly to the economy's past dependence on heavy industry and
partly to comparatively poor road conditions and small, inefficient vehicles.  With
passenger transport, it is partly due to inadequate intercity bus service, the virtual absence
of private automobiles, and the limited use of civil aviation. However, the move to a
market economy will increase demand for more responsive transport and thus shift the
emphasis to road transport-although it will still leave a growing market for the relatively
low-cost rail services.
C. PAST TRANsPoRT REFoRMs
1.7       In the past decade, China attempted to increase economic efficiency with
reforms designed to: (a) reduce Government intervention in the production and distribution
process; (b) reduce its deficits and subsidies to state-owned enterprises (SOEs); and



-3-
(c) open the economy by expanding trade and allowing greater participation of private and
collective enterprises.
1.8      In transport, the country also launched various reforms. These included:
(a)  Eliminating almost all price distortions by (i) decreasing the volume of
commodities produced under the state plan; (ii) raising the in-plan commodity
prices closer to market levels; (iii) raising the tariffs charged by state transport
enterprises for railways, highways and waterways; and (iv) reducing operating
and capital subsidies for major infrastructure services through higher cost-
recovery and user-funded capital construction funds;
(b)  Allowing private individuals and collective and township enterprises to provide
passenger and freight services on roads and inland waterways, and
encouraging provincial and national authorities to develop local railways and
other transport projects with private sector financing;
(c)  Introducing structural reforms in the organization and management of the ports
and civil aviation, which have increased financial autonomy and
accountability, reduced central government controls, and paved the way for
competitive services;
(d)  Encouraging the introduction of more modem transport technology, primarily
by improving rolling stock; enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in
the ports; improving road pavement design and geometric standards; and
increasing the use of computerized data processing and planning techniques in
all modes.
D. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION AND FuTURE TRANSPORT REFORMS
1.9       The Bank Group has supported government initiatives in transport through
loans and credits of $4.53 billion for 29 projects (Table 1.6 and Annex I . These projects,
which represent 6 to 8 percent of government-financed investments during 1982 to 1992,
involved:
(a)  Expanding rail capacity; modernizirg locomotives and rolling stock, facilities,
track maintenance, telecommunications and information systems; providing
technical assistance (TA) and training programs ($1.78 billion in seven
projects);
(b)  Constructing 2,180 km  of high-quality national and provincial roads,
upgrading 6,850 km of rural roads, improving the supervision and quality
control of road construction; conducting studies of key issues in road safety,
pavement management, user charges and methods of financing for road
maintenance and construction; and upgrading roads and inland waterways in
Jiangsu Province ($1.82 billion in 12 projects);



- 4 -
(c)  Constructing terminals, jetties and berths in six ports, dredging navigation
channels, and providing TA and training for port planning, operations
management and containerization ($715 million in eight projects);
(d)  Improving urban transport in Shanghai, including upgrading infrastructure and
improving urban transport planning, finance and management ($210 million
in two projects).
1.10      The Government-Bank dialogue has occurred through project preparation
activities, project-financed studies and secto. studies done in collaboration with Chinese
authorities, especially in the areas of multimodal transport investment and the setting of
sectoral priorities. Eight studies explored multimodal pricing and investment issues.
These included the Waterway Transport Sector Study, the Guangdong Comprehensive
Transport Planning Study, the Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study (YEZTS), the
Coal Transport Study (CTS), the Railway Investment Study (RIS), the Strategic Issues in
Ports and Shipping (SIPS) Study, the Price Reform Study, and the Road Freight Service
Study. Further, the Bank and the Government prepared railway and highway strategies
so as to provide broad, long-term recommendations on how the two largest transport
subsectors should be developed and reformed.
1.11      Recommendations from all these efforts were used as inputs to transport
planning, pricing and reforms. CTS and RIS results supported the Government's decision
in 1992 to raise the economic growth rate for infrastructure investment planning from
6 percent a year to 8-9 percent; SIPS results supported the decisions to invest in container
transport. The Price Reform Study Report was a basis for a major Government-Bank
dialogue, with railway tariffs used as a key example of the need for price reform. The
Ministry of Railways (MOR) drew on the railway strategy paper when preparing its
30-Point Action Statement, which was endorsed by the State Council in April 1994.
1.12      Six other studies funded under Railways IV, V and VI focused on technical
improvements with systemwide implications, including its telecommunications and
information systems, maintenance and rehabilitation of track and equipment (locomotives
and rolling stock), electrification, and heavy-haul operations. MOR applied their findings
when it modernized the railway.
1.13      Finally, eight other studies were launched under Railways VI to deal with
costing, tariffs, and accounting issues, as well as regulations, management concerns, and
restructuring.  They provided a basis for:  (a) rationalizing tariffs in the market
framework; (b) redefining the Government-railway relationship; (c) restructuring the
monolithic railway organization into a number of profit-oriented, market-focused
enterprises; (d) bolstering the railway's treasury capability; (e) improving its labor
productivity; (f) rationalizing its diversified businesses; (g) reforming its housing system;
and (h) enhancing its human resources. Some of the studies' results underpin the Bank's
reform assistance under Railways VII.



- 5 -
1.14      Still, the Government needs to take further measures to alleviate bottlenecks
and rationalize the transport system, in particular:
(a)  Boost the level of transport investment relative to GNP to expand capacity to
meet new demands and eliminate underinvestment backlogs; realize the most
economic balance of investments among the major modes (railway, highway,
waterway and civil aviation);
(b)  Further increase the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modernization and management reforms-for example by
applying congestion pricing to selected bottleneck links to moderate transport
demand and raise more revenues for transport capacity expansion, and by
adding a premium for better services; and
(c)  Improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and within
modes, particularly through more extensive use of containers.
1.15      The Bank will continue to assist the Govemment in designing and
implementing transport reforms. For example, a Transport Logistics Study was launched
with the Chinese authorities to establish a policy framework for market-oriented,
intermodal freight transport, dealing with improving distribution of seabome containers and
modernizing customs documentation and clearance processes.
E. OUTLINE OF REPORT
1.16      Chapter 2 provides a background of the railway system and summarizes
current constraints, past reforms, and the future agenda. Chapter 3 describes the project's
components, Chapter 4 evaluates the investment components, Chapter 5 analyzes the
railway's finances and Chapter 6 presents the covenants for the Bank proposed loan.



- 6 -
2. TIE RAILWAY SYSTEM AND REFORM OPPORTUNITIES
A. TE RAmLWAY SYSTEM
2.1       The railway system is the dominant mode of transport in China, carrying about
55 percent of the country's total freight and about 44 percent of its passenger traffic in
1993. The national network comprises about 54,000 km of main routes (Map IBRD
26327), and is administered by the Ministry of Railways (MOR) an organization of some
1,000 employees. In addition, provincial and local govemment entities administer 4,400
route-km of local railways (Tables 2.1-2.6).
2.2       Organization. MOR is headed by a minister who is assisted by three vice-
ministers, a chief dispatcher, a chief engineer and a chief economist (Chart 1). The
Chinese railway system has a workforce of about 3.4 million, 51 percent of whom are
engaged in rail transport. The remaining 49 percent work in nontransport activities:
17 percent in constructing railway infrastructure and facilities; 13 percent in manufacturing
locomotives, rolling stock, signaling, and communications equipment and other various
railway parts and components; 8 percent in the "diversified economy" which includes
thousands of small business ventures (DECOs); and 11 percent in other activities. Through
various measures MOR is expected to keep the number of employees constant over the
next several years.
2.3       The rail transport system is organized into 12 regional administrations. MOR
performs both regulatory and central transport management functions.  It is also
responsible for nontransport activities that include 35 factories, 20 construction companies,
7,000 DECOs, 4,700 hospitals and clinics, 11 universities, 14 research institutes, 140
technical schools plus numerous primary and secondary schools for the employees'
children. The railway is a relatively well-managed organization. It has a disciplined
workforce and the utilization rate of its track and equipment is among the world's highest:
in 1993, the railway's average wagon turnaround time was four days, and the density of
its freight and passenger traffic was about 29 million converted ton-km (ctkm) per route-
km (ctkmi are defined as equal to the sum of freight tkm and passenger-km, pkm) (Table
2.5).
2.4       Trafric and Bottlenecks.  Partly because of past underinvestment, rail
transport demand far exceeds supply. In 1993, freight traffic grew at 4.5 percent and
passenger traffic at 11.2 percent. Demand is projected to grow at similar rates through
the year 2000. Thus, present capacity is stretched to the limit. Although total length of
national and local railways are expected to increase to a total 70,000 km by 2000, capacity
constraints are projected to continue into the next century.



- 7 -
2.5       Major bulk and semibulk commodities (such as coal, grains and construction
materials) account for about 75 percent of total freight (Tables 2.1 and 2.2). The
remaining 25 percent includes general merchandise and materials that can be moved in
containers, traffic that has been increasing each year and for which the railway faces
increasing competition from trucks. On average, roughly 20 percent of the railway
capacity is for passenger transport.
2.6       Faced with rapidly growing demand, the railway rationed services by
controlling wagon allocations to shippers and the number of train seats available for
passengers. For example, in 1990, on average more than 40 percent of monthly wagon
requests had to be denied. This inevitably led to higher operating costs for shippers who
must schedule their activities around the availability of transport services. Also, on
crowded routes, passenger trains compete for space with freight trains and are often
delayed because of conflicts with freight train schedules.
2.7       Outlook of Rail Transport Demand. Besides the possibility that railway
tariffs will increase, the next decade is likely to see highways, waterways, and civil
aviation mount increasing competition with the railway. Highway transport is expanding
rapidly with more high-quality roads and more modem trucks and buses that provide
competitive services over short to medium distances. Waterway transport is modernizing
to include container transport in the coastal and river delta areas to serve import and export
traffic. Air transport is growing fast, with more modem aircraft and the birth of regional
airlines to encourage competition. As a result, the railway is likely to lose market share:
some long-distance railway passengers will likely switch to civil aviation while others and
shippers of light manufactured products, usually shipped by rail over short to medium
distances, are likely to shift to highways and waterways, especially in coastal areas or
where modem highways run parallel to railways. Conversely, because of its low-cost
services for medium and long distances, the railway is likely to retain its competitive edge,
especially in long-distance bulk and semibulk freight transport as well as in long-distance
passenger transport. Taling these various factors into account, future railway transport
demand is forecast to be in the range of 4 to 6 percent per year for freight and 10 to
12 percent per year for passengers, according to the Bank's "China's Railway Strategy,'
prepared in close cooperation with MOR (Report No. 10592-CHA).
2.8       Investments. Railway investment in new or upgraded lines and transport
equipment is planned by MOR to rise (in current prices) to Y 350-400 billion in the 1996-
2000 period. This is a sharp rise from the Y 154 billion investment in the 1991-95 Eighth
Five-Year Plan (8FYP), and the Y 52 billion investment in the 1986-90 period (7FYP).
This substantial increase is due to the Government's recent focus on expanding China's
transportation infrastructure to handle the projected economic growth rate of 8 to 9 percent
per year through 2000. The main thrust will be to reduce bottlenecks in heavily trafficked
routes, and increase the carrying capacity of the coal routes from north China to the coastal
cities.
2.9       MOR/SPC and the Bank have had in the past several years a constructive
dialogue on expenditures for expanding capacity (mainly through the Railway Investment



- 8 -
Study), developing cost-effective technologies, and maintaining track and equipment. This
dialogue is being strengthened under the proposed project.
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INvOLvEmENT
2.10      The railway has as its objective to become a market-oriented, commercially-
operated entity. To give MOR a mandate, the State Council approved in April 1994 a 30-
Point Action Statement of Railway Reform prepared by MOR, which provides the railway
with a comprehensive agenda for this transformation. The Action Statement supports a 50-
Point Agenda of Nationwide Economic Reform promulgated by the Government at the 14th
National Congress in November 1993. [The 50-Point agenda aims to focus on enterprise
reform to support commercialization of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and participation
of the private sector; this adds to price reform, which is now several years into
implementation.] The Action Statement also conforms with the Bank's railway strategy
paper and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to be discussed at the Board in May 1995
in conjunction with this project. The CAS aims to assist China in alleviating infrastructure
bottlenecks, reforming SOEs, and safeguarding the environment.  Because the
implementation of the Action Statement's agenda will have far-reaching ramifications not
only for the railway but also for the economy, the restructuring of the railway into various
self-accounting profit centers must be determined with great care, as must the new
regulations and the relationship between the railway and Government.
2.11      Because of its limited familiarity with structures and operating practices of
market-economy railways, MOR has asked the Bank to assist it in implementing the initial
phase of the Action Statement through the proposed project. The Bank, given its extensive
experience with railway reforms in other countries and its familiarity with the railway, is
in a position to assist. Indeed, since 1984 the Bank has lent to China's railway sector $1.8
billion, through six national railway operations and one local railway operation (Annex 2!.
Railways I to V were mainly for physical investments, which were or are being
satisfactorily implemented. Furthermore, these loans supported MOR in undertaking
several studies to develop plans to modernize the railway's information systems and its
track and equipment technologies (Annex 3). Railways VI was designed as a transition
project with the aim of establishing a foundation for policy reform through studies and the
preparation of analytical tools.  Its tariff, accounting and railway management and
economic studies (covering, among other themes, the relationship between the Government
and MOR, restructuring of the railway, and railway financial resource mobilization) have
been completed or are near completion, a railway investment model and costing model
have been developed, and a pilot program to modernize rail container transportation has
been initiated (Annex 3). Railways VII builds on these studies, tools and pilot effort to
continue tariff reform, railway restructuring, strengthening of MOR's investment decisions
and their financing, and commercialization of container transport.



- 9 -
C. REFORM CONStANSS AND 30-POINT ACnION STATEMENT
2.12      Although the railway is relatively well managed, it is still constrained in four
main areas:  (a) cumbersome regulations and government control over operations;
(b) command-economy organization and management; (c) inadequate capacity, investment
and finance; and (d) outdated technologies, operations and services. MOR has taken many
corrective steps in recent years (Annex 4), but much remains to be done. MOR's 30-Point
Action Statement describes a set of major objectives and many, but not all, of the required
actions to ameliorate these constraints.
2.13      Government-Railway Relationship and Railway Regulations. MOR, which
is part of the Government, exercises both regulatory and executive control over all aspects
of the railway's operations. Other government agencies also engage in the microcontrol
of selected key management decision-making. For example, the Ministry of Labor
approves the size of total compensation. The State Planning Commission (SPC) not only
approves tariffs but also assigns coal freight traffic quotas from three provinces that the
railway must meet, sometimes at tariffs below costs.  This is done without full
compensation; thus, the railway furnishes these services at a loss.
2.14      To tackle these problems, the 30-Point Action Statement proposes to:
(a) separate the roles of the Government and railway agencies-with the Government
limited to developing and implementing macroregulations (for example as related to
financial targets); (b) introduce compensation for public service obligations; and (c) create
an enabling environment, by amending the Railway Law, in which modern railway
enterprises can develop. Previous efforts have addressed some of these issues. These
included:
(a)  Forming an Economic Contract. In 1986, MOR entered into an economic
contract with the Government, which caused two major changes. First, the
MOR would receive no direct Govemment subsidies and finance all of its
operating expenditures and capital investments (through internally generated
funds and borrowings). Second, the contract offered incentives: the MOR's
total wage bill would be based on revenue per net tkm handled. This formula
encouraged the railways to increase total outputs as well as to control the size
of its workforce, but not to improve services, revenues and profits. In early
1994, the Government and MOR agreed to modify the contract to emphasize
financial results;
(b)  Eliminating Price Subsidies. Until 1990, the MOR enjoyed indirect input
price and loan rate subsidies from the Government equal to 20 to 25 percent
of its total expenses for materials, fuel and electricity, because it bought a
portion of these items at less-than-market prices. In 1990, prices were
permitted to gradually rise to market levels and by late 1993, all price and
loan rate subsidies were eliminated;



- 10 -
(c)  Enacting a Railway Law. In 1991, China's first Railway Law was enacted
to provide a framework for regulating the railway's activities and establishing
the rights and responsibilities of the various levels of govemment, MOR, its
12 administrations, and the public. However, several provisions in the 1991
Law do not conform with MOR's 30-Point Action Statement (such as the
principle of separating MOR's operating and regulatory functions). Thus, the
Law needs to be amended, and MOR has asked the Bank for assistance in
drafting revisions.
2.15      Organization and Management. The 12 railway administrations are subject
to MOR's central planning and control-although, since 1990, a series of incremental
reforms have been introduced to give the administrations a modest increase in autonomy.
As of 1994, the administrations were: (a) managing small-scale investment projects;
(b) retaining profits from local transport (shipments that originated and terminated within
the administration); and (c) deciding on their internal organizational structure, staff size
and composition, and distribution of pay incentives.
2.16      Until now, the railway's objective was to maximize the physical transport of
freight and passengers; its services have not been organized by line of business and its
compensation systems have not focused on increasing revenues and profits. Also, it does
not have management information systems (MISs) that are suitable for managing its
transport operations by line of business or its nontransport operations in a Socialist market
economy. In addition, its nontransport manufacturing and diversified economy activities
need to be restructured to compete effectively in a Socialist market economy and to take
advantage of economies of scale. Finally, like other SOEs, the railway has to shoulder the
burden of providing welfare services (housing, pensions, health and education) to its staff.
2.17      To deal with these issues, the Action Statement proposes to: (a) increase the
autonomy of the administrations and subadministrations; (b) form various profit-oriented
transport enterprises organized along lines of business (for example, systemwide companies
that provide specialized interregional transport services such as hauling containers);
(c) allow these enterprises to interact through arms-length commercial relationships, such
as operating and lease agreements; (d) regroup the equipment manufacturing companies to
achieve competition and economies of specialization; (e) expose railway construction
companies to international competitive bidding; (f) rationalize the diversified-economy
companies; (g) divest the railway of its social welfare responsibilities; and (h) improve the
staff compensation and manpower planning systems. Past efforts in these areas include:
(a)  Initiating Pilot Reform Programs. MOR began experimenting with railway
restructuring and enterprise reform by setting up pilot programs aimed at
evaluating "line-of-business" organizations for selected railway lines and
subunits of regional administrations. These included (i) two railway lines
(Datong-Qinhuangdao and Guangzhou-Shenzhen); (ii) two subadministrations
(Fuzhou and Jinan), and (iii) one administration (Guangzhou). Technical
assistance for some of these programs, which was started under Railways VI,
would be supported under Railways VII also;



- 11 -
(b)  Increasing Labor Productivity. MOR decided to control the size of its
workforce by (i) minimizing the staffing for new lines; (ii) penalizing
managers for exceeding targeted staffing levels; (iii) reducing management in
the administrations and MOR by 15 to 20 percent; and (iv) hiring almost all
new employees on a contract, rather than lifetime, basis. These programs
would be supported under Railways VII;
(c)  Refocusing the Diversified-Economy Program.   MOR  resolved to
(i) separate the management of diversified-economy companies (DECOs) from
that of rail transport; and (ii) expand the scope of its DECOs, which currently
are profitable, to absorb additional redundant transport employees, from the
present 200,000 to 400,000 by the year 2000.
2.18      MOR has not yet resolved, in its 30-Point Action Statement, the functions and
organizational relationships of a possible central transportation management entity. This
entity would assume network responsibility for overseeing (a) empty wagon distribution;
(b) power assignments of through locomotives; and (c) day-to-day modifications of through
train schedules. This is a difficult issue. Based on the experience of other freight-oriented
railways in developed-market economies, there are inherent efficiencies in centralized
management of trains, locomotive and freight wagons. However, strong political pressures
persist in China to decentralize transportation decision-making to the administrations and
subadministrations. MOR has asked the Bank to help resolve this issue under Railways
VII.
2.19      Transport Capacity Investments and Fmancial Management. The Chinese
railway system has chronically lacked the capacity to adequately support rapid economic
growth. In addition, the current expansion program may not close more than 75 percent
of the anticipated gap between transport demand and supply in 2000. This is partly due
to MOR not regularly applying modern investment and financial planning tools to optimize
the location, scale and timing of railway investments or to forecast its long-term needs for
investments, borrowings and increases in tariffs and surcharges. Another reason is that
the railway just began to adopt modern, cost-effective track and equipment technologies
(such as using trains with a high ratio of payload to tare weight) to expand its capacity with
less investment. Further, the railway has limited experience in raising capital and
managing assets and liabilities.  Last, it is not familiar with commercial practices
commonly followed in market economies such as operational logistics and contract tariff
negotiations.
2.20      To remedy these deficiencies, MOR's Action Statement proposes to:
(a) employ modern investment and financial planning tools; (b) adopt more cost-effective
technologies; (c) attract private sector funds to railway enterprises through both debt and
equity financing; and (d) improve pricing-for example, by initiating congestion and
contract pricing. Some changes were already introduced:
(a)  Applying Investment Planning Tools. In 1992, MOR applied the decision-
support system it developed under the Bank-supported Railway Investment



- 12 -
Study (RIS) to (i) determine priorities of railway investment projects, and
(ii) support the Government's decision to augment railway investment.
Further applications would be carried out under Railways VII;
(b)  Involving Foreign Investors. In 1992, new policies were issued to encourage
some of MOR's nonrail entities to raise capital by creating joint ventures with
private foreign investors. In 1994, a joint venture (with 25 percent foreign
equity) was created to build and operate a new local railway line between
Jinhua and Wenzhou (330 km);
(c)  Expanding Capacity More Efficiently. In 1994, MOR decided to implement
recommendations of the Bank-supported Cost-Effective Technology Evaluation
(CETE) study to expand railway capacity at significantly lower costs, notably
by raising wagon axle loads from 21 tons to 25 tons in heavily trafficked
corridors;
(d)  Introducing New Types of Tariffs. From 1993 to 1994, MOR received
permission from the State Pricing Bureau (SPB) to introduce special tariffs,
such as extra charges for congested passenger lines, higher tariffs for new
lines, contract prices for oversized or extraheavy freight loads, and passenger
fare surcharges for higher quality services. Some of these tariff initiatives
would be supported under Railways VII.
2.21      Technology, Operations and Services. Although the railway utilizes its
physical assets intensively, much of its technology is outdated and not always cost-
effective. For example, although they are being phased out, some 35 percent of the
railway's locomotives were steam-powered at end-1993. Also, the top-down approach to
transport planning, combined with shortages of freight wagons, means shippers wait from
20 to 50 days to receive a wagon. This standard of service would be unacceptable in
virtually all market economies.
2.22      To correct these problems, the Action Statement proposes to: (a) upgrade
railway track and equipment technologies; (b) develop a more dynamic wagon distribution
planning system; (c) adopt modem management practices to improve the use of track and
equipment and the productivity of labor (using service as a criterion for rewarding staff
performance); and (d) install modern management information systems to improve
customer services. Changes already introduced include the following:
(a)  Modernizing Track, Equipment, and Telecommunications Technologies.
During 1988 to 1992, MOR conducted Bank-supported studies to modernize
the maintenance of railway track and transport equipment, upgrade the
telecommunications system, and apply new electrification technologies. Many
recommendations from these studies are being implemented;
(b)  Introducing Modern Information Systems. In 1992, MOR embarked on two
complementary programs: (i) it installed a digital packet-switch telecommuni-



- 13 -
cations network and (ii) it initiated the replacement of the hierarchical wagon-
tracing system with a modem, computer-based transport management
information system (TMIS). When fully implemented in 1997, the TMIS will
provide the tools to decrease shippers' waiting times through better distribution
of empty wagons. It will also permit transport managers to monitor and
control the movement of trains, wagons, locomotives and containers on a
network basis. This work would be continued under Railways VII;
(c) Adopting Customer-Responsive Operating Practices. In 1993, MOR
launched a Bank-assisted pilot program to provide container transport services
that used unit trains running at passenger-train speeds north-to-south between
Harbin and Guangzhou and east-to-west between Shanghai and Xian. This
work would be extended under Railways VII.
2.23      The process of railway reform outlined above is expected to be difficult,
lengthy and uneven because of: (a) the size and complexity of the railway system; (b) the
reluctance of some government agencies and some railway management to relinquish their
miicrocontrol over the railway; and (c) the ramifications to the entire economy of any
changes to the railway in structure, staffing and pricing.  For these reasons, the
Government and MOR are following a cautious, gradual approach in testing reform
initiatives in pilot experiments, which the Bank considers appropriate.



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. OBJEcTrES
3.1       The proposed project is to support MOR's initial efforts to implement its
30-Point Action Statement of Railway Reform. The project's main objectives are to assist
MOR: (a) redefine the relationship between the railway and the Government; (b) reshape
the railway's organization and strengthen its internal management; (c) expand the railway's
transport capacity, raise its investment efficiency, and enhance its finances; and
(d) modernize the railway's technologies and bolster the efficiency and quality of its
transport operations and service. To achieve these objectives, MOR formulated a series
of components on policy reform and institutional development (PID), investments, and
studies (Sections C-E below).
B. LESSONS LEARNED
3.2       The project draws on lessons learned from Railways I to VI, and railway
projects in other developed and developing countries. First, MOR wants to learn new
skills from abroad and prepare its own projects, with Bank assistance; it hires foreign
specialists only when absolutely necessary. This approach has generally created a sense
of ownership, but learning by doing has sometimes delayed project preparation and
implementation. Thus, to assist MOR at the earlier stage of reform, the Bank has provided
it in the past five years with extensive technical assistance (TA) financed by grants of about
$3 million under the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund. This
source of TA funding, however, is less likely to be forthcoming in future. To avoid delays
in implementing reform under the proposed project, MOR agreed to undertake more TA
with its own funding including that from Bank loans.
3.3       Second, railway reform is slow due to the railway's lack of authority over
rates, its lack of a commercial approach to the transport market, and resistance to change
on the part of railway management and government institutions. Railways VII would also
face these issues. Third, excessive reliance on loan covenants to achieve reform objectives
is unrealistic. As the Bank enjoys a constructive dialogue with MOR, loan covenants have
been kept to a minimum under this project. Fourth, it is advantageous to begin making
advance procurement arrangements long before the loan becomes effective, have a well-
prepared implementation plan, and develop a system for monitoring the performance of the
project-financed investments.
3.4       Furthermore, MOR's reform agenda is broadly consistent with lessons from
railway reform in developed market economies (World Bank Discussion Paper No. 269).
First, there should be clear separation between the role of the Government and the role of



- 15 -
the railway, and between market-driven activities and public-service-obligation activities.
Second, railway organizations should be designed along lines of business, with clear
financial goals (rather than physical output targets), adequate compensation for public
service obligations, and sufficient authority in tariff setting. Third, major barriers such
as excessive redundant labor and employee welfare obligations should be removed.
C. POLICY REFORM AND INSTITONAL DEVELOPMENT INrITATIvEs
3.5       PID components would provide MOR with the TA to implement three elements
of its 30-Point Action Statement: (a) railway enterprise reform, (b) railway tariff reform,
and (c) labor productivity enhancement.
3.6       Railway Enterprise Reform. This component would support MOR's initial
efforts to transform the railway into a group of geographically-based enterprises and
systemwide, line-of-business specialized transport service companies. Specifically, it
would help MOR: (a) prepare recommendations for improving the legal and regulatory
framework so as to create an enabling environment for market-oriented railway enterprises
to function; (b) undertake experimental programs of railway enterprise reform [including
the proposed restructuring of the Fuzhou Subadministration (FSA) and the Guangzhou
Railway Group Corporation (GRC)]; and, based on lessons learned from these
experiments, prepare a comprehensive plan for railway restructuring; and (c) prepare a
debt and equity financing strategy for selected railway services.
3.7       Railway Tariff Reform. This component would assist MOR in improving
railway tariffs further, by: (a) justifying tariff adjustments on a cost recovery basis (using
a costing model and a cost-index system to gear tariffs to price and productivity changes);
(b) pilot-testing contract pricing to increase flexibility in tariff setting; and (c) further
experimenting with passenger congestion pricing.
3.8       Labor Productivity Enhancement.  This component would help MOR
undertake measures to control the size of its workforce and boost labor productivity-by
reducing management overlap, increasing contract employment, linking capital budgeting
to human resources planning, transferring redundant staff to new diversified economy
companies and adopting new labor productivity and service-quality methods.
3.9       Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower, through MOR, will
carry out the PID components in accordance with action plans acceptable to the Bank
(para. 6.la, Annex 6).
D. INVESTMENTS FOR EXPANSION, MODERNIZATION AND REFORM
3.10      The proposed six investment components would finance equipment, materials
and TA for MOR to expand, modernize and reform the railway system. They have been
accorded top priority by MOR, either because of their economic returns or because of their
strategic importance to railway modernization. Their technical designs are based on results
of various technological studies under Railways IV and V. Indicators has been developed



- 16 -
for monitoring the effectiveness of the investment components (Annex 5). The components
are:
3.11      Expanding Corridor Capacity. Financing would be provided for electrifying
and upgrading the 1,044-km Wuhan-Guangzhou line (the last remaining section of the
Beijing-Guangzhou trunk line to be electrified and modernized). The line represents only
4 percent of the total network but carries 15 percent of total traffic. Traffic volumes have
been increasing at about 14 percent per year since 1990 compared to the railway's national
average of about 9 percent.
3.12      The proposed electrification and upgrading would enable the line to
accommodate longer and heavier trains, consistent with MOR's decision to raise the axle
load from 21 tons to 25 tons for its core network. Its main design features are: (a) 1,050-
meter siding lengths, (b) 25 kV/50 Hz electrification, (c) 110 kV power supply with
improvements to the related power supply and distribution system, (d) upgraded signaling
and telecommunication systems, (e) reconstructed bridges and tunnels, and (t) upgraded
maintenance depot shops. The technical design conforms with recommendations of the
Electrification Technology Study under Railways V.
3.13      The construction would produce economic benefits mainly as savings in rail
operating costs. It would also have environmental benefits, particularly as it would:
(a) eliminate the concentrations of particulates and carbon monoxide emitted by diesel
engines in built-up areas; and (b) reduce soil contamination caused by the spills of diesel
fuel and lube oil. The electric power would come mainly from large coal-burning plants,
and to a lesser extent from hydropower plants, which serve general users, of which the
railway use would represent less than 3 percent of total power consumption (Annex 8).
Because large thermal plants control pollution more efficiently and hydro plants create no
air pollution, the switch from diesel to electric locomotives would reduce net emissions of
air pollutants.
3.14      To allay the Bank's concern over shortages of electricity, SPC has written to
the Bank that power supply would be adequate for the electrified line, and that MOR
would have priority, if necessary.
3.15      Modernizing Information Systems.  Financing would be provided for
acquiring computer hardware, software and related TA needed for: (a) the first phase of
a computer-based management information system (MIS); (b) integrated TMIS for major
marshalling yards, subadministrations and administrations; (c) a pilot passenger
reservations system in one administration; and (d) management of funds under the treasury
functions. This technology would help railway managers make better-informed decisions
and improve railway operating efficiency and service quality.
3.16      Upgrading Telecommunications Systems. Financing would be provided for
acquiring telecommunications equipment and related TA, including fiber-optic cables and
digital microwave equipment, to enable MOR to expand and modernize the railway's trunk
transmission and data telecommunications networks. This would be part of the Bank's



- 17 -
ongoing effort to help MOR implement the railway's Telecommunications Master Plan.
Specifically, the component would provide financing for: (a) expanding and digitalizing
the railway's long-distance transmission network; (b) expanding the data communications
network; (c) developing a video conference network, with a terminal for each
subadministration; and (d) setting up a telecommunications network management system.
3.17      Commercializing Container Transport. Financing would be provided for
purchasing container transport and handling equipment (e.g., rubber-tired gantry cranes,
forklift container handlers, and highway tractors) and the TA and computer software
needed to modernize and commercialize rail-based container transport operations. MOR
would lease the equipment on commercial terms to at least two container transport
corporations, which are expected to be: (a) the Chinese Railway Container (CRC)
Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MOR; and (b) the SinoRails Intermodal Transport
(SIT) Company, a joint venture among MOR, China Ocean Shipping Group Company
(COSCO), and Sinotrans (a freight forwarder). Both corporations would be authorized to
operate on any railway route and serve both domestic and foreign traffic as long as line
capacity is available and the operations are profitable.
3.18      CRC and SIT would become prototypes of self-accounting enterprises that
provide interregional, specialized rail-based transport services on a commercial basis.
More specifically, the component would: (a) serve as pilot programs for MOR to test
various aspects of railway enterprise reform; and (b) offer landlocked provinces access to
international trade by providing them with fast and reliable transport service for high-value
products to major seaports.
3.19      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower, through MOR, will:
(a) select at least two container transport companies acceptable to the Bank to which the
container transport and handling equipment to be procured under the project shall be
leased, (b) employ consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank to assist it in the preparation of contractual agreements between
the Borrower and said container transport companies required for the leasing and
operation of said equipment on a commercial basis; (c) furnish said agreements to the Bank
promptly upon their preparation and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower thereon; (d) thereafter, take all measures required on its part to
conclude said agreements with said container transport companies, taking into account the
views of the Bank on the matter; and (e) ensure that no invitations to bid for contracts for
container transport and handling equipment included in the project shall be issued unless
and until the Borrower shall have concluded the agreements referred to in item (d) above
(para. 6.lb).
3.20      Enhancing Environmental Protection. Railway environmental protection has
historically received low priority because MOR has primarily focused on transportation.
However, it now recognizes that to protect the environment over the long term, it must
develop a comprehensive environmental strategy and strengthen its Environmental
Protection Bureau. This component would finance the TA and equipment for MOR to:
(a) undertake pilot programs to address pressing environmental problems; and



- 18 -
(b) strengthen the capabilities of its environmental staff. These initiatives are consistent
with the comprehensive long-term environmental strategy being prepared under Railways
VI.
3.21      The pilot programs would involve: (a) testing noise barriers along a rail line
traversing urban Beijing; (b) developing a solid waste management strategy for the
Shenyang station; (c) assessing techniques for cleaning up contaminated soil at the Taopu
freight yard; (d) treating oily wastewater at a locomotive depot; (e) upgrading the Beijing
Anti-Epidemic Center; (f) developing locomotive and factory noise abatement programs;
(g) training railway environmental staff in advanced environmental impact assessment
techniques; (h) developing a fuel additive for diesel locomotives to boost combustion and
reduce emissions; and (i) preparing an environmentally-sound strategy to dispose of more
than 1 million styrofoam lunch boxes per day.
3.22      Expanding System Capacity. This component would support MOR's initial
effort in its long-term plan to introduce heavy-haul operations-employing heavier trains
with a higher ratio of payload to tare weight-to the core network. Financing would be
provided for procuring three-phase AC electric locomotives, including equipment, tools,
spare parts and training, and securing heavy-haul expertise to help MOR raise the axle load
limit on the core network from 21 to 25 tons. The acquisition of these locomotives would
involve importing fully-assembled locomotives and transferring technology for locomotive
manufacture from a foreign locomotive builder to China (to be financed separately by
MOR). This transfer would be either to a joint-venture manufacturer or to one of China's
two electric locomotive works. The first use of AC electric locomotives would be on the
heavy-traffic, 269-km single-track section between Baoji and Yangpingguan. This section,
which is part of the Baoji-Chengdu main line, has gradients up to 3 percent.
3.23      The investment would reduce operating and maintenance costs and increase
throughput capacity of congested main lines through the use of more powerful electric
locomotives to pull the heavier freight trains. The investment would also contribute to
MOR's strategy to: (a) develop for eventual manufacture in China a new generation of
electric locomotives required on other electrified, high-volume main lines; and (b) upgrade
the quality of its locomotive manufacturing, which would be an element of a study
component under the proposed project.
3.24      The Borrower, through MOR, plans to implement the investment components
according to the implementation schedule given in Table 3.9.
E. STUDIES FOR MODERNIZATION AND REFORM
3.25      The following study components would provide MOR with the TA and
software needed to prepare future railway projects or to develop and apply new railway
technologies and management techniques.



- 19 -
3.26      Feasibility Study of Dedicated Passenger Rail. Foreign experts and training
of MOR staff would be provided for the purpose of: (a) forecasting ridership on the new
dedicated passenger rail line between Beijing and Shanghai and its competing modes;
(b) comparing the life-cycle costs of the dedicated passenger rail line with those of other
modes for different market segments; (c) assessing the economic, financial and technical
feasibility of the line; and (d) optimizing the line's engineering and operating parameters
(such as station spacings, train size, train speeds and operating patterns).
3.27      Application of the RIS Decision Support System. Expertise and computer
software would be provided for helping MOR: (a) refine the decision support system
developed under the Railway Investment Study (RIS) to make it more realistic; (b) develop
and apply a new, fast-response model to help MOR optimize railway investment programs
through 2005 under anticipated budget constraints (this would replace the existing trial-and-
error procedure); and (c) apply the RIS system to determine the economic priority of the
proposed dedicated passenger line relative to other major railway projects.
3.28      To strengthen the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on railway
investment planning, MOR plans to apply appropriate methodologies (including the RIS
system) and criteria to evaluate the proposed railway investments. The results of the
evaluation would be presented in a report to be discussed by MOR and the Bank at the
mid-term review. To make the review manageable, the evaluation would focus only on
a few most important questions, in particular, those related to the adequacy of the
investment programs for capacity expansion, maintenance and rehabilitation, and
technological upgrading.
3.29      Information Systems Studies. TA would be provided to MOR for conducting
studies to: (a) develop a marketing information system built on a systemwide waybill file;
(b) prepare plans for expanding TMIS beyond 1997; and (c) conduct feasibility studies for
new operating information systems, including one for locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance and a material stock control system.
3.30      Telecommunications Network Systems Study. MOR would receive TA and
training for undertaking a study on network management and optimization, to monitor the
performance and improve the reliability of the railway telecommunications network.
3.31      Diesel Engine Design.  Financing would be provided to MOR  for:
(a) acquiring the expertise needed to design high-efficiency, high-power, low-emissions
diesel engines for heavy-haul freight operations and higher-speed, higher-capacity
passenger services; and (b) importing the critical parts needed to develop a prototype
engine.
3.32      Restructuring the Railway's Manufacturing and Overhaul Sector. MOR
would obtain TA to prepare an action plan to restructure and modernize the railway
manufacture and overhaul sector. The restructuring part of the proposed TA would deal
with (a) rationalizing MOR's 35 factories into appropriate groups of companies, to strike
a better balance between specialization and competition; and (b) forming joint ventures to
transfer management expertise and manufacturing technologies to the railway. The



- 20 -
modernization part would deal with upgrading the quality of railway equipment
manufacturing to international standards.
3.33      Strengthening MOR's Treasury Functions. Foreign experts and training of
MOR staff would be provided for the purpose of: (a) strengthening its treasury functions,
and (b) establishing a framework for issuing railway bonds.
3.34      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower, through MOR, will
(a) undertake the studies summarized above according to action plans acceptable to the
Bank (Annex 7J, (b) exchange views with the Bank on the studies' recommendations; and
(c) implement the recommendations taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 6. 1c).
F. COST ESTIMATES
3.35      The project is estimated to cost $1.75 billion, including physical and price
contingencies (see Tables 3.1-3.8 and the cost summary table below). The foreign
exchange costs of the project are estimated at $619.9 million, representing about
35 percent of project costs. Base costs were originally estimated at January 1994 prices;
they have been adjusted to January 1995 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at
10 percent of the base costs of civil works and 5 percent of the base cost of equipment
(7 percent for the container transport component). Price contingencies were calculated
both for foreign and local costs according to Bank guidelines, for each year from 1995 to
2002, when expressed in US dollars: 1.5, 1.8, 2.6, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5, and 2.5 percent;
and when expressed in Yuan: 14.0, 10.5, 8.5, 7.0, 6.5, 6.2, 6.2, and 6.2 percent. The
exchange rate of Y 8.7 to the US dollar was used for converting foreign exchange costs.
MOR is currently exempt from import taxes, customs duties and local taxes, but will be
subject to import taxes from 1996 onward. Identifiable taxes and duties amount to about
$130 million equivalent. The costs of the goods financed under this project were estimated
on the basis of unit costs of similar equipment, machinery and materials procured in 1993.
The costs of TA and training were based on current average fees per month in China and
on current costs for travel and subsistence for foreign consultants.



- 21 -
COST SUMMARY
(January 1995 prices)
Formign
Y million                        S niullion             as % of    Bank loan
Local      Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total        total     (S milion)
Expandingcorridorcapacity       5,884.7    2,426.1    8,310.8       676.4    278.9        955.3    29.2          151.8
Modernizinginforaationsystemn     759.4    1,123.1    1,882.4        80.6    119.0        199.6    59.6           38.9
Upgrading teleconmunications      872.3      375.2     1,247.5       92.2      39.7       131.9    30.1           39.7
Commercializingcontainertranap. 1,199.1      249.4    1,448.5       126.8      26.3       153.1     17.2          26.3
Enhancing environmental protection  22.1      41.2        63.3        2.3       4.4         6.7    66.5            4.4
Expanding system capacity         272.6      804.5     1,077.1       31.3      92.5       123.8    74.7           92.5
Technical asistnce                  1.5       63.1        64.6        0.2       7.2         7.4    96.3            7.2
Subtotal                    9011.7    50826    140943    10098    568.0    1j77                 36.0         360.8
Physical contingencies/a          759.6      269.7     1,029.3       85.8      30.6       116.4    26.3           20.7
Baseline Estimate           9,771.3    5,352.3   15 123.6    1i0956    598.6         1 694.2    35.3         381.5
Price contingencies             2,030.7    1,248.3    3,279.0        32.0      21.3        53.3    39.9           18.5
Total /b                    11 802.0    6,600.6   18 402.6   1,127.6    619.9    1,747.5    35.5             400.0
/a Ten percent for civil work. and 5 percent for equipment.
/b From 1996 onward, MOR will not be exempt from import taxes, customi  duties and local taxes. Identifiable taxes and duties are
estinated at $130.1 nillion equivalent.
3.36            The accuracy of cost estimates for the proposed corridor expansion was
difficult to assess because the Bank received insufficient details on the goods and labor to
be funded domestically. To address the Bank's concern, MOR provided the Bank with
cost estimates for the preliminary and final designs, which differ by less than 3 percent.
G. FINANCING
3.37            A Bank loan of $400 million would be made to the People's Republic of
China, representing about 23 percent of total project costs and almost 65 percent of the
foreign costs. MOF would allocate the funds to MOR. MOR would cover the remaining
costs and, if needed, local cost overruns, including contingencies. MOR does not
capitalize interest expenses during construction, and interest expenses relating to
implementation would be covered by its operating revenues. MOF would allocate the loan
proceeds to MOR on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, with MOR bearing the
foreign exchange risk.



- 22 -
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ million equivalent)
Works Equipment Consultancies   Resettlement    Total
MOR                294.0   1,035.0         -              18.5      1,347.5
Bank loan             -       392.5        7.5             -          400.0
Total           294.Q    1,427.5       7 5            18 5       1.747.5
Foreign exchange      -       612.4        7.5             -          619.9
3.38      Implementation of the investment components depends on availability of
counterpart funds, which became an issue in 1993 when local funds originally allotted to
Railways VI were temporarily diverted to another project, thereby delaying Railways VI.
This implementation risk would be mitigated by MOF's newly issued policy that ensures
the availability of counterpart funds up front.
H. IMPLEMENTATioN AND RLsKs
3.39      MOR, through its Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office (FCTIO),
would be the executing agency responsible overall for implementing the project under
similar arrangements to those for the previous loans. Procurement of goods under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be handled by tendering companies
appointed by MOR. The acquisition of TA, training, computer software, and equipment
would be handled by MOR with consultants' help as needed.
3.40      Preparation of general, commercial and technical specifications has already
begun with the intention to complete the bidding process for procurement in 1995 and to
have contracts signed when the loan becomes effective. Implementation is expected to
spread over six years. The project would be completed by December 31, 2001 and closed
by December 31, 2002 (Table 3.9-Implementation Schedule).
3.41      The physical investments in the proposed project pose minimal risks in view
of the railway's past experience in implementing such components. The risks relate to the
policy reform component because of MOR's lack of familiarity with reform and its
dependence on endorsement from core government agencies in undertaking reform
initiatives. However, the Government and MOR are committed to reform, and are clearly
moving in the right direction. The risk would be reduced by a continuous dialogue among
MOR, other Govemment agencies, and the Bank on the substance and timing of reforms,
by funding TA and training for sector policy reform, and by intense Bank supervision of
the project. Additionally:



- 23 -
(a)  MOR has prepared action plans for the various technical assistance programs
under the proposed project; and
(b) the government agencies concerned, especially SPC, plan to give top priority
to supporting MOR in undertaking reform initiatives proposed under the
project.
I. PROCUREMENT
3.42      Except as noted, all Bank-financed goods would be procured under ICB,
according to the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
dated May 1992. The bidding documents would conform with model documents prepared
by the Government based on the Bank's standard bidding documents. Contracts worth
$200,000 or less each and totaling no more than $10 million may be purchased by either
local or international shopping, based on at least three quotations from potential suppliers.
Contracts valued at $500,000 or less each and totaling no more than $20 million may be
procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) according to procedures acceptable to the
Bank (see the procurement summary table below). Contracts for goods above the threshold
of $2 million would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. In bid evaluation
under ICB, Chinese manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin over the CIF
costs of competing imports equal to the lesser of 15 percent or customs duties and local
taxes MOR would have to pay (expressed as a percentage of the CIF costs).



- 24 -
PRtOCuREMENr SUMMARY La
(S million)
Total
Procurement method            project
Project component               ICB       LCB  OtherLk  NBFL&   cost
Works                             -       -        -    294.0   294.0
Equipment and machinery        1,297.5   20.0    110.0     -    1,427.5
(262.5)  (20.0)  (110.0)         (392.5)
Consultancies                     -       -        7.5     -        7.5
(7.5)           (7.5)
of which:
PID components                   -       -        0.6     -       0.6
(0.6)           (0.6)
Investment components            -       -        0.9     -       0.9
(0-9)           (0.9)
Study components                 -       -        6.0     -       6.0
(6.0)           (6.0)
Resettlement                      -       -        -      18.5    18.5
iQoal                      1.297.5   20       117.5   312.5  1.747.5
*262.5!  (20 0   (117.5)         (400.0)
La Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
lb  Includes Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB), local and intemational shopping, and
consultants' services.
& NBF = Not Bank-financed.
3.43     The three-phase AC locomotives for $100 million equivalent would be
procured by Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) from reputable electric locomotive
builders in the world. The bids would be evaluated on the basis of criteria that conform
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement dated May 1992; a margin of preference,
however, would not be applicable. Bidders would be requested to quote for transfer of
technology, although this would not be financed by the Bank. The bidding process would
be subject to the Bank's prior review.
3.44     Bank-financed consulting services would be provided by qualified consultants
appointed according to the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants dated August 1981.



- 25 -
The Bank's prior review would be required for all contracts over $100,000 for consulting
firms and $50,000 for individual consultants, all single-source contracts, and terms of
reference for all contracts.
3.45      Items not financed by the Bank-including civil works, miscellaneous local
materials and equipment-would be procured according to Chinese government procedures.
J. DISBURSEMENTS
3.46      Disbursements under Bank financing would be for: (a) 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for imported goods; (b) 100 percent of the local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) for goods purchased direct from factories; (c) 75 percent of the local
expenditures for other goods procured locally; and (d) 100 percent of the costs of services.
Domestic transport costs from the border, a port or factory would not be eligible for Bank
financing.
3.47      Disbursements against contracts for goods valued less than $2 million each,
consulting contracts valued less than $100,000 each for firms and $50,000 each for
individuals, and expenses on training and study tours would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
established with an authorized allocation of $20 million representing about four months of
expected expenditures on average. Replenishment would be made monthly or whenever
the Special Account is drawn down by 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. Documentation supporting Statements of Expenditure would not be submitted to the
Bank, but would be kept in MOR's project office in Beijing and made available for review
by the Bank's supervision missions.
3.48      Disbursement projections (Table 3.10) assume that the loan would become
effective by September 1, 1995 and be fully disbursed by December 31, 2002. The
projections are conservative with regard to the positive effects of advance procurement
arrangements.
K. MONrrORING, EvALUATION AND SUPERVISION
3.49      Monitoring. To monitor the progress and effectiveness of implementation,
MOR would provide the Bank with periodic reports during each year of project
implementation (beginning with the year after loan effectiveness) on:
(a)  Audits of the Project Accounts, the Special Account, the Statements of
Expenditure, and the consolidated financial statements for the railway, CRC
and SIT by end-June;
(b)  The status of implementation for each PID component with respect to the
target dates shown in Annex 6 by the end of June and December;



- 26 -
(c)  The status of implementation for each investment component as specified in
the implementation schedule (Table 3.9) by the end of April, July, October
and January;
(d)  The performance of each investment component relative to the indicators
described in Annex 5 during the period of operation by end-March;
(e)  The status of resettlement under the corridor expansion component by the end
of March;
(f)  The results of resettlement monitoring and evaluation and environmental
impact mitigation for the corridor expansion component by end-March.
3.50      Mid-term Review. Given the complexity of the project, agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Borrower, through MOR, will undertake, jointly with the
Bank, a mid-term review ofproject implementation no later than November 30, 1998 (para.
6.1d).
3.51      Supervision. Two Bank supervision missions per year are planned, but more
missions may be needed depending on implementation progress. Because of its size and
complexity, the project would require above-average supervision staff-weeks, especially
in the first two to three years of implementation involving the PID components. Over the
project's six-year implementation period, the supervision staff time is estimated to total
about 94 staff-weeks or average about 13 staff-weeks per year (Annex 10). This estimate
incorporates staff-week savings expected from combining the supervision of this and other
railway projects in China. MOR would submit a Project Completion Report to the Bank
six months after loan closing.
L. ENVIRONMENTAL IMACS AND RESETELEMENT
3.52      Envirommental Impacts.  This is a Category B project. The proposed
Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification and upgrading has an impact on resettlement; none of
the investment components would significantly harm the environment.  In fact, the
electrification would reduce air pollution and soil contamination by diesel fuel and lube oil.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower, through MOR, will carry out
the project according to health, safety, and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank
(Annex 8; para. 6. le). The pilot environmental protection programs would acquaint MOR
with up-to-date technologies and practices, and thereby help MOR develop a
comprehensive environmental action strategy for the railways (Annex8).
3.53      Resettlement. Under the proposed electrification, resettlement would result
from land acquisition along the Wuhan-Guangzhou line, to make land available for the
extension of stations, and the construction of substations and power supply depots. It
would affect about 13,200 individuals (4,300 due to housing demolition). No sites of
notable historical or cultural value are in or near the land to be acquired, nor are they



- 27 -
known to contain habitats of endangered species. MOR has submitted a resettlement plan
satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 9!.
3.54      While resettlement activities would be funded by MOR, the villages and
townships in rural areas and the city district government in urban areas would be
responsible for planning and implementing them. The local branches of the land
administration offices at the county level are charged with monitoring resettlement
activities to ensure they comply with the Land Management Law, and the State Audit
Agency is charged with auditing the use of resettlement funds. Experience under previous
railway projects has shown this arrangement to be satisfactory. To ensure a continuous
satisfactory resettlement process, MOR has contracted with the Social Sciences Research
Institute (SSRI) of Southwest Jiaotong University to monitor resettlement activities and
alert MOR to problems. MOR would make available to the Bank annual monitoring and
evaluation reports prepared by the university. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
the Borrower, through MOR, will ensure that land acquisition and resettlement will be
done according to a plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 6. le).



- 28 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISK ANALYSIS
OF PROJECT-FINANCED INVESTMENTS
A. INTRODUCTION
4.1       The following five investment components have undergone economic
evaluation:   expanding corridor capacity, upgrading telecommunications systems,
modernizing information systems, commercializing container transport, and expanding
system capacity. Monetary inputs and outputs used in the evaluations were obtained by
converting financial costs to economic costs using economic shadow prices and their
related conversion factors in two key areas. For local labor costs, a conversion factor to
account for the value of fringe benefits was applied to the amount associated with basic
wages. For locomotives and rolling stock, the analysis used a conversion factor based on
the nonsubsidized prices charged by MOR to third-party buyers.  Details on the
assumptions are in the Project File.
B. MAiN BENEFTs
4.2       The estimated net present values (NPV) and economic internal rates of return
(ERR) for each investment component are summarized in the table below (special attention
was devoted to avoiding double accounting both between and within component
categories). The table also indicates the NPVs for the five components in terms of three
major benefit categories:
(a)  By increasing throughput capacity, both the system  capacity expansion
component and the telecommunications component would facilitate the
production and distribution of new bulk and manufactured goods. As a
consequence, these components would produce value added to the economy.
(b)  Upgrading and electrifying the Wuhan-Guangzhou line (corridor capacity
expansion component) and handling more container traffic by rail rather than
road (container transport commercialization component) would reduce the cost
of transport services.
(c)  Improvements made possible by the telecommunications and information
systems components would enable MOR to make more efficient use of existing
rolling stock and fixed plant, thereby creating savings in capital investment
outlays.



- 29 -
NET PRESENT VALUE AND EcoNoMIc RATE OF RETuRN BY COMPONENT
(in Y million)
Type of Benefits              Value Added to  Reduction in the  Avoided Capital Total  ERR
the Economy  Cost of Transport  Investments   NPV   (%)
Component                      (% Benefits)     Services     (% Benefits)
(% Benefits)       _
Expand Corridor Capacity                         4,123           -        4,123  26.1%
(100%)
Modernize Infornation Systems       -                           4,042     4,042  42.2%
(100%)
Upgrade Telocommunications Systems  2,436         -             2,525     4,961  30.2%
(49.1%)                      (50.9%)
Commercialize Container Transport   -            956                        956  29.0%
(100%)
Expand System Capacity            3,714           22             -        3,736  20.5%
(99.4%)        (0.6%)
Total NPV                      6,149          5,101          6,567    17,818  26.7%
(34.5%)       (28.6%)        (36.9%)      _
4.3        Besides the benefits quantified above, several components-particularly the
expansion of system capacity and commercialization of container transport-would help
spur development of interior provinces by expanding transport services into these areas.
C. EXPANING CORRIDOR CAPACrrY
4.4         Over the next decade, rail freight demand on the Wuhan-Guangzhou corridor
is expected to grow substantially. By the year 2000, the line will be called upon to handle
more than 203 million tons-two thirds more than the 123 million tons transported in 1991.
In 2005, demand is anticipated to approach 245 million tons-a doubling of current levels.
Passenger traffic also is projected to expand rapidly: compared to the 29 billion pkm
handled by the line today, personal travel will increase 40 percent by the turn of the
century and 75 percent by 2005.
4.5        The Wuhan-Guangzhou line, as currently configured and operated, lacks the
capacity to handle all the contemplated growth in freight demand (as priority has been
given to passenger trains). Consequently, without the project, as least 15 percent of the
anticipated freight volume would need to be rerouted to the more circuitous and
nonelectrified Beijing-Jiulong rail line (for through traffic the Beijing-Jiulong route is
1,32'7 km compared to the 1,044 km of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line). In addition, without
this investment component, some of the projected Wuhan-Guangzhou freight traffic also
would be diverted to more costly road transport.
4.6        The benefits were estimated in terms of transport operating costs savings
attributable to the lower fuel and maintenance outlays made possible by shifting from diesel



- 30 -
to electric traction. These savings, in turn, relate to the passenger and freight traffic that,
without the project, would be moved over the Wuhan-Guangzhou line by diesel traction,
and to the freight traffic that would be redirected to the longer, diesel-operated Beijing-
Jiulong route. Because the unit costs of trucking in China are over 10 times higher than
comparable rail outlays, the diversion to trucks that would be avoided by this component
would produce further benefits. These savings are properly classified as reductions in
transport operating costs. Electricity was not shadow-priced to reflect shortages because
electricity for the line would not be taken from industry, but would be provided through
investment earmarked for expansion of power generation capacity.  Still, sensitivity
analysis showed that the project would still be economically justified even with the price
of electricity doubled.
4.7       Complementary investment costs are quantified as the difference between the
costs of the with- and without-project scenarios. The with-project scenario costs include
capital costs for a generating plant with the requisite capacity to supply the Wuhan-
Guangzhou line with electric power; the cost of maintaining the overhead catenary system;
the cost of new locomotives and rolling stock less the cost of comparable equipment that
would otherwise be required if diesel service continued; and the costs of population
resettlement. Under the without-project scenario, freight traffic would be diverted to the
Beijing-Jiulong route. To accommodate this traffic, certain fixed plant capital costs would
be incurred (e.g., the double tracking of the Xiangtang-Longchuan section at an earlier
date than now planned, and double tracking lines connecting the alternative route to both
Wuhan and Guangzhou). The resulting NPV discounted at 12 percent is Y 4.1 billion and
the ERR is 26.1 (Table 4.1).
D. MODERNIZING INFORMATION SYSTEMS
4.8       From the experience of railways in other countries, modernized information
systems produce significant investment savings. The Canadian National, for example,
attributes freight car savings of 3.4 percent annually to the introduction of information
systems. The consequences for British Rail-large gains in the utilization of rolling stock
-are similar. Acknowledging the large capital outlay contemplated by MOR, even
conservative estimates of improvement in plant and equipment efficiency stemming from
a better information system would yield relatively large savings. (The savings in plant and
equipment tabulated for this component are separate from and in addition to the capital
investment savings quantified for the telecommunications component.) The information
systems component is anticipated to yield an NPV of Y 4.0 billion and an ERR of
42.2 percent (Table 4.2).
E. UPGRADING TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
4.9       The expansion and modernization of MOR's telecommunications networks by
this component would make more productive use of existing capital assets. Thus, two
major types of benefits can be anticipated. First, better telecommunications would enable
MOR to improve car tumaround times and reduce the downtime for locomotive
maintenance. This, in turn, would raise the freight-hauling capacity of the system. This



- 31 -
is because an improved telecommunications system would allow freight wagons to be
dispatched more efficiently, and thereby enable the average wagon to make more trips.
When a wagon makes only one additional trip per year, its effective annual freight capacity
increases by 1.5 percent annually. Calculated on a systemwide basis, this amounts to
nearly 23 million tons in incremental freight capacity and associated benefits in the form
of value-added to the economy. At the same time, the more intensive use of existing plant
and equipment made possible by upgraded telecommunications also defers the need for new
capital expenditures, which MOR presently estimates at about Y 70 billion per year. Thus,
the gains in efficiency stemming from improved telecommunications would create
additional benefits by postponing the need for near-term capital investment outlays. The
NPV of this component is estimated at Y 5 billion and the ERR at 30.2 percent-a rate that
is well in line with other Bank-funded telecommunications projects. Not quantified here
are other benefits including higher worker productivity, greater service quality, and more
reliable communications (Table 4.3).
F. COMMRCIALIZING CONTAINER TRANSPORT
4.10      Following the pilot container transport project funded by the Bank under
Railways VI, this component would further enhance MOR's efforts at moving larger
quantities of higher-valued goods in containers. This merchandise is now handled either
by truck or rail in break-bulk form. For traffic diverted from trucks, economic benefits
stem from: (a) the much lower unit cost of container rail transport; and (b) the shorter trip
distances of rail compared with truck. Based on the lengths of haul for the five highest-
volume rail container routes in service today (Shanghai-Xian, Shanghai-Tianjin,
Guangzhou-Zhengzhou, Beijing-Guangzhou, and Guangzhou-Wuhan), the long-run variable
cost of transporting goods by rail is nearly Y 860 per ton less than the comparable cost via
truck. For traffic diverted from break-bulk rail service, savings in handling costs are
estimated by MOR at Y 106 per ton. The resulting NPV of this investment is Y 956
million and the ERR is 29.0 percent (Table 4.4).
G. EXPANDING SYSrEM CAPACrrY
4.11      While they would eventually be used systemwide, three-phase AC electric
locomotives would be deployed first on the mountainous Baoji-Chengdu route in western
China. At present, this line-utilizing standard SS4 electric locomotives-operates at
capacity and cannot sustain any growth in freight volume. By comparison, the AC units
can haul about 20 percent more than the SS4s. Further, due to their greater power, higher
speed and more effective braking systems, the AC units permit more trains to be run over
the line than do the SS4 units. Taken together, these capacity-enhancing features of the
AC locomotives would greatly increase the amount of traffic that can be carried over the
route, from 20.2 million tons today to 37 million tons-a gain of 78 percent.
4.12      Given this increase, the project would foster the production and consumption
of new products that would result in value-added benefits to the economy (especially in the
interior western region). These benefits have been calculated based on the anticipated
yearly growth in incremental traffic using a methodology for valuing induced traffic.



- 32 -
Further, compared to the SS4s, the AC units are expected to cost less to maintain and have
a much lower failure rate. Consequently, benefits in the form of annual operating savings
of about 16 percent per year also are anticipated.
4.13      MOR proposes to import 32 locomotives over the three-year period 1997-99.
In calculating the economic costs of this component, a unit price representing the average
of initial quotations already obtained by MOR has been employed. Since the locomotives
are to be manufactured and assembled abroad, there are no pertinent local costs. The
initial quotations also include a three-year spare parts guarantee; accordingly, it is not
necessary to specify this cost element separately until 1999. Finally, an allowance for
tools, instruments, and training is included as a part of the total project investment.
Because import duties and value added taxes are not regarded as economic costs, they have
been excluded from this analysis. Including the complementary costs for expanding mine
and factory capacity needed to produce the incremental traffic, the NPV of this component
is estimated at Y 3.7 billion and the ERR at 20.5 percent of the incremental investment of
replacing SS4s with new locomotives (Table 4.5).
H. OVERALL EVALUATION AND RISK ANALYSIS
4.14      As summarized in the table above, each of the components has an ERR of at
least 20 percent and taken together, all components as a group yield an overall ERR of
26.7 percent. The NPVs of most components exceed Y 3.7 billion (the NPV of the
comparatively lower-cost container transport component amounts to almost Y 1.0 billion).
The investments would expand rail capacity and thereby create more value added of goods
and services-particularly in the interior provinces. Moreover, the more efficient rail
service afforded by these investments would produce additional benefits in the form of
lower capital outlays and reduced transport operating expenses. Therefore, the proposed
investment is well justified.
4.15      Execution of the investment components would entail certain risks. Several
of the components-the AC locomotives, information systems and telecommunications-
involve newer technologies. As such, they are subject to delays in procurement and
implementation that could retard the flow of expected benefits. By contrast, with respect
to the Wuhan-Guangzhou corridor capacity expansion component, the technologies are well
known to MOR. One concern, though, pertains to the failure rate of electric catenary
systems and whether MOR's statement of electric locomotive operating expenses fully
reflects these outlays. To compensate for possible shortfalls, an additional complementary
cost for catenary maintenance is included in the economic analysis. The risks and potential
benefits of the container transport component largely depend on the pricing and logistics
policies adopted by CRC and SIT. Rates that adequately cover rail long-run variable costs
and properly take into account the pricing and service offerings of trucks should succeed
in diverting substantial volumes of higher-value traffic from trucks. At the same time,
however, unreliable and erratic rail delivery schedules would fail to attract the desired
business, while below-cost rail tariffs would yield unacceptable losses.



- 33 -
4.16        To assess the above-mentioned risks, two separate sensitivity analyses were
conducted on each of the investment components. First, the economic cost (including all
complementary costs) of each component was increased by 20 percent. Second, the total
value of all economic benefits associated with each component was reduced by 20 percent.
In no case did any of these tests reduce the ERR to less than 15 percent. The results of
both sensitivity tests, along with the base-case values, are presented in the table below.
RESULTS OF SENsrnrPv ANALYSIS
(Y million)
Increase in   Decrease in Benefits
Base Case    Investment Costs
COMPONENT                              NPV              NPV               NPV
(ERR %)          (ERR %)           (ERR %)
Expand Corridor Capacity               4,123            3,561             2,752
(26.1%)          (23.1)            (22.4%)
Modernize Information Systems          4,042            3,793             2,984
(42.2%)          (37.7%)           (36.7%)
Upgrade Telecommunications Systems     4,961            3,239             2.247
(30.2%)          (21.9%)           (20.2%)
Commercialize Container Transport      956              746                555
(29.0%)          (23.6%)           (22.5%)
Expand System Capacity                 3,736            2,199              1,451
________________________________  (20.5%)        (16.2%)           (15.4%)



- 34 -
5. FINANCIL VIBILITY OF
RAILWAY TRANSPORT OPERATION
A. INTRODUCTION
5.1       Since entering into an economic contract with the Government in 1986, MOR
has been financing all of its operating and capital expenditures through internally generated
funds and borrowings. This chapter examines the past and present financial performance
(1988-94) of the railway's transport operation (comprising the 12 regional administrations
but not including the diversified economy companies) and forecasts its future financial
performance (1995-2000).
B. PAS  FINANCL PERFR NCE
5.2       By Government decree, gross revenue from the railway's transport operation
is divided into two parts: the first is from base tariffs, which covers operating expenses
and contributes to the net income of the railway's transport operation; the second comes
from a Railway Construction Fund freight surcharge earmarked for capital investments and
cannot be used to meet operating expenses. This separation has served the Government's
effort to control operating costs. Adjustments of the base tariffs and freight surcharge
require SPC/State Council approval, which limits MOR's flexibility in setting tariffs.
5.3       During 1988-92, the railway was profitable, although an increasing operating
ratio since 1990 indicates that base tariffs did not keep pace with inflation and the complete
phasing out of input subsidies. Since 1988, operating costs per ctkm escalated 99 percent,
while revenues grew only 70 percent (the latter exclude freight surcharge revenues
earmarked for capital investments). From 1992-93, the cost of previously subsidized
inputs such as electricity, energy and materials increased 77, 58 and 41 percent,
respectively. Nonoperating expenses (i.e., interest) also grew 75 percent during this time
due to more borrowing for capital investment and to the phasing out of interest subsidies
by the Government. At the same time, the freight surcharge increased from 0.2 fen/tkm
in 1991 to 2.7 fen/tkm in 1993.
5.4       When it was introduced in 1991, the Railway Construction Fund was not
leveraged, i.e., funds had to be used 'yuan for yuan' for capital investments. However,
starting in 1993, the fund could be used to pay the interest on debt incurred for these
investments, and the railway showed a net loss of Y 0.7 billion in 1993 (after paying Y 3.2
billion interest from surcharge revenues). Had the surcharge revenues been included with
base tariff revenues, the railways would have shown a profit of Y 20.4 billion in 1993 (see
the table below).



- 35 -
ACTUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES, 1988-93
(Y million, in current prices)
/a         /a         Annual
1988       1989         1990        1991       1992        1993         Growth
OveratineRevenue                       28 062     31607        41.105      46.704     56.471      80.294          23%
of which surcharge revenue                 -          -            -      1,996       8,604      24,347            -
Operating Expenses                     20.272     24 982       27.807      32 509     35 811      47 641          19%
Operatine Income                        72790      6.625       13.298      14 195     20 660      32653           33 %
Net Income /b                           6,414      3,558        7,370       7,630      10,626     20,385          26%
of which:
Inc./(loss) from trpt oper. /c         4,952       2,258       5,870       4,111       3,907        (734)          -
TransfertoRwyConstr. Fund/d                -           -            -      1,889       6,719     21,119
Transfer to Special Fund               1,462       1,300        1,500      1,630           -           -           -
Workinz Ratio (%) /e                       60         67           57          59         64          75
Operating Ratio (%) /f                     72         79           68          70         75          85
Unit operating revenue /e                2.14       2.36         3.14        3.28        3.29       3.63        70% incr.
(fenlctkm)                                                                                                    aince 1988
Unit operating expense                   1.55        1.86        2.13        2.39       2.46        3.09        99% incr.
(fen/ctkm)                                                                                                    since 1988
/a 1992-93 operating expenses and income are not directly comparable to previous years due to changes in the accounting
guidelines.
/b Operating income less net nonoperating expenses, interest and taxes.
/c Capital Construction Fund under old accounting guidelines, i.e., balance of net income after allocations to the Railway
Construction Fund and the Special Fund (which was eliminated under new accounting guidelines).
/d Revenues from the freight surcharge less business taxes (and less interest expense in 1992 and 1993).
/e Operating expenses, less depreciation, expreswed as a percentage of operating revenue less surcharge revenue.
If Operating expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenue leu surcharge revenue.
/g Operating revenue from base tariffs Ci.e., excluding freight surcharge revenue).
C. PRESENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.5             MOR projects (based on unaudited figures) an operating ratio approaching
100 percent and a loss of Y 2.9 billion (based on base tariffs and after paying Y 6.5 billion
interest from surcharge revenues) in 1994. If freight surcharge revenues were treated as
fungible with base tariff revenues, MOR would project a profit of about Y 26.0 billion.
MOR is now in a situation that it has funds to build new railway lines, but is having
trouble maintaining the railway's physical assets and replenishing pension and welfare
funds because of the segregation of base tariff and freight surcharge revenues. Protracted
deferment of maintenance could impair the safety of railway operations, especially by
heightening the risk of derailments.
5.6             As to  financial self-sufficiency  (see definition  in  table in para. 5.14), MOR
projects that the railway will internally generate 67 percent (compared to 75 percent in
1993) of average capital investments including equipment replacements, other than normal
repairs and maintenance. The decline is due to higher capital investments (Y 45.0 billion



- 36 -
in 1994 compared to Y 40.0 billion in 1993) and to the absence of across-the-board tariff
increases in 1994 [i.e., in 1994, only selective tariff increases (see para. 5.8) compared
to an across-the-board freight surcharge increase in 1993 took place].
5.7       The self-financing ratio in the railways is relatively high because 80 to close
to 100 percent of internally generated funds is from freight surcharge revenues that are
earmarked for capital investments. The remainder of the internally generated funds are
noncash expenses (i.e., depreciation) and the difference between base tariff and operating
(excluding depreciation) and nonoperating expenses.
5.8       MOR is trying to sustain the railway's profitability (i.e., the excess of book
tariff revenues over expenses) by containing costs, raising productivity, and proposing
tariff hikes. With regard to freight, MOR initiated in 1993 a "new line, new tariff" policy
to achieve full cost recovery for newly built lines. Applying the policy to the new Daqin,
Lanwu and Zhenwu lines raised the average base freight tariff from 2.7 fen/tkm in 1992
to 2.9 fen/tkm in 1993 (a 6.7 percent increase). With regard to passenger traffic, two new
policies were introduced. First, a "higher price for higher-quality service" policy was
applied to 12 pairs of passenger trains in 1993 and to 26 train pairs in 1994. Second,
passenger tariffs were raised in Guangdong province during peak demand periods. These
measures increased the average passenger fare from 4.4 fen/pkm in 1992 to 4.6 fen/pkm
in 1993 (a 3.4 percent increase). Still, these initiatives were insufficient to keep the
railway profitable (excluding freight surcharge revenues) in 1994.
5.9       To restore profitability, MOR has proposed to SPC a cost-index methodology
for justifying future tariff adjustments. In addition, MOR has developed a costing model.
Once data are available, the costing model will have the capability to track specific point-
to-point costs that, combined with a centralized waybill file (to be developed along with
management information systems), can calculate revenues and costs for the origin-
destination movements of major commodities, and thus, determine profitable and loss-
making lines and traffic categories. MOR is also preparing a plan in which concrete
measures for reductions of operating costs over the next two to three years would be set
forth.
D. FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE: BASE CASE
5.10      The base case reflects the most likely increases in base tariffs and freight
surcharge from 1995 to 1997 and MOR's proposed capital investments from 1995 to 2000.
In the base case and all scenarios (except the medium scenario, which assumes a surcharge
increase in 1998), under the sensitivity analysis, it was assumed that no tariff increases
would take place from 1998 to 2000. This approach was taken because discussions with
the client on tariff increases beyond 1997 were inconclusive. Key assumptions for the base
case financial projections for 1995-2000 are given below. Detailed financial assumptions
are in the Project File.
(a)  A capital investment program of Y 61 billion in 1995 and Y 418 billion from
1996 to 2000 (including Y 350 billion of new investments and Y 68 billion of



- 37 -
equipment replacement) based on a real GNP growth rate of 8 to 9 percent,
which corresponds to a combined freight and passenger traffic (ctkm) growth
rate of 6.6 percent per year;
(b)  About 50 percent of the capital investment plan to be implemented in 1995-97
and the remaining 50 percent in 1998-2000;
(c)  An increase in average passenger fares from 4.77 fen/pkm to 6.77 fen/pkm
in 1995 (about 42 percent increase);
(d)  An increase in average base freight tariffs from 2.85 to 4.35 fen/tkm in 1996
(about 53 percent increase);
(e)  An increase in the freight surcharge from 2.7 to 4.2 fen/tkm in 1997 (about
57 percent increase).
5.11      For 1995, MOR estimates a loss of Y 4.4 million; after a brief recovery in
1996 to 1998 (due to projected tariff increases in 1995, 1996 and 1997), it projects losses
in 1999 and 2000 because no tariff increases were assumed beyond 1997 (see para. 5.10)
(see table below). The operating ratio (net of freight surcharge revenue) approaches
100 percent in 1995, recovers to 82 percent in 1996, but deteriorates to 98 percent by
2000. Aside from the projected loss/profit, MOR would have net surcharge revenues
ranging from a low of about Y 29 billion in 1995 to a high of about Y 62 billion in 2000.
The surcharge revenues are net of interest; since 1993 SPC and MOF have allowed MOR,
on a year-to-year basis, to use surcharge revenues to cover some nonoperational expenses.
Thus, a first step has been set in the direction of fungibility of revenue sources. If
surcharge revenues were fungible in their entirety, the net result would be a profitable
MOR (see table below). The self-financing ratio is projected at 67 percent in 1994 (based
on unaudited figures), 52 percent in 1995, 63 percent in 1996 and over 80 percent from
1997 to 1999.
E. SENsrnwvr ANALYSIS
5.12      The ability of the railway to increase the base tariffs and freight surcharge is
crucial to the upkeep of its infrastructure, the welfare of its workforce, and the realization
of its capital investment program. Two scenarios, a low and high case, are examined in
comparison with the base case, where the low case implies no tariff increases for the
period forecast and the high case implies the full tariff increases as proposed to the State
Council in June 1994. In addition, a medium case is tested to determine the implications
of delaying all tariff increases, assumed in the base case, by one year. The purpose is to
evaluate the implications for: (a) the level of the self-financing ratio, (b) the amount to
be borrowed, and (c) coverage of debt service. The detailed financial results under each
of the scenarios are in the Project File.
5.13      The results are given in the table below. The low-case scenarios assume no
tariff increases from 1995 to 2000 and can be rejected because it implies that MOR either



- 38 -
FoREcAST OF REVENUES AND ExPENSES, 1994-2000: BASE CASE
(Y million, in current prices)
Annual
1994       1995       1996        1997      1998       1999        2000       Growth
Oneratinr Revenue                92.328    104.637   130,.533    161,033   171.977   184.063    197.520           14
of which:
Surcharge Revenue              33,507      35,181    36,450      60,900    65,100    70,140       75,600         15%
OperatingExpenses                57.146     68489    77475         86935    97.103   107.747    119.112           13%
Oeratinir  come                  35.182     36.14 7    5           7          74.874    76.36       78408         14%
Net Inco le/a                    25981       24.294    36.928      55.147    55.922    56.089       56.           14%
of which:
Inc./(loo) from trpt oper. /b   (2,911)    (4,355)     9,907       6,324      2,489    (1,549)    (5,381)          -
Net tanafer to Railway
Construction Fund /c           28,893      28,649    27,021      48,823    53,433    57,638        62,089        14%
Workine Ratio (%) Id                 86          87        72          75         78        81          83
Ooerating Ratio (%) /e               97         99         82          87         91        95          98
Unit operating revenueIf           3.67        4.13      5.32        5.30       5.29      5.27        5.26     43% incr.
(fenlctkm)                                                                                                    since 1994
Unit operting expense              3.57        4.07      4.38        4.60       4.81      4.99        5.13      44% incr.
(fen/ctkzn)                                                                                                   since 1994
/a    Operating income less net nonoperting expenses, interest and taxes.
/b    Reflects net income after taxes but excludes interest and freight surcharge revenue.
/c    Revenues collected from the freight surcharge les businew taxes and interest.
a     Operatung expenses, les depreciation, expresed as a percentage of operating revenue less surcharge revenue.
/e Operating expenses expresed as a percentage of operating revenue from base tariffs only.
Tf Operating revenue from base tariffs (i.e., excluding freight surcharge revenue).
has to: (a) reduce its capital investments by almost 15 percent in 1995 and by over
70 percent during the 1996 to 2000 period; or (b) borrow substantial amounts to implement
its investment plan in 1995 to 2000, and run its operations from 1995 onward. Option (a)
is contradictory to a national investment policy to increase investments in transport; option
(b) is infeasible because MOR could not service its debt from 1997 onward. Both low-case
scenarios result in increasing operating losses (due to base tariffs and freight revenues not
being  fungible), evidenced  by an operating ratio of 111 percent in  1995, deteriorating to
141 percent by 2000.
5.14            The high-case scenario assumes that the railway receives approval for the full
tariff increase as submitted to the State Council in June 1994: average base freight tariffs
increase in 1996 from 2.85 fen to 5.55 fen per tkm, while increases in passenger tariffs
and surcharges remain the same as under the base case. In addition, the 1996 to 2000
capital investment program is assumed to increase by Y 50 billion to reflect the high end
of the Y 350-400 planning range. The high case should also be rejected because it
assumes that the proposals MOR submitted to SPC in June 1994 for increases in freight
tariffs, freight surcharge and passenger rates would be approved in their entirety with



- 39 -
SENsrnvyrY ANALYSIS-KEY RATIOs, 1994-2000
1994    1995      1996     1997    1998       1999    2000
Base Case, Railway's current plans
Operating Ratio, %  /a                                        97       99       82       87        91       95      98
Self-Financing Ratio, % /b                                    67       52       63       82        84       84        -
Debt Service Coverage c                                      2.9      3.4      3.4       3.3      4.2      4.5      4.7
Low Case (1). no tariff increases, reduction in capital
investment
Operating Ratio, %                                            97      111      1is      125       131      136     141
Self-Financing Ratio, %                                       71       50       43       42        52       50        -
Debt Service Coverage                                        2.9      2.3       1.7      1.1      1.4      1.4      1.3
Low Case (21. no tariff increases, increase in borrowines
Operating Ratio, %                                            97      111      118      125       131      136     141
Self-Financing Ratio, %                                       67       40       25        14        6       -4        -
Debt Service Coverage                                        2.9      2.8       1.5      0.7      0.6      0.4      0.3
HiMh Case. full tariff increases and increase cavital
investment to high range
Operating Ratio, %                                            97       99       70       74        77       80      83
Self-Financing Ratio, %                                       67       52       76       93        91       89        -
Debt Service Coverage                                        2.9      3.4      4.0       3.8      5.0      5.4     5.7
Medium Case, delay each tariff increase by one year.
increase borrowings
Operating Ratio, %                                            97      111      105       37        91       95      93
Self-Financing Ratio, %                                       67       40       36       52        77       77        -
Debt Service Coverage                                        2.9      2.3       1.9      1.7      2.4      2.8     3.0
/a Operating expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenue. Freight surcharge revenues are not included in this percentage.
/b Defined as internal cash generation (including net revenue lou, railway surcharge revenues and depreciation) as a percent of the
average capital investment and equipment replacenent in years (x-1), x and (x+ 1).
/c Defined as inconme after taxes plus interest and depreciation divided by interest and repayment on long-term to be paid in the same
year.
regard to timing and level of increase. Based on experience since 1990, this is unlikely
to happen.
5.15             The medium-case scenario assumes a one-year delay in tariff increases, i.e.,
average passenger tariffs increase by 2 fen/pkm in 1996, average base freight tariffs
increase by 2.7 fen/tkm in 1997, and the freight surcharge increases by 1.5 fen/tkm in
1998. As a result of decreased revenues, MOR would need to mobilize Y 97 billion in
additional borrowings during 1995 to 2000 to maintain positive cash flow. The loss in
1995 would increase from Y 4 to Y 12 billion and a loss of Y 9 billion would be incurred
in 1996. MOR would become profitable in 1997. Including surcharge revenues, MOR
would be profitable in each year from 1995 to 2000.
F. CONCLUSIONS
5.16            The base case is the most desirable scenario because it limits the period of
transitional losses (the latter not including surcharge revenues). The low case is a worst-
case scenario because it would either not enable the railways to carry out the much-needed



- 40 -
capital investments, or it would result in a nonviable railways from 1999 if it borrows the
funds needed to implement the capital investments program. The medium case represents
a possible altemative to the base case. It is less desirable because it lengthens the period
of transitional losses by one year.
5.17      To effectively serve an increasingly market-driven economy, the railway
requires, among other things, to increase its base tariffs by at least an amount that would
allow it to phase out its transitional losses. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
the Borrower, through MOR, will produce or cause to be produced in respect of MOR's
railway transport operations, for each of its fiscal years, finds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than the following percentage of the annual average of the capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year
and the next followingfiscal year: (a) for itsfiscal year ending on December 31, 1995 and
its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996: 50 percent; and (b) for each of its fiscal
years thereafter: 55 percent (para. 6. 1f).



- 41 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that it, through
MOR, will:
(a)  Implement the PID components of railway enterprise reform, railway tariff
reform, and labor productivity according to action plans acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.9);
(b)  (i) select at least two container transport companies acceptable to the Bank to
which the container transport and handling equipment to be procured under the
project shall be leased; (ii) employ consultants with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank to assist it in the
preparation of contractual agreements between the Borrower and said container
transport companies required for the leasing and operation of said equipment
on a commercial basis; (iii) furnish said agreements to the Bank promptly
upon their preparation and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower thereon; (iv) thereafter, take all measures
required on its part to conclude said agreements with said container transport
companies, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter; and
(v) ensure that no invitations to bid for contracts for container transport and
handling equipment included in the project shall be issued unless and until the
Borrower shall have concluded the agreements referred to in item (iv) above
(para. 3.19);
(c)  Carry out the study components of (i) dedicated passenger rail feasibility,
(ii) application of the RIS decision-support system, (iii) railway information
systems development, (iv) railway telecommunications systems management,
(v) diesel engine design, (vi) strengthening of MOR's treasury functions, and
(vii) restructuring the railway's manufacturing sector, according to action
plans acceptable to the Bank; then, exchange views with the Bank on the
studies' recommendations; and, finally, implement the recommendations,
taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 3.34);
(d)  Undertake, jointly with the Bank, a mid-term review of project implementation
no later than November 30, 1998 (para. 3.50);
(e)  Ensure that (i) the project will be implemented according to health, safety, and
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank and (ii) the resettlement of
people affected by the corridor expansion component will be carried out
according to the plans acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.52, 3.54); and



- 42 -
(f)  Produce or cause to be produced in respect of MOR's railway transport
operations, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent
to not less than the following percentage of the annual average of the capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous
fiscal year and the next following fiscal year: (i) for its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1995 and its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996:
50 percent; and (ii) for each of its fiscal years thereafter: 55 percent (para.
5.17).
6.2        Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a loan of $400
million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



Table 1.1: FREIGHT TRAFFIC INTENSnTIES AND ROAD AND RAELWAY NETwoRK DENSrTy IN SELEcTED CouNTRIEs
Country   Country Area    Tons Originated/a    Ton-km/a          Average        Estimated GNP    Tons/$1,000   Ton-km/$ GNP
Name    (million kn2)        (millions)         (billions)    Distance (i)/a      ($ billion)      of GNP
China         9.6              10,347            2,018              195               546            18.9             3.7
Russia       17.1             21,147             3,766              178               374           56.5             10.1
USA           9.4              6,938             5,259             758              5,935            1.2              0.9
India         3.3               1,043             634              608                274            3.8              2.3
Brazil        8.5               1,210             507              419                426            2.8              1.2
Japan         0.4              6,919               559               81              3,510           2.0              0.2
/a Includes rail, highway, inland waterway, pipeline, and air freight only.
RoAD AND RAILWAY NETWORK DENsmY IN SELEcTED CouNTRIES
Country      Population       Area        Rail Length          Rail Density          Road Length           Road Densitv
Name          (million)    (million km2)   ('000 km)     kn/'000 pop   km/'000 kmZ    ('000 ki)     km/'000 pop   km/'000 km
China          1,162           9.6            53.6          0.05            5.6         1,057            0.9          110.5
Russsia          149          17.1            87.2          0.59            5.1           879            5.9           51.5
USA             255            9.4           270.3           1.06          28.8         6,366           24.9         679.1
India            884           3.3            62.5          0.07           19.0         1,970            2.2         599.1
Brazil           154           8.5            28.8          0.19            3.4         1,662           10.8          195.2
Japan            125           0.4            27.3           0.22          72.3         1,112            8.9        2,941.7
Sources:   China:         Statistical Yearbook of China 1993 (Data for 1992), pp 460-68.
Russia:        "The Former Soviet Union in Transition," vol. 2-Study papers submitted to the Joint Economic Committee, Congress
of United States, February 1993, p. 1162. Jane Holt: 'Transport Strategies for the Russian Federation," World Bank,
1993, Chapter 1 (1992 data).
USA:            World Faabook 1992 (Central Intelligence Agency), pp 358-9; World Road Statistics 1988-93 (International Road
Federation) (data for 1991). National Transportation Statistics: Annual Report, June 1992, pp 54, 105; ENO
Transportation Foundation: Transportation in America, PP 44-46.
India:         Indian Railways Ycarbook-1992-93, p. I 1;  cIndia:  Transport Sector Long-Term Issues, " Internal Document no.
13192-IN, Annex 1 (data for 1992).
Brzil:          World Road Statistics 1988-1992, International Road Federation, 1993, Section V; Kessides,I:  Brazilian Railroad
Industry: Options for Organizational Restructuring, p 41 (data for 1991).
Japan:          World Road Statistics 1988-1992, International Road Federation, 1993, Section V (data for 1991).
Area & GNP:    World Bank: The World Development Report 1994, pp 162-3 (GNP in 1992 US dollars).
Population:     World Bank: The World Development Report 1994, pp 162-3.



- 44 -
Table 1.2: FREIGHT TRAmC BY MODE
(in billion ton-km)
Domestic  Pipe-     Civil              Ocean
Rail    Road  waterwayLa  line    aviation   Total    Shipping
1952                   60.2    1.4      11.8      -       0.002      73.4      2.8
Modal split (X)        2.0   16.0       -        -      18.0         -
1977                  456.9   25.1    102.1      38.7    0.076      622.9   174.1
Modal split (9)       73.4    4.0      16.4      6.2     -         100.0      -
1979                  559.9   74.5    139.3      47.6    0.123      821.4   317.1
1980                  571.7   76.4    152.1      49.1    0.141      849.4   353.2
1981                  571.2   78.0    150.7      49.9    0.170      850.0   364.3
1982                  612.0   94.9    170.8      50.1    0.198      928.0   376.9
1983                  664.7  108.4    181.1      53.4    0.229    1,007.7   397.7
1984                  724.8  153.6    196.1      57.2    0.311    1,132.0   437.4
1985                  812.6  169.3    237.1      60.3    0.415    1,279.7   532.9
1986                  876.5  211.8    270.0      61.2    0.481    1,419.9   594.8
1987                  947.1  266.0    288.9      62.5    0.650    1,565.2   657.6
1988                  987.8  322.0    310.4      65.0    0.730    1,686.0   696.6
1989                1,039.4  337.5    349.8      62.9    0.690    1,790.2   768.9
1990                1,062.2  335.8    345.1      62.7    0.820    1,806.6   814.1
1991                1,097.2  342.8    396.5      62.1    1.010    1,899.6   899.0
1992                1,157.6  375.5    422.2      61.7    1.342    2,018.4   903.4
1993                1,195.5  407.0    472.6      60.8    1.661    2,137.6   913.4
Modal split (%)       55.9   19.0      22.1      2.8    0.1        100.0
Growth rate % 1.a.
1952 - 77               8.4   12.1       9.0      -      15.7         8.9    18.0
1983 - 84               9.0   41.7       8.3      7.1   35.8         12.3    10.0
1984 - 85              12.1   10.2      20.9      5.4   33.4         13.0    21.8
1985 - 86               7.9   25.1      13.9      1.5   15.9         11.0    11.6
1986 - 87               8.1   25.6       7.0      2.1   35.1         10.2    10.6
1987 - 88               4.3   21.0       7.5      4.0   12.3          7.7      5.9
1988 - 89               5.2    4.8      12.7     (3.2)   (5.5)        6.2    10.4
1989 - 90               2.2   (0.5)    (1.3)    (0.3)   18.8          0.9      5.9
1990 - 91               3.3    2.1      14.9     (1.0)   23.2         5.1    10.4
1991 - 92               5.5    9.6       6.5     (0.6)   32.9         6.3      0.5
1992 - 93               3.3    8.4      11.9     (1.5)   23.8         5.9      1.1
1982 - 93               6.3    14.2      9.7      1.8   21.3          7.9      8.4
L/ Excludes oceangoing trnsprt from 1979 to 1993; includes oceangoing trasport in 1994.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China-1994, Table 14-7, p. 461.



- 45 -
Table 1.3: PASSENGER TRAFFC BY MODE
(in billion passenger-km)
Civil
Rail        Road      Waterway       Aviation      Total
1952                      20.1        2.3          2.5           0.024        24.8
Modal split(X)          80.9        9.1          9.9            0.1         100.0
1977                     102.3       44.8          9.7            1.834      158.7
Modal split (X)         64.5        28.2         6.1            1.2         100.0
1979                     121.6       60.3         11.4           3.5         196.8
1980                     138.3       73.0         12.9           4.0         228.1
1981                     147.3       83.9         13.8           5.0         250.0
1982                     157.5       96.4         14.5           6.0         274.3
1983                     177.7      110.6         15.4           5.9         309.5
1984                     204.6      133.7         15.4            8.4        362.1
1985                     241.6      172.5         17.9           11.7        443.7
1986                     258.7      198.2         18.2           14.6        489.7
1987                     284.3      219.0         19.6           18.7        541.6
1988                     326.0      252.8         20.4          21.4         620.7
1989                     303.7      266.2         18.8           18.7        607.5
1990                     261.3      262.0         16.5           23.0        562.8
1991                     282.8      287.2         17.7          30.1         617.8
1992                     315.2      319.3         19.8          40.6         694.9
1993                     348.3      370.1         19.6          47.8         785.8
Modal split (%)         44.3        47.1         2.5            6.1         100.0
Growth rate % g.a.
1952 - 77                  6.7       12.7          5.7           18.9          7.7
1983 - 84                 15.2       20.9          0.0          41.6          17.0
1984 - 85                 18.1       29.0         16.1          40.1          22.5
1985 - 86                  7.1       14.9          1.9          25.1          10.4
1986 - 87                 9.9        10.5          7.6          27.8          10.6
1987 - 88                 14.7       15.4          4.1           14.7         14.6
1988 - 89                 (6.8)       5.3         (7.7)         (12.9)        (2.1)
1989 - 90                (14.0)       (1.6)      (12.4)          23.1         (7.4)
1990 - 91                  8.2        9.6          7.3          30.9           9.8
1991 - 92                 11.5       11.2         12.1          34.9          12.5
1992 - 93                 10.5       15.9         (1.2)          17.7         13.1
1982 - 93                 7.5        13.0          2.8          20.9          10.0
Sourcc Statistical Yearbook of China-1994, Table 14-5, p. 460.



- 46 -
Table 1.4: TRANSPORT INVETMFNr vs. ECoNoMIc OuTpur IN CHNA
(in Yuan billion)
Annual             GNP              Transport
transport          (current         investment
Year                   investment           prices)         as % of GNP
1966-70 3FYP              15.0&             935.0              1.6
1971-75 4FYP              31.81a           1,323.0             2.4
1976-80 5FYP              30.28a           1,758.0             1.7
1981-85 6FYP             41.9              3,130.5             1.3
1986-90 7FYP              89.1             6,875.3             1.3
1980                      5.9                447.0             1.3
1981                      3.6                477.3             0.8
1982                      5.2                519.3             1.0
1983                      7.2                580.9             1.2
1984                      10.0               696.2             1.4
1985                      15.9               856.8             1.9
1986                      16.7               969.6             1.7
1987                      17.4             1,130.1             1.5
1988                      19.0             1,406.8             1.4
1989                      18.0             1,599.3             1.1
1990                      18.0             1,769.5             1.0
1991                     30.0              2,023.6             1.5
1992                     39.3              2,437.9             1.6
1993                      63.9             3,134.2             2.0
1980-93 average                                                1.39
& Investment of FYPs includes Post and Telecommunications (about 4 percent of total).
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of China-1994, Table 5-2, p. 149, Table 2-10, p. 32.
Statistical Yearbook of China-1993, Table 5-22, p. 135, Table 2-12, p. 28.
Statistical Yearbook of China-1991, Table 5-22, p. 160.
Other data based on SAR of China Fifth Railway Project, Table 1.5, p. 88.



Table 1.5: INVESTMEN iN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR (INCLUDING POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS)
(in Yuan billion)
Ist FYP  2nd FYP             3rd FYP  4th FYP   5th FYP   6th FYP                      7th FYP
1953-57  195S-62   1963-65   1966-70  1971-75   1976-80   1981-85    1986    1987   1988    1989    1990   1991   1992    1993
Trasprt
Railway                     5.9     10.4        3.4      11.3      17.3       4.0      21.8      8.5      8.7   10.2      9.0    12.1   12.6             31.7
Highway                     -        -          -         -         -         -         5.9      2.7      3.3    4.2      4.3     5.5      -              15.8
Waterway                    -        -          -         -         -         -        11.0      3.7      3.9    3.2      3.6     4.8     -               6.1
Aviation                    -        -          -         -         -         -         2.9      1.3      1.4    1.3      1.0      1.5     -              10.0
Pipclizia                   -        -          -         -         -         -         0.1      0.5      0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1     -               0.0
Subotal                                                                              41.7    16.7    17.4   19.0    18.0    24.0   30.0   39.3    63.6
Pg & Tlccom.                 -        -          -                   -         -         3.6      1.3      1.6    1.8      2.3      2.7    3.1    5.5       1.3
TOW                       9.0     16.3        5.4      16.0      31.8      30.2      45.3     18.0    19.0   20.S    20.3    26.7   33.1    44.8    64.9
Total Capital
ihve cniait               58.8    120.6       42.2       97.6    176.4      234.2     341.0   117.6   134.3  152.6   155.2   170.4  211.6  301.3   301.3
Tranuport as % of
Tol investznat /a          15.3     13.5       12.7      16.4      18.0      12.9      12.2    14.2    13.0   12.5    11.6    14.1   14.2   13.0    21.1
la Invoetmnt of FYPr, befobr 1980, includes Poe and Tcleconmnnicationa (about 4 percent of total).
sourc: samsFcai Yearbook of caina-1993, Table 5-22, p. 135, and Table 5.5, p. 122.
SMdcal Yeabo of CQina-1994, Table 5-S, p. 149.



Table 1.6: SUMMARY STATISnCS OF BANK-FINANCED TRANPoRT PROJEC    (T OUGH FY94)
Actua             Ltn Amount, SM   $ million (net of
tanl       Board   Effective   Closng   (baSud on SAR)    canCellations)
Subsector/Project Nam                (Credit) No.    Date     Date     Date   IBRD       IDA   IBRD       IDA  Status
RML
Railway 1                              2394      03/27/84  07/10/84   12/31/90   220.00        219.25         Closed
Railway 11                             2540      05/14185  11/22f85  06130194   235.00         220.00         Closed
Railway III                         26781(1680)   04/15/86  01/14/87   06/30/95   160.00  70.00   160.00  70.00  Ongoing
Railway IV                             2968      06/23/88  04/25/89   12/31/96   200.00        200.00         Ongoing
Inner Mongolia Railway              3060(2014)   05/12189  01/16/90   12/31/96    70.00  80.00    70.00  80.00  Ongoing
Railway V                              3406      09/24/91  01/26/92   12/31/98   330.00        330.00         Ongoing
Railway VI                             3581      03/25/93  07/14/93   06/30/99   420.00        420.00         Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                   1.635.00  150.00  1.619.25  150.00               oo
Total Loan & Credit Amount in S million                                                                      1,785.00
PORTS
Ports 1                                2207      11/02/82  02/02/83   06/30/88   124.00         67.97         Closed
Tianjin Port                           2689      05/06/86  04/16/87   10/31/94   130.00         130.00        Ongoing
Huangpu Port                        2877/(1845)   10/06/87  10/20/88   12/31/93    63.00  25.00    63.00  25.00  Ongoing
Dalian Port                         2907/(1875)   02/09/88  10/13/88   12/31/93    71.00  25.00    70.25  25.00  Closed
Ningbo & Shanghai Ports                3006      12/13/88  05/09/89   12/31/93    76.40         76.40         Ongoing
Xiamen Port                            3007      12/13/88  02/07/89   03/31/95    36.00         36.00         Ongoing
Ship Waste Disposal                   (2391)     06/17/92  12/31/92   06/30/96         15.00            15.00  Ongoing
Shanghai Port Restoration & Dev.       3552      12/22/92  05/14/93   06/30/99   150.00        150.00         Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                     650.40  65.00   593.62  65.00
Total Loan & Credit Amount in $ million                                                                       715.40
... Continued



Table 1.6: (CONT'D)
Actual             Loan Amount, $M   $ million (net of
Loan/       Board   Effective   Closing   (based on SAR)   cancellations)
Subsector/Project Name                (Credit) No.   Date      Date      Date    IBRD      IDA   IBRD       IDA  Status
ROADS
Roads I                             2539/(1594)   05/14/85  12/04/85   06/30/91    42.60  30.00    29.60  30.00  Closed
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway   2811/(1792)   05/12/87  12/14/87   12/31/94    25.00  125.00    25.00  125.00 Ongoing
Highway III-Sichuan Highway         2951/(1917)   06/09/88  05/31/89   12/31/94    75.00  50.00    75.00   50.00  Ongoing
Highway IV-Shaanxi Highway             2952       06/09/88  05/31/89   12/31/94    50.00           50.00         Ongoing
Highway VI-Jiangxi Prov.               (1984)     02/07/89  06/14/89   12/31/95          61.00            61.00  Ongoing
Highway V-Shandong Provincial Highway  3037/(2025)   05/25/89  12/07/89   06/30/95    60.00  50.00    60.00  50.00  Ongoing
Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project    3471       05/19/92  09/17/92   06/30/98   220.00                         Ongoing
Guangdong Provincial Highway Project    3530      11/17/92  04/16/93   06/30/99   240.00          240.00         Ongoing
Henan Provincial Transport             3531       11/17/92  04/16/93   06/30/98   120.00          120.00         Ongoing
Fujian Provincial Highway              3681       12/14/93  07/24/94   06/30/00   140.00          140.00         Ongoing
Hebei/Henan National Highways          3748       06/07/94  10/18/94   06/30/88   380.00          380.00         Ongoing        I
Subtotal                                                                     1.352.60 316.00  1.119.60 316.00
Total Loan & Credit Amount in $ million                                                                        1,668.60
URBAN TRANSPORT
Shanghai Metro Transport               (2296)     09/10/91  01/26/92   06/30/98          60.00            60.00  Ongoing
Shanghai Metro Transport 11            3652       10/14/93  02/14/94   12/31/98   150.00          150.00         Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                       150.00  60.00    150.00  60.00
Total Loan & Credit Amount in $ million                                                                          210.00
MULTIMODAL
Jiangsu Provincial Transport         3316/(2226)   04/09/91  09/10/91   06/30/96   100.00  53.60    100.00  53.60  Ongoing
Subtotal                                                                       100.    53.60    100.00  53.60
Total Loan & Credit Amount in $ million                                                                          153.60
Sector Total Loan & Credit Amount in $                                                                         4.532.60



Table 2.1: FREIGIT TRAmC CARRED BY MOR
(in billion ton-kIn)
19S0    1911    1932    1983    1934   1915    1916    1987    1938         1939      1990      1991       1992     1993    X (93)
Cool                        176.70  13.20  199.76  213.15  233.55  259.59   277.00  285.74  299.51       316.18   344.64    341.42    357.71    358.36    30.1
runber                       51.20   49.50   49.32   53.15   57.49   62.93    66.23   64.39   53.32        57.89    53.64      51.52     51.10    53.30      4.5
bee ASteel Products          46.80   42.40   44.59   49.43   56.83   64.81    74.94   75.61   69.86        72.62    30.59      30.62     81.61    93.61      8.3
Coaouction Materials         33.30   30.40   39.63   41.97   42.11   45.69    46.55   48.32   49.49        52.02    44.17      43.66     46.64    61.16      5.1
Petoleum                     30.10   28.70   28.35   29.96   31.26   34.07    37.53   39.69   39.12        39.99    42.00     43.77      46.13    49.90      4.2
NonmtAaUic Ores              24.60   24.20   24.17   23.06   31.42   33.37    35.45   35.39   33.22        43.99    41.58      40.08     43.98    56.31      4.7
Grain                        22.10   24.70   24.03   26.32   28.36   42.59    42.41   57.33   55.54        53.61    56.55      66.S6     71.70    77.69      6.5
Mcaic Ofts                   18.10   16.40   16.96   13.73   21.33   25.32    28.39   29.53   32.11        33.11    44.23      42.95     44.96     47.08     3.9
Feriizer                     15.70   17.90    18.69   13.06   19.33   16.55    16.10   19.98   22.58       25.81    26.31     32.21      32.33    23.34      2.0
Coment                        9.00    9.60    10.30   11.00   11.53   13.42    14.42   15.20   14.31       17.22    15.41      16.34     19.53    24.83      2.1
Coke                          6.90    6.90    6.49    7.30    7.68    9.59    10.33   12.61   15.36        17.28    19.46      18.06     19.40     24.65     2.1
Salt                          5.10    5.40    5.56    6.23    6.60    7.36      9.27   10.32   11.90       15.43    12.45      13.40     12.15    11.23      0.9
Coton                         1.30    1.60     1.94    2.19    1.82    1.88     2.39    3.50    2.31        2.46     2.32       2.83      2.95      3.35     0.3
Mideeniaeoua                129.10  129.30  140.52  157.39  174.06  192.99   213.46  247.41  276.41       284.68   276.21    301.06    324.61    301.03    25.2
0
Total                    570.70  570.20  610.91  663.44  723.47  311.16   875.02  945.57  986.02   1.037.29  1.060.11  1.094.78  1.154.85  1.192.34   100.0
Soaane: Mini"y of Railways.



Table 2.2: MOR's FREIGHT TONNAGE ORIGINATED
(in million tons)
1980    1931    1982    1983      1934   1935      1936    1987    19S8    1989    1990    1991       1992   1993   % ('93)
Coal                    414.9   412.0   438.5   460.2    487.1   518.6    531.1   543.4   564.8   608.9   628.7   626.0   641.1  653.4    41.7
Timbr                    42.4    40.3    41.0    43.0      45.3   47.1      48.1    46.0    42.5    41.2    36.5    34.9    34.1   35.3         2.3
hIm & Steel Products     60.8    55.2    53.8    62.4      67.6   74.5      85.2    U4.9    79.4    79.4    33.0    33.1       84.9   98.5      6.3
CoasructionMaterials    158.5   139.5   162.3   161.3    158.7   158.4    149.8   147.3   149.0   146.7   124.8   119.7    119.2  129.3         8.2
Petroleum                55.6    49.8    50.4    53.3      56.1   5S8.1     62.5    65.7    64.6    64.6    65.3    65.5       67.0   70.4      4.5
Nonnistalc Ores          59.8    57.9    58.6    63.0      65.9   70.6      72.5    71.8    75.4    32.0    78.6    78.2        81.7   98.4     6.3
Grain                    31.5    34.3    34.7    35.6      35.9   45.0      46.5    55.4    54.6    53.2    54.3    62.2       64.1   66.1      4.2
Metcllic Ores            59.0    53.4    56.5    60.3      64.3   67.2      70.0    72.6    74.2    79.9    36.7    83.7    93.5   98.3         6.3
Fctilizer                22.1    24.5    25.0    25.5      26.3   23.1      22.7    26.7    29.0    31.6    33.7    37.5       33.2   29.3       1.9
Coemn                    23.6    24.3    25.1    26.1      27.8   30.1      34.1    34.6    32.9    35.3    34.3    37.1       40.8   43.5      3.1
Coke                     14.0    13.0    12.2    13.0      13.3   15.8      16.3    19.2    20.8    23.1    25.5    24.2       25.2   30.9      2.0
Saft                      9.3     9.0     9.0      9.0      9.3    9.5      10.8    10.4    11.2    13.2    11.2    11.2        11.6   12.3     0.8
Comm                      1.6     1.8    2.1       2.0      1.6    1.5       2.2      2.7     1.8      1.4     1.2     1.4      1.5    1.8      0.1
Micianou                132.8   133.5   136.2   145.6    151.3  155.5    169.9   138.9   205.2   207.6   197.7   209.3    220.4  194.9    12.4
Tzd                1.085.9  1.048.5  1.110.5  1.160.7 L212.2 1.275.2  1.322.2 1.369.5  1.405.6  1.468.0 1.462.   1.478.9  1.523.3 1.567.5   100.0
Somme: Ministry of Railways.



Table 2.3: AVERAGE DlSTANCE OF FREIGHT TRAFC CARRED BY MOR
(in kilometers)
1980  1981   1982  1983   1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Coal                               426   445   456   463   479   501   522   526   530   519   548   545   558   549
Timber                           1,208  1,228  1,204  1,237  1,255  1,335  1,377  1,410  1,371  1,404  1,469  1,473  1,499  1,524
Iron & Steel Products              770   768   759   792   841   870   879   890   879   914   971   970   961  1,001
Construction Materials             210   218   244   260   265   288   311   328   332   355   354   365   391   473
Petroleum                          541   576   572   557   557   586   620   604   605   619   643   668   689   709
Nonmetallic Ores                   411   418   412   446   477   478   489   493   507   537   529   513   538   572
Grain                              702   720   695   739   791   946   912  1,034  1,016  1,008  1,041  1,076  1,119  1,175
Metallic Ores                      319   307   300   310   332   384   406   408   433   477   510   484   481   479
Fertilizer                         710   731    748   710   724   715   709   750   780   817   796   859   846   814
Cement                             381   395   411    422   417   446   423   440   450   488   443   442   479   512
Coke                               493   531   534   561   555   609   618   658   738   749   764   746   770   797
Salt                               548   600   619   691    710   773   859   991  1,065  1,173  1,114  1,201  1,047   910
Cotton                             813   889   946  1,101  1,175  1,250  1,331  1,323  1,542  1,755  1,869  2,030  1,967  1,861
Miscellaneous                      972   969  1,032  1,084  1,147  1,242  1,256  1,310  1,347  1,371  1,397  1,438  1,473  1,544
Average                        526   544   550   572   597   636   662   690   702   707   725   740   758   761
Source: Ministry of Railways and Statistical Yearbook of China-1992, Table 12-17, p. 519.



Table 2.4: MOR's PASSENGER TRAFFC AND AVERAGE PASSENGER TRAVEL DISrANCE
1980   1981    1982      1983      1984      1915      1916      1987      1938      1989    1990    1991   1992       1993
pNyeans" (million)
Suburban                      195.0  192.5   208.7       212.5    202.4      168.3     154.7     152.1    163.9      157.1  135.9   120.2  120.4       118.2
Odier                         717.5  749.9   780.2       836.9    920.3      940.8     918.7    962.1   1,052.1      970.9  813.0   821.9  867.5       927.6
Totl                        912.5  942.4   988.9   1.049.4  1.122.7   1.109.1   1.073.4  1114.1   1.216.0   1.128.0  948.9   942.1  9S7.9   1.045.8
Pasenezr-km (billion)
Suburban                        4.6    4.6       5.0       5.2      5.1       4.1        3.8       3.8      4.7        4.4    3.9     3.0    3.1         3.0
Other                         133.4  142.4   152.2       172.1    199.2      237.1     254.5    280.1    321.1       299.0  257.1   279.5  311.7       344.9
ToW l                       138.0  147.0   157.2       177.3    204.3      24U       2St.      2U.      325.7    303.4  261.0   282.5  314.8         347.9
Averc. Diance (km)
Suburban                       24      24       24        24       25        24        25         25       28        28      29      25      26         25
Other                         186    190       195       206      217       252        277       290      305        308    316     340    359         372
Weighted Avc.               151    156       159       169       182      218        241       255      268        269    275     300    319
Smoe: MiniMq of RaiHways.



Table 2.5: SELECFED OPERATIONAL STATISCS OF MOR, 1980W93
19S0   1931   1932   1913   1914   1915   1916   1937   1981   1919   1990   1991    1992   1993
A. Route Lenrth (km. at year end)
Standard gauge (1.435 m)                 49,225  49,474  49,333  50,905  51,041  51,419  51,717  51,911  52,067  52,412  52,673  52,711  52,895  53,131
Nerrow gauge (1.Om and 0.6m)               710    703    703    694    695    695    695    695    695    700    700    700    666    666
Wide puge                                    5       5       5       5       5       5      5       5       5       5      5       5       5       5
Toul                                     49.940  50.1S1   50.541  5160   51741  52.119  52.47  52611  52767  53.17  53.378  541   .           53.02
Of which:
Double track                            8,119   1,263   3,613   9,183   9,671   9,919  10,013  11,186  11,771  12,523  13,024  13,330  13,653  14,315
Ileetrified                             1,667   1,667   1,737   2,334   3,014   4,151   4,430   4,643   5,733   6,372   6,941   7,804   1,434   3,935
D. Staff (at Year-end)
Enyloy-e ('000)                           2,615   2,710   2,763   2,344   3,053   3,124   3,200   3,247   3,293   3,300   3,331   3,420   3,414   3,409
C. Rollinr Stock (averate of number at berinnin, and end of vear)
Steam locomotives
Nunber in fleet (exrl. rewerver)        7,801    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.  7,551   7,674   7,542   7,331   7,130   6,637   6,279   5,936   5,498   5,109
Available, %                             n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.    na.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.
Diewel locomotives
Nunber in fleet                         2,190    n.a.    n.m.    n.c.  3,102   3,511   4,017   4,400   4,336   5,256   5,630   6,111   6,581   7,092
Available, %                             n.m.    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    n.m.    n.e.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.c.    n.a.
Electric locomotives, nmin line
Number in fleet                          287    n.a.    n.a.    n.m.    484    587    707    748   1,197   1,430   1,623   1,809   2,002   2,196
Available, b                             n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.m.    n.m.    n.m.    n.a.    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    n.a.    n.s.    n.c.    n.c.
Parwenger cars                           16,157    n.m.    n.e.    n.m.  19,600  20,872  22,138  23,474  24,917  26,304  27,261  27,612  23,464  29,395
Freight care ('000)
Box cars                                 40.4    n.a.    n.m.    n.m.   49.6   52.7   54.6   55.5   58.0   62.2   66.7   70.3   73.1   75.8
Gondolas                                165.4    n.m.    n.a.    n.m.   173.7  185.7  197.7  209.9  219.2  226.8  233.0  231.1  228.9  240.2
Flat cars                                20.8    n.m.    n.s.    n.m.    19.1    18.8   18.5   17.8   13.2   18.5   18.8   19.3   20.6   21.1
Tank cars                                33.5    n.m.    n.a.    n.m.   32.2   31.8   31.4   32.1   32.5   33.3   33.6   34.1   34.8   35.5
Refrigerated                              2.5    n.s.    n.a.    n.m.    3.7    4.0    4.0    4.3    4.4    4.7    5.2    5.6    5.8    6.2
Others                                    3.S    n.m.    n.m.    n.c.    7.9    7.9    8.4    3.6    8.0    7.5    7.3    9.6   10.1   11.3
Total fleet                             266.4    n.m.    n.a.    n.a.  291.2  300.9  314.6  328.2  340.3  353.0  364.9  370.0  373.3  390.1
Available, b                             n.a.    n.m.    n.e.    n.C.  99.0%  100.0%  100.0%    n.a.    n.m.    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    n.a.    n.m.
... Continued



Table 2.5: (cONT'D)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1936    1937    193U    1939    1990    1991    1992    1993
D. Traffic
Pauenger traffic
Pasengers of CentralfRailway(million)       913     942      989   1,049   1,123   1,109   1,074 1,114.0   1,216   1,228       949     942     933   1,046
Pasengers of Local Railway (million)       9.5S   10.61   10.34   10.93   10.33   11.97   12.21   10.65   10.50   10.09    3.24    3.72    9.05    3.73
Pasuenger-km of Central Railways (million)   133,037 146,937 157,200 177,339 204,315 241,251 253,311 234,000 325,731 303,437 261,000 262,414 314,300 347,900
Passenger-km df Local wailways (millon)     279     293      234     312     323      363     360     306     301      304     253     321      395     392
Average journey (km)                        151     156      159     169    12      218      241     255     268     247      275     300     319      333
Freight traffic
Net tons of cental railway (million)     1,035.3  1,043.4 1,110.5  1,160.7 1,212.2 1,275.2 1,322.2   1,370   1,406   1,463   1,462   1,479   1,523   1,567
Net tons of Local Railway (million)        2.70    2.34    2.43    2.71    2.36    3.19    3.42    3.70    4.40    4.69    4.47    5.00    5.31    6.00
Netton-kmofCentmalRailway(bil.)             571     570      611     663     724      S11   375.0    946      936   1,037   1,061   1,095   1,155   1,192
Netton-kmof Local Railway (bil.)           0.96    1.07    1.08    1.21    1.29    1.41    1.47    1.53    1.74    2.12    2.12    2.39    2.70    3.12
Average haul (km)                           526     544      550     572     597      636     662     691     701      707     725     740      753     761
Converted tdn (ctkm - pkm + thn) (billion)    709     717      763     341    923   1,052   1,133   1,230   1,312   1,341   1,321   1,377   1,470   1,554
Traffic densities (miUlion)
pkim per route km                          2.90    3.10    3.28    3.70    4.24    4.79    5.06    5.43    6.17    5.71    4.39    5.29    5.33    6.47
tkn per route km                          12.00   11.90   12.76   13.83   15.00   16.12   17.13   13.07   18.68   19.50   19.86   20.50   21.56   22.16
etkm per route km                         14.90   15.00   16.05   17.52   19.24   20.91   22.19   23.52   24.35   25.21   24.75   25.79   27.43   23.33
E. Operations
Total locomotive-km (million km)              a.m.    n.a.    n.e.    n.s. 1,099.9 1,183.0 1,230.6 1,273.0 1,317.0 1,341.0 1,358.1  1,335.0 1,426.0 1,471.0
- By type of train:
Pasenger                                  n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   266.5   290.2   301.7   310.0   324.0   324.3   323.4   334.0   342.4   358.3
Frmight                                   n.a.    n.a.      .A.    na..   320.9  380.6   913.9   954.0   978.0 1,002.1  1,019.2 1,033.7 1,066.4 1,096.7
- By type of traction:
Steam                                     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   702.9   633.6   636.2   595.0   562.0   516.2   472.3   431.7   509.4   337.2
Diesel                                    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    ca.   348.8   433.2   507.6   570.0   622.0   657.5   699.2   754.5   808.5   855.5
lectric                                   n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    na..    48.1    68.2    36.9   113.0   133.0   163.1   186.1   207.6   301.0   279.4
Main loco-km (train-km) (million km)          n.a.    n.a.    1.1.    n.a.   784.1   848.8   331.9   922.0   956.0   983.3   993.6  1,019.7 1,054.2 1,087.2
- By type of traction:
Steam                                     n.s.    n.a.    n.c.    n.a.   491.4   463.9   434.2   389.0   361.0   324.4   296.5   267.0   233.0   201.3
Diesel                                    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    nA..   254.7   325.9   386.6   442.0   487.0   51.0   550.3   583.4   619.4   659.7
Electric                                  u.s.    na.    n.a.    na..    3S.0    54.0    71.2    91.0   108.0   136.9   151.3   169.4   196.S   226.2
... Continued



Table 2.5: (CONT'D)
1980    1981    1982    1913    1934    1985    19S6    1987    1988    1919    1990    1991    1992    1993
Freight car-km (nil.)
Loaded                                     rn.-.    n.S.    n.s.    n.S.  20,115  22,779  18,390  19,493  20,004  20,779  21,053  21,690  22,319  22,957
Eipty, inchlde caboose                      n.r.    n.a.    n.M.    n.&.    n.e.    n.e.   5,061   6,216   5,354   5,358   5,940   5,915   6,590   S,257
Total                                       n.a.    n.S.    n..    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.  23,451  25,709  25,358  26,137  26,993  27,605  23,909  31,214
Loaded fmright cars forwarded per day      61,29S  58,620  61,300  63,149  64,856  67,221  63,911  70,000  70,400  72,919  72,369  72,911  74,109  7S,462
Averg fieih ce tutrnaound tian  (days)       3.02    3.21    3.22    3.30        3       3        4       4       4        4       4     4.2     4.2      4.2
Avenge freight Cat turnaround diance (kn)     747     770      770     791     121     870      901     934     952     952      993   1,006   1,025   1,032
F. Performace Indicacr
Paserr per p _t rerttmim                      n.e.    n.e.    n        na.    na.    U.S.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.m.    na.    n.m.    n.S.    n.a.
Freight traffic:
Averg usin sii:
loaded cars pec train                     n.e.    na..    n.a.    n.a.    n.s.    n.c.    n.m.    n.S.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    na.    n.a.
Empty cars per trin                       n.e.    n.e.    n.e.    n.1n.    n.a.    n.c.           n.e.     n.a.  n.e.      n.e.     n..    n.a.    n.a.    n.S. 
Tol ca tpe ttrain                        na..     n         .a.    n.e.    n.e.     n.a. n.e.    n.e        n.A. n.e.     n.e  na.    n.a.     n.S.                 LA
Avenge train weight
Grom ton                                 1,994   1,996   2,021   2,073   2,131   2,211   2,291   2,343   2,365   2,409   2,414   2,444   2,483   2,519
Net tons                                  n.e.    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    na.    na..    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.    n.s.
Average ld per loaded feight car (net tons)    43.0  49       49      50      51      52       52      53      54      55       56     5S       56      56
Avenge %ped of freight trains (kmnh)         29      29    28.0       28      27      23       29      23      28      29       29      30      30      30
Averge nunber of employces per operational km  32      34       35    33.0    34.2      35      36       37      36      36       36      36      36      36
Yearly disance covered per available loco ('000):
Diesel, main line                         n.e.    n.a.    na.    n.a.    n.S.    n.a.    na..    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.m.    n.a.    n.a.
Electric, main line                       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.s.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.e.    n.a.    n.r.    n.s.    n.c.    n.a.    n.a.
Steam                                     n.c.    n.e.    n.a.    n.e.    n.e.    n.m.    n.a.    n.m.    n.r.    n.e.    n.e.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.
Net ton-kmper available feiht car (million)   n.S.    n.m.    n.e.    n.r.    n.e.    n.a.    n.S.    n.a.    n.a.    n.e.    n.a.    n.a.    n.S.    n.e.
Sbwve: Ministry of Railways.



- 57 -
Table 2.6: RALWAY ASSEr UTILIATION IN  SELECrED COUNTRIES
China       India        USA La
Indicators                                           (1993)    (1992/93)       (1993)
Freight ton-km/route-km                (million)      22.2         4.1           9.1
Passenger-km/route-km                  (million)       6.5         4.8
Freight ton-km/freight wagon owned     (million)       3.1         0.8           1.4/b
Average net tons/wagon loaded           (tons)        56.1        19.3/c        58.4
Average freight wagon turnaround time   (days)         4.2        10.8/c
Average length of freight haul           (km)        761         721         1,281
Average number of staff per route-km                  63.36       26.39          0.67
Traffic units per route-km             (million)/d    28.63        8.93          9.12
Traffic units per employee              (000)/d      451.82      335.01      8,433.15
/a  Figures converted into metric system.
/b  Includes wagons owned by wagon companies and shippers.
/c  Broad gauge.
/d  Traffic units = ton-km + passenger-km.
Sources:  China:  Ministry of Railways.
India:  Indian Railways Yearbook, 1992-93.
USA:  AAR, Railroads Fads, 1994 edition (includes Class I railroads only).



Table 3.1: INVFsTmENT Com AND LoAN SUMMARY (in $ million)
19)94                                  1995                                  1996                                   1997
Local   Foreign    Total     Loian    Local   Foreign    Totali    Loain      Local   Foreign    Total     Loan     Local   Foreign    Total      Loan
t'Crtidor Capacity Expansion
Insetrnentcosts                      3443      12.11     46.54      0.00    213.53    89.99    303.52      4.37    244.80    107.72    352.52    76.19    132.41    49.94    182.35    43.32
PhN ical contingencies                 3.44     0.94      4.38      0.00    21.35      7.02     28.37      0.34    24.48      8.40     32.88      5.94    13.24      3.90     17.14      3.38
Price contingencies                   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.76     0.72      2.48      0.04     6.49      2.80      9.29      1.98     6.79      2.51      9.30      2.18
Intormation Systenis        37.87     13.05    50.92      0.J0    236.64    97.73  334.37        4.74    275.77    118.92    394.69    84.11    152.44    56.35    208.79     48.88
Information Systems
Investment costs                      11.59    10.61     22.20      0.00O    18.19    26.53     44.72      0.00    21.93     32.59     54.52      7.02    26.68     49.03     75.71    31.60
Physical contingencies                 0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Price contingencies                  000       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.14      0.20      0.34      0.00     0.53      0.78      1.31      0.17      1.24     2.28      3.52      1.47
11.59    1061      22.20      0.00    18.33     26.73     45.06     0.00     22.46     33.37     55.83     7.19     27.92     51.31     79.23    33.07
Telecommunicauons
Investment costs                      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      000       0.00      0.00    50.97     13.78     64.75     13.78    39.34     24.07     63.41    24.07
P'hNical contingencies                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     000       0.00      0.00      0.00     5.10      0.69      5.79      0.69     3.93      1.20      5.13      1.20
Price contingencies                   000       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.35     0.35      1.70      0.35     2.02      1.18      3.20      1.18
0.00     0.00      0.00     OO       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    57.42     14.82     72.24     14.82    45.29     26.45     71.74    26.45
tContainer Transport Commercialization
Investmentcosts                       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    67.19     25.14     92.33    25.14     59.57      1.24     60.81      1.24          1
Phl.ical contingencies                000       0000      000       000      000       0.00      000       0.00     4.70      1.90      6.60      1.90     4.17      0.00      4.17     0.00
IPrice contin"encies                  0.00      000       0.00      0t00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.73     0.65      2.38     0.65      2.97      0.06      3.03     0.06
0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     000       0.00      0.00     73.62    27.69    101.31     27.69    66.71      1.30     68.01      1.29
Pihit i nironmental Protection
lnscstntentcosts                      0.00      00        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.93      2.70      3.63      2.70     1.23      1.65      2.88      1.65
Pli!sical contingencies                0.00     0.00      000       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.07      0.07     0.07      0.00      0.04      0.04     0.04
Price contingencies                   000       0.00      000       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.02      0.07      0.09     0.07      0.06      0.08      0.14     0.08
0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      00       0.95      2.84      3.79      2.85      1.29     1.77      3.06      1.78
S stenm Capacity Expansion
Investnentcosts                       000       0.00      0.00      0.00     000       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.60     15.00     18.60     15.00
Ph% sical contingencies               0.00      0.00      00        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Irice contingencies                    0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.17      0.70      0.87     0.70
0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.77     15.70     19.47     15.70
1 cchnical Assistance, Trainin". Softssare
Inses inenteosts                       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.84      0.84      0.84     0.06      3.17      3.23      3.17     0.06      1.72      1.78      1.72
P'hx sicai contingencies               0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Price contingencies                   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.01      0.01      0.01     0.00      0.08      0.08     0.08      0.00      0.08      0.08     0.08
0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      000      0.85      0.85      0.84     0.06      3.25      3.31      3.24     0.06      1.80      1.86      1.80
Touil - Baink Finan,in'
Ijisesinientcosts                    46.02     22.72     68.74      0.00    231.72    117.36    349.08     5.20    385.87    185.10    570.97    128.00    262.89    142.65    405.54    118.60
Ph\ sical contingencies                3.44     0.94      4.38      0.00    21.35      9.72     31.07      3.04    34.28     13.26     47.54     10.80    21.34      5.14     26.48     4.62
1'rice contingencies                   0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      1.89     0.97      2.86      0.08     10.12     4.80     14.92      3.37    13.25      6.89     20.14      5.74
Total                                  49.46     23.66     73.12     0.00    254.96    128.05    383.01     8.32    430.27    203.16    633.43    142.17    297.48    154.68    452.16    128.96
Source: Ministry of Railways and micsion esumates



Table 3.1: (CONT'D) (in $ million)
1998                                 1999                                          Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Loan     Local   Foreign    Total     Loan       Local        Foreign       Total         Loan
Corridor Capacitv Expansion
InNestmentcosts                     51.26     19.11    7037      27.89     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        676.43       278.86        955.29       151.76
Physical contingencies               5.13      1.49     6.62     2.18      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        67.64         21.76         89.40        11.85
Price contingencies                  4.13      I.51     5.64     2.20      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         19.17         7.54         26.71         6.39
60.52    22i 1    82 63    32.27      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00        763.24       308.16       1,071.40       170.00
Iilformation Systems
Investment costs                     2.14     0.12      2.26     0.12      0.03     0.12      0.15     0.12        80.57        119.01        199.58        38.87
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
Price contingencies                  0.16     0.01      0.17     0.01      0.01     0.01      0.02     0.01          2.08         3.28          5.36         1.66
2.30     0.13     2 43      0.13     0.04      0.13     0.17     0.13         82 65        122.29       204.94        40.53
Telecommunications
Investment costs                     1.88      1.83     3.71      1.83     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        92.19         39.68        131.87        39.69
Physicalcontingencies                0.19      0.09     0.28     0.09      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          9.22         1.98         11.20         1.98
Price contingencies                  0.15     0.14      0.29     0.14      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          3.52         1.67          5.19         1.67
2.22     2.06     4.28      2.07     0.00      000      0.00     0.00        104.93        43.33        148.26        43.35
Container Trainsport Commercialization
Investmentcosts                      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        126.76        26.38        153.14        26.38                   X
Physical contngencies                0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         8.87          1.90         10.77         1.90                  t4,
Price contingencies                  0,(K      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.(0     0.00      O.(0     0.00         4.70          0.71          5.41         0.71
0.00     0.()0    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        140.33        28.99        169.32        28.98
Pilot Environmental Protectipon
Investment costs                     0.18      0.00     0.18     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          2.34         4.35          6.69         4.35
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         0.00          0.11          0.11         0.11
Price contingencies                  0.01      0.00     0.01     0,00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         009           0.15          0.24         0.15
0.19     0.00     0.19      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00          2.43         4.61          7.04         4.61
System Capacity Exparision
Investment costs                    17.41    34.47     51.88    34.47     10.33    43.00    53.33    43.00         31.34         92.47        123.81        92.47
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0 00         0.00          0 00         0.00          0.00
Price contingencies                  1.27      2.53     3.80     2.53      1.03     4.31      5.34     4.31          2.47         7.53         1000          7.53
18.68    37.00    55.68     37.00    11.36    47.31     58.67    47.31         33.81       1(K)00        13381        100.00
Technical AssisLance, Training. Software
Investment costs                     0.06      1.41     1.47     1.41      0.00     0.12      0.12     012          0.18          7.26          7.44         7.26
Physical contngencies                0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
Pricecontingencies                   0.00      0.10     0.10     0.10      0.00     0.01      001      0.01        O0.0           0.28         0.28          0.28
0.06     1.51      1.57     1.51     0.00     0.13      0.13     0.13          0.18         7.54          7 72         7.54
Total - Bank Financin'
Investment costs                    72.93     56.95    129.88    65.73    10.36    43.24    53.60    43.24       1,009.81       568.00      1,577.81       360.77
Physical contingencies               5.31      1.58     6.89     2.27      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         85.72        30.65        116.37        20.73
Price contingencies                  5.73      4.29    10.02     4.98      1.05     4.33      5.38     4.33        32.04         21.27         53.31        18.50
83.97    62.82    146.79    72.9     1141    47.57    5          47.57      1.127.57       619.92      1,747.49       400.
UM - 95-44-0K6



Table 3.1: (CONT'D) (in Yuan million)
1994                                   195                                     1996                                    1997
I  Local   Foreign    Total    L.oan   I.oail   F oreign    Total    Loan      Local    Foreign    Totail    Loain     Local    Foreign    Total     Loan
Corridor Calpacits I:xpansion
Insestnient costs                    29953    105.35    404.88       0.00  1.857.70    782.89  2.640.60     38.00  2.129.73    937.05  3.066.78    662.81   1.151.88    434.50  1.586.38    376.89
Plh s%ical contingencies              29.95      8.22     38.17      000    185.77      6107    246.84       2.96    212.97     73.09    286.06    51.70    115.19     33.89    149.08     29.40
Pric contingencies                     000       011)      0.00      0.00    13836      57 14    195.5(      0.31    464.69    200.37    665.06     17.22    395.51    146.21    541.72    18.94
329.48    II 57    443.0)5     (((K  2.181.83    901 10  .082.94      41.27  2.807.39   1.21(.51   4.017.90    711.72   1.662.58    614.60  2.277.18    425.22
Information Systems
Insmesnent costs                     106.69     97.66    204.35      0.00    172.0(    251.00    423.10      0.00    207.57    308.38    515.95    61.11    252.41    463.79    716.20    274.91
PItsical contingcncies                 000      0O(1)      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      00(0      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      00        0.00      0.00
Price contingencies                    0.00      0.(0      0(1)    .O0        11.65     16.99     2865       000      41.17    61.17    102.31       1.47    78.79    144.77    223.56     12.81
1(06.69   97.66    20435       000    I183.75    2h8.(0    451.74      0.00    248.74    369.56    618.3(1    62.58    331.18    608.56    939.74    287.72
Telecommunications
Insersmrnt costs                      O         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0(      0.00      0.00      0.00    482.22    130.28    612.50    119.90    372.23    227.62    599.85    209.42
Phssical contingencics                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00        0       0.00     48.22      6.51     54.74     5.99     37.22     11.38     48.60     10.47
1'rice contingencies                   0.00      0(10      00X)      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    105.22     27.1,3   132.35     3.03    127.81     74.60    202.41     10.25
0.00     0.00     O.))     0(        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    635.66    16392    799.58    128.92    537.26    313.60    850.87    230.14
(onlat!ncr Transporl Conrnserciali7ation
Inestment costs                        0.00      00        00        0.00      0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00    635.60    237.75    873.35    218.74    563.50                   11.69    575.20     10.75
I'Phsicalcontingencies                 0.00      000       0         000 00    0.00      0.00      000       0.00     4449      I8.03    62.52     16.50     39.45      0.00     39.45      0.00        O
I'rice continencie                      (X)      0.00      000       000       O(X)    (0.0        0.00      0.00    13490      50.73    185.63     5.67    188.21      3.65    191.86      0.50
00)      O(X)      00.       000       0.0(      00(X)     (00       0.00    814.99    30f.51  1.121 50    240.91    791.16     15.34    806.50    11.25
Iilot Ii nsimntnienIlt ProLtection
Ilsesimtentcosts                       000       0.00      000       000       000       000       0.00      0.00      8.74     25.58     34.33    23.52     11.64     15.65     27.29     14.39
Ph%sical continettcics                 000       000       0.00      000       000       000       000       0.00      0.00      0.61     0.61      0.65      0.00      0.38      0.38      0.36
P'rice contingencies                   0.00      000       0-0O      0.00      0.00      0.00      000       0.00      1 73      5.20      6.93     0.58      3.63      5.00      8.64      0.68
0.00     000       O(Xi      000      O0        0.00      000       0.00     10,47     31.39     41.87    24.75      15.27    21.04     36.30     15.45
SssternCip.icits Expansion
Insesimentcosls                        0.00      000       O(X)      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     31.35    130.50    161.85    130.50
Phssical contingencies                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0()0      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      00       0.00      000       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
P'rice cotltincencies                  (0        000       0.00 0o00           0.00 ooo o          0.00      0.00      0.00 0o00 0o00               0.00      9.78     40.72     50.51      6.08
000      O(X)      OX       000       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    41.13    171.22    212.36    136.58
echtnical Assistance. Training. Sofltware
In\estnment cost                       000       0X)       0.00      0.00      0.00      7.28      7.28      7.28      0.51     27.55    28.07     27.55      0.51     14.95     15.46     14.95
Piissicalcontincencies                 000       00        0000      0.00 00             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0)        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Price contingcriies                    000       ((X)      000       0.00      0.00      0.49      0.49      0.05      0.10      5.46      5.57     0.66      0.16      4.67      4.84      0.70
0.00     000       O()       000       0.00      7.76      7.76      7.33      0.61     33.02     33.63    28.21      0.67      19.61    20.28     15.64
Toted - B;anh Fi nnciii
Inestmentcosts                       406.23    203.01    609.24      0.0(0  2.029.80   1.041.17  3.07097    45.27  3.464.36   1.666.59  5.130.95  1.113.61   2.383.52  1.298.70  3.682.22   1.031.81
Physical cotiiticLencies              29.95      8.22     38.17      0.00    185.77     8456    270.33      26.45    305.69    117.39    423.08    93.99    191.86     45.65    237.51     40.23
Price contin.gencies                   0.00      00(0      0()X)     O.      150.01     74.98    224.99      0)71    747.81    350.75   1.098.56   29.33    803.89    419.62   1.223.51    49.96
Total                                  43618    211.23    647.41       0.00  2,365.58  1,200.71  3.56.29     72.44  4.517.86  2,11373  6      , S2.59  1,236.93  3,379.27   17h63.97  5.143.24   1,122.10
Siuar(e: Ministry of Railways and mission estinates



Table 3.1: (CONT'D) (in Yuan million)
1998                                 1999                                          Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Loan     Local   Foreign    Total     Loati      Local        Foreign       Total         Loan
Corridor Capacity Expansion
Investment costs                   445.89    166.27    612.16   242.65     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      5,884.74      2,426.08     8,310.82      1,320.34
I'hysical contingencies             44.59     12.97    57.56     18.93     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        588.47        189.23       777.70        102.99
Price contingeacies                202.96    74.17    277.13     19.17     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1,201.52       477.89      1,679.41        55.64
693.44    253.41    946.85   280.75    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      7.674.73      3,093.20     10.767.93     1,478.97
Information Systems
Investment costs                    20.30      1.16    21.46     1.07      0.32      1.16     1.48     1.07        759.37      1,123.16     1,882.53       338.15
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Price contingencies                  8.40      0.48     8.88     0.08      0.16     0.59      0.75     0.11        140.18       224.00        364.18         14.46
28.72     1.64    30.36      1.14     0.48      1.75     2.23     1.17        899.55      1,347.16     2,246.71        352.62
Telecommunications
Investment costs                     17.82    17.25    35.07     15.95     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        872.27       375.15       1,247.42      345.26
Physical contingencies                1.78     0.86     2.64     0.80      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         87.22        18.75        105.97         17.26
Price contingencies                  8.11      7.49    15.61      1.23     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        241.14       109.22        350.36         14.51
27.72    25.60    53.32    17.97      0.00      0.00     0.00    o0o         1,200.63      503.12       1,703.75       377.03
Container Transport Commercialization
Investment costs                     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1,199.10       249.44      1,448.54       229.49
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         83.94        18.03        101.97        16.50
Pricecontingencies                   0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        323.11        54.38        377.49         6.17
0.00     000u-    000       0.00     0 00      0.00     0.00     0.00       1,606.15      321.85       1,928.00       252.16
Pilot Environmental Protection
Investment costs                      1.68     0.00     1.68      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00         22.06        41.23         63.29        37.91
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          0.00         0.99          0.99         1.01
Price contingencies                  0.70      0.00     0.70     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          6.06        10.20         16.26         1.26
2.37     0.00     2.37      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00         28.12        52.42         80.54        40.20
System Capacity Expansion
Investment costs                    151.40   299.89    451.29   299.89    89.86    374.10   463.96   374.10        272.61       804.49      1,077.10       804.49
Physical contingencies               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          0.00         O.00          0.00         0.00
Price contingencies                 62.65    124.09    186.74    21 98    45.76    190.50   236.26    37.46        118.19       355.32        473.51        65.53
21405    423.98    638.03   321.87    135.62   564.60   700.22   411.56        390.80      1,159.81     1,550.61       870.02
Technical Assistance. Trainine. Software
Investment costs                     0.51     12.26    12.78    12.26      0.00      1.05     1.05     1.05          1.53        63.09         64.62        63.09
Physical conOngencies                0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Price contingencies                  0.21      5.07     5.28     0.90      0.00     0.53      0.53     0.10          0.47        16.23         16.70         2.41
0.73    17.33     18.06    13.16     0.00      1.58     1.58     1.15          2.00        79.32         81.32        65.50
Total - Bank Financing
Investment costs                   637.61    496.83  1,134.44   571.81    90.18    376.31    466.49   376.21     9,011.68      5,082.64    14,094.32      3,138.72
Physical contingencies              46.37     13.83    60.20     19.72     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       759.64        269.65      1,029.29       180.40
Price contingencies                283.03    211.31    494.34    43.36    45.92    191.63    237.55    37.67     2,030.66      1,248.29     3,278.95       161.03
967.01   721.97  1,6989    634.90    136.10   567!964   704.03   413.89     IL,80198z      CW6.60f&.   18.42056       3
UM - 95-1)4 06



Table 3.2: INVESTMENT COSTS OF CORREDOR CAPACrrY ExPANSION COMPONENT (in $ million)
1994              1995                            1996                     1997                      1998                     Total US$ mill
Local  Foreign   Total    Local ForeigLn  Total   Local  Foreign   Total   I ocal  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total     Local     Foreign     Total
Preparation              3.21    0.70    3.91    5.43      1.19    6.62    2.17    0.48     2.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00         10.81        2.37      13.18
Roadbed                  4.73    2.55    7.28    11.20    6.03    17.23    11.20    6.03    17.23    4.80    2.58    7.38    0.00    0.00    0.00        31.93       17.19      49.12
Blridees and cul crts    0.65    1.66    2.31    2.63    6.75    9.38    2.63    6.75    9.38    0.66        1.69    2.35    0.00    0.00    0.00         6.57       16.85      23.42
Tunilsis                 0.49    0.33    0.82    2.00      1.34    3.34    2.00     1.34    3.34    0.50    0.33    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00          4.99        3.34       8.33
Track                    1.91    5.17    7.08    7.76   20.98   28.74    7.76   20.98   28.74        .94    5.24    7.18    0.00    0.00    0.00          19.37      52.37      71.74
Communications           0.00    0.00    0.00    9.20    6.13    15.33   19.01   10.18   29.19   15.48    7.85   23.33         1.15    0.77    1.92      44.84       24.93      69.77
Signalling               OM0    0.00    0.00   20.30    13.53   33.83   24.66   16.24   40.90   20.68    10.82    31.50   27.01   13.53   40.54          92.65       54.12     146.77
Electric power           1.69     1.13    2.82    6.85    4.57    11.42    6.00    4.00    10.00    2.57     1.71    4.28    0.00    0.00    0.00        17.11       11.41      28.52
Flectnfication           o.0     0.00    0.00   37.39   24.93   62.32   75.65   37.39   113.04   29.65    16.62   46.27       7.32    4.15    11.47      150.01      83.09     233.10
Buildings                000     0.) O    0.00    17.94    2.22   20.16   20.93    2.59   23.52    17.94    2.22   20.16    2.99    0.37    3.36         59.80        7.40      67.20
Mtiscellaneous          21.7i    0.57   22.32   89.64    2.32   91.96   66.21       1.74   67.95   33.11     0.87   33.98    11.04    0.29    11.33     221.75        5.79     227.54
Re,etiflieiet            00      0.(0o    0.00    3.1I 9    O0.0   3.19    6.SS    0.00    6.58    5.08    0.00    5.08       1.75    0.00     1.75      16.60        0.00      16.60      C
Subtotal                34.43    12.11   46.54  213.53   89.99  303.52  244.80  107.72  352.52  132.41   49.93  182.34   51.26    19.11   70.37         676.43      278.86     955.29
Ph\sical ContinLencies   3.44    0.94    4.38   21.35      7.02   28.37    24.48    8.40   32.88    13.24    3.90   17.14    5.13    1.49    6.62        67.64       21.76      89.40
Baweline EstimaIe       37.87    13.05   50.92  234.88   97.01  331.89  269.28   116.12  385.40  145.65   53.84  199.49   56.39   20.60   76.99         744.07      300.62    1,044.69
Price Contingencies:
' per Year               O.)    0O.               L1.50    1.50             1.80    1.80             2.60    2.60             2.50    2.50
Comnpounlided          0.00    0.o0             0.75    0.75             2.41    2.41              4.66    4.66             7.33    7.33                2.58        2.51       2.56
ATIIoaUi                 0.00    0.00    0.00     1.76    0.72     2.48    6.49    2.80    9.29    6.79    2.51    9.30    4.13    1.51    5.64          19.17        7.54      26.71
Total                   37.87    13.05   50.92   236.64   9773   34.37  275.77  118.92  394.69  152.44        .    208.79   60.52   22.11   8263        763.24      308.16    1.071.4
Soirt e: NM inistiy of Rail wa s and mission estimates                                                                                                         UM - 95-04-06



Table 3.3: INVEsTMENT COsTs OF INFORMATION SYSrEmS MODERNIZATION COMPONENT (in $ million)
1994                    1995                    1996                    1997                     1998                    1999                    Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
TMISEq.ipment                 11.59   10.61   22.20   18.19   26.53   44.72   20.10   29.28   49.38   22.00   37.63   59.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   71.88  104.05  175.93
MIS-PhaselIEquipment           o.o     o.oo    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.52    2.16    3.68    4.51   10.76   15.27    2.11    0.00    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.14   12.93   21.07
PTRS Infomration Systems       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    1.03    1.31    0.14    0.52    0.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    1.55    1.98
Comp. System to Manage Funds    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.03    0.12    0.15    0.12    0.48    0.60
Subtotal                      11.59   10.61   22.20   18.19   26.53   44.72   21.93   32.59   54.52   26.68   49.03   75.71    2.14    0.12    2.26    0.03    0.12    0.15   80.57  119.01  199.58
Physical Contingencies         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Baseline Estimnate            11.59   10.61   22.20   18.19   26.53   44.72   21.93   32.59   54.52   26.68   49.03   75.71    2.14    0.12    2.26    0.03    0.12    0.15   80.57  119.01  19958
Price Contingencies:
% per Year                     0.00    0.00            1.50    1.50             1.80    1.80            2.60    2.60            2.50    2 50            2.50    2.50
% Compounded                   0.00    0.00            0.75    0.75            2.41    2.41             4.66    4.66            7.33    7.33            10.01   10.01            2.58    2.76    2.68
Amount                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.20    0.34    0.53    0.78    1.31    1.24    2.28    3.52    0.16    0.01    0.17    0.01    0.01    0.02    2.08    3.28    5.36
lolal                         11.sr of R s s0   1MD3   26,73   4L0%    22A6   33.37   55J    27.22   sLin 1 230 IA                      013    2,A3    0.04    OJ3    0.L1   82a.    122.29  204.94
Source:- Ministry of Railways anddmission estimates                                                                                                                                  tIm . 9504-04



Table 3.4: INVESTM         COS   OF TELECOmmuNICATNS UPGRADING COMPONENT (in $ million)
1996                   1997                    1998                   Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Fiber Optic Systems          32.11    3.50   35.61   18.32    6.18   24.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   50.43    9.68   60.11
Digital Microwave             5.15    1.65    6.80    3.23    2.88    6.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.38    4.53   12.91
Satelite Stations             2.89    3.30    6.19    2.90    4.64    7.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.79    7.94   13.73
Data Communications Network   5.77    1.55    7.32    7.45    2.06    9.51    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.22    3.61   16.83
Video Conference Network      4.85    3.57    8.42    4.50    6.04   10.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.35    9.61   18.96
Telecom. Management Network    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.74    2.06    4.80    1.68    1.62    3.30    4.42    3.68    8.10
Service and Training          0.20    0.21    0.41    0.20    0.21    0.41    0.20    0.21    0.41    0.60    0.63    1.23
Subtotal                     50.97   13.78   64.75   39.34   24.07   63.41    1.88    1.83    3.71   92.19   39.68  131.87
Physical Contingencies        5.10    0.69    5.79    3.93    1.20    5.13    0.19    0.09    0.28    9.22    1.98   11.20
Baseline Estimate            56.07   14.47   70.54   43.27   25.27   68.54    2.07    1.92    3.99  101.41   41.66  143.07
Price Contingencies:
'k per Year                  1.800   1.800           2.600   2.600          2.500   2.500
'k Compounded                2.409   2.409           4.662   4.662          7.330   7.330            3.47    4.00    3.63
Amount                        1.35    0.35    1.70    2.02    1.18    3.20    0.15    0.14    0.29    3.52    1.67    5.19
Total                        57.42   14.82   72.24   45.29   26.45   71.74    2.22    2.06    4.28  104.93   43.33  14X.26
Source. Ministry of Railways and mission estimates                                                       UM - 95-03-28



Table 3.5: INVESTMENT COSTS OF CONTAINER TRANSPORT COMMERCIALIZATION COMPONENT (in $ million)
1996                        1997                       Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Containers 20-foot            12.88     0.00    12.88     12.88     0.00    12.88    25.76      0.00    25.76
Containers 40-foot             4.12     0.00      4.12     4.12     0.00      4.12     8.24     0.00      8.24
Rubber Tired Gantry Cranes     0.60     1.75      2.35     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.60      1.75     2.35
Forklift Handler               3.42     9.90    13.32      0.00     0.00      0.00     3.42     9.90     13.32
Reach Stacker                  3.75    10.86    14.61      0.00     0.00      0.00     3.75    10.86    14.61
Highway Tractors               0.91     2.63     3.54      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.91     2.63      3.54
Highway Chassis                0.31     0.00      0.31     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.31     0.00      0.31
X6B Flatcars                  20.60     0.00    20.60    20.60      0.00    20.60    41.20      0.00    41.20
Expand/Upgrade 2 Terminals    20.60     0.00    20.60    20.60      0.00    20.60    41.20      0.00    41.20
Information System             0.00     0.00     0.00      1.37     1.24      2.61     1.37     1.24      2.61
Subtotal                      67.19    25.14    92.33    59.57      1.24    60.81    126.76    26.38   153.14
Physical Contingencies 7.6%    4.70     1.90      6.60     4.17     0.00      4.17     8.87     1.90    10.77
Baseline Estimate             71.89    27.04    98.93    63.74      1.24    64.98   135.63    28.28   163.91
Price Contingencies:
% per Year                     1.80     1.80               2.60     2.60
% Compounded                   2.41     2.41               4.66     4.66               3.47     2.51      3.30
Amount                         1.73     0.65      2.38     2.97     0.06      3.03     4.70     0.71      5.41
Total                         73.62    27.69   101.31    66.71      1.30    68.01    140.33    28.99   169.32
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estimates                                         UM - 95-03-28



Table 3.6: INVESTMENT COsTs OF PELOT ENVIRONMENTAL PRoTECTIoN COMPONENT (in $ million)
1996                    1997                     1998                    Total
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Noise Barrier
Barrier Construction        0.24    0.52    0.76    0.18    0.00    0.18    0.06    0.00    0.06    0.48    0.52    0.99
Nlonitoring Equipment       0.04    0.15    0.19   ()(X)    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.15    0.19
Shenyano Waste                  0.05    0.21    0.26     ) 1'   0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.21    0.43
Taopu Waste                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0. 17    0.31    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.31    0.48
Oily Water Treatment            0.22    0.41    0.63    0.24    0.00    0.24    0.12    0.00    0.12    0.57    0.41    0.98
Beijing Anti-Epidemic Center    0.26    0.82    1.08    0.18    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.82    1.25
Noise Control Projects
Noise Criterion             0.01    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.01
Train Noise Transmission    0.04    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.04
Loco/VIleel Noise           0.01    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.01
Factorv Noise Control       0.02    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.02
In\ ironinentail Assess Training  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.01
Diesel Additive Proorami        0.02    0.08    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.08    0.10
ILunchi Box Management          0.02    0.10    0.13    0.29    1.19    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    1.29    1.60
Techinical Consultation         0.00    0.41    0.41    0.00    0.15    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.56
Subtotal                        0.93    2.70    3.63    1.23    1.65    2.88    0.18    0.00    0.18    2.34    4.35    6.69
Physical Contingencies          0.00    0.07    0.07    0.00    0.04    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.11
Baseline Estimate               0.93    2.77    3.70    1.23    1.69    2.92    0.18    0.00    0.18    2.34    4.46    6.80
Price Contingencies:
-I per Year                     1 .80    1 .80          2.60    2.60             2.50    2.50
'k Compounded                   2,41    2.41            4.66    4.66             7.33    7.33            3.97    3.25    3.50
Amount                          0.02    0.07    0.09    0.06    0.08    0.14    0.01    0.00    0.01    0.09    0.15    0.24
Total                           0.95    2.84    3.79    1.29    1.77    3.06    0.19    0.00    0.19    2.43    4.61    7.04
Sourice: Ministry of Railways and miission estimates                                                          UM - 95-03-28



Table 3.7: INVMESNT COSs OF SYSrEM CAPAcrTy COMPONENT (in $ million)
1997                        1998                         1999                         Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Locomotives                       3.60     15.00     18.60     6.01     25.00    31.01      9.61     40.00    49.61     19.22     80.00    99.22
Spare parts                       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.72      3.00     3.72      0.72      3.00     3.72
Tools, equipments & instrunents   0.00      0.00     0.00     11.40      7.67     19.07     0.00      0.00     0.00     11.40      7.67     19.07
Training                          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.80      1.80     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.80      1.80
Subtotal                          3.60     15.00     18.60    17.41     34.47    51.88     10.33     43.00    53.33     31.34     92.47    123.81
Physical Contingencies            0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Baseline Estimate                 3.60     15.00    18.60     17.41    34.47     51.88     10.33    43.00     53.33     31.34    92.47    123.81
Price Contingencies:
% per Year                        2.60      2.60               2.50      2.50               2.50      2.50
%Compounded                       4.66      4.66               7.33      7.33              10.01     10.01               7.88      8.15     8.08
Amount                            0.17      0.70     0.87      1.27      2.53     3.80      1.03      4.31     5.34      2.47      7.53    10.00
3.77    j&15      19.47     18.68    37 00       M       11.36    47.31     58.67    33.81    100.00    133.81
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estimates                                                                           UM - 95-03-27



Table 3.8: COSMS OF TEcENICAL ASSANcE (in $ million)
1995                   1996                   1997                   1998                    !999                   Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
PID C'mornUjDt5
Railway Restructuring and Enterprise Reform  0.00    0.07    0.07    0.00    0.31    0.31    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.38
RailwayTariff Reform                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.10
Labor Productivity                          0.00    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.15
Investment Components
Container Transport Consulting Support      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.41    0.00    0.41    0.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.82    0.82
Study Comoonents
Feasibility Study Dedicated Passenger Rail  0.00    0.21    0.21    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.31
ApplicationofRIS Decision Support System    0.00    0.07    0.07    0.00    0.03    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.10
Feasibility Study for new Information System  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.52
Expanding'TMISSystem                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.21
Telecommunications Network Study            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.26    0.00    0.26    0.26    0.00    1.03    1.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    1.55
Diesel Engine Design                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.72    0.78    0.06    0.62    0.68    0.06    0.21    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    1.55    1.72
Restructuring Manufacturing Sector          0.00    0.41    0.41   000    0.52    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.93
Resource Mobilization                                                                                                                                                                      0%
00
Strengthening of Treasury Function       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    0.05    0.05    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.16     1
Issuingof Bonds                          000    0.00    000    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.00    0.48    0.48
Subtottal                                   0.00    0.84    0.84    0.06    3.17    3.23    0.06    1.72    1.78    0.06    1.41    1.47    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.18    7.26    7.44
Physical Contingencies                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Bttseline Estimate                          0.00    0.84    0.84    0.06    3.17    3.23    0.06    1.72    1.78    0.06    1.41    1.47    0.00    0.12    0.12    0.18    7.26    7.44
Price Contingencies:
% per Year                                  1.50    1.50           1.80    1.80           2.60    2.60            2.50    2.50           2.50    2.50
% Compounded                                0.75    0.75           2.41    2.41           4.66    4.66            7.33    7.33          10.01   10.01           0.00    3.83    3.72
Amount                                      0.00    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.08    0.08    0.00    0.10    0.10    0.00    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.28    0.28
0.00    0.85    0.85    0.06    3.25    3.31    0.06    1.80    1.86    0.06    LSI    1.57    0.00    0.13    013I   0.18    7.54    7.72
Smer(c  NUinilry lR;ai wiys ad missionrsimatcs                                                                                                                       lNi 95 04(06



Table 3.9: IMPLEMEWrAAnON SCHEDULE
1995             1996       J       1997
ID   Name                                        Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F 041Q1|02  Q3  04  01  02  Q3  04  01  02  03  04  Q1
1   CHINA: Seventh Railway Project                356.8w      94/3/1   00/12/29  _        .
2          Loan effectiveness                       0.2w       95/9/1     95/9/1           I
3       Wuhan - Guangzhou Line                    252.4w       94/3/1   98/12/30  _                                                         _
4           Survey and Design Equipment           105.4w     94/12/1    96/12/6
5               ICB procurement                    79.4w     94/12/1      96/67 _7
6                   FCO instruction to 4. Design In  50d    94/12/1       95/2/8           - 2/_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2 / 6
7                   Preparation of Technical Specs   1ow     94/12/1      95/2/8   O      i
8                   Input from Railway Adnmin        low     94/12/1      95/2/8         2/
9                   Input from MOR, P-way Bureau     low       95/2/9    95/4/19            4/19
10                  Input from MOR, Electronics Bu   low       95/2/9    95/4/19  _      a4/19                                                        ON
11                  Input from MOR, Loco Bureau      low       95/2/9    95/4/19       g    4/19
12                  Input from MOR, Rolling St. Bur  low       95/2/9    95/4/19            4/19
13                  Input from MOR, Construction     lOw       95/2/9    95/4/19            4/19
14                  Draft Specs sent to FCO         0.2w       95/2/9      95/2/9
15                  FCO prelim review                2.8w     95/2/10      95/3/1
16                      Planning Div.: List of Good    2d    95/2/10    95/2/13
I__ _ _                I  2/f 3
17                      Procurement Div.: SAR - te     2d    95i2il4    95/2/15         I2/15                                               _ _
18                      Tech. Bureaus of MOR          2w      95/2/16      95/3/1       | 31
19                  Draft Specs sent to State Evalu    0.2w    95/3/2      95/3/2         312
20                   Review by State Evaluation Offi  4w       95/3/3    95/3/30  _           O/30                                           _
21                  ITC to prepare Commercial doc'    4w       95/3/3    95/3/30  -                     _/30
Page: 1                            Critical                        Progress                        Summary
Date: 95/4/21                      Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up O



Table 3.9: (CONT'D)
1995             1996             1997
ID   Narne                                         Duration Scheduled  Scheduled F   Ql Q1 02  0 Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2 Q3  Q4  Q1  02  03  04
22                  Translation of Spec into English    4w      95/3/3    95/3/30        3/30
23                  Correction of translation of Specs  2w     95/3/31    95/4/13         U 4/13
24                  Approved draft Specs sent to ITC b    0.2w  95/4/14    95/4/14        | 4/14
25                 ITC completes Commercial doc's       1w     95/4/17    95/4/21         i 4/21
26                  Mailing of doc's to Bank bV ITC     1 w    95/4/24    95/4/28          I 4/28
27                  Bank approval                       3w      95/5/1    95/5/19            5/19
28                  Printing of documnents              1 w    95/5/22    95/5/26         *  5/26
29                  Publication in Gazette              2w     95/5/22     95/6/2           I 6/2
30                  Bid period                        60ed      95/6/5     95/8/4                8/4
31                  Bid evaluation                   21.2w      95/8/4     96/1/1
32                      Evaluation by MOR            150ed      95/8/4     96/1/1                       1/1
33                      Review of draft eval report by  150ed   95/8/4     96/1/1                       1/1
34                      State Evaluation Office approv    150ed  95/8/4    96/1/1                       1/1
35                 ITC sends evaluation report to Bank  1 w     96/1/1     96/15  _                        /5
36                  Bank review & 'no objection'        4w      96/1/8     96/2/2         .              2/2
37                  Signing of contract. ITC            4w      96/2/5     96/3/1                          3
38                  Mailing of 2 contracts to Bank, ITC  1 w    96/3/4     96/3/8         .                3/8
39                  Bank's agreement to finance contra  1 w    96/3/11    96/3/15                         I 3/15
40                  Establishing the L/C by ITC        25d    96/3/18    96/4/19                             4/19
41                  Mailing of L/C to Bank              1w     96/4/22    96/4/26  _                         4/26
42                  Bank declares L/C irrevocable      30d    96/4/29      9616/7
Page: 2                           Critical                       Progress                      Summary  ~W
Date: 95/4/11                     Noncritical                    Milestone  *                  Rolled Up O



Table 3.9: (coNr'D)
1995             1996              1997              1998
ID   Name                           Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F Q4  Q1  0Q2  03   4Q01  02I Q3  Q4   l1 02  Q3  04  01  0 Q2  0 Q3  0Q4
43                  Begin of delivery    Ow       96/6/7     9616/7
44              Delivery of Survey &    26w     96/6/10    96/1216
45           Preperational Engineering  119w      94/3/1    96/6/10                                6/10
46           Substructure              170w       947/1     97/10/2  _I .
47              Earthworks             170w       941/1    97/10/2                                                        101 2
48              Auxiliary Works        117w       950/1     97/9/26          .                                            9/26
49           Bridges and culverts      144w      94/10/1     970/4  __
50               Long & Middle Sized   144w      94/10/1     9717/4
51              Small Bridges & Culv    117w      95/3/1    97/5/27
52           Tunnels                   144w      94/10/1     97_7/4
53          Tracks                     144w     94/10/1      970/4 g         _
54           Commnunications Equipme   183.6w    95/6/26   98/12/30
55              Transmrission Equipm   157.4w    95/6/26    98/6/30          . _
56                  ICB procurement   79.4w     95/6/26   96/12/31
57                  Delivery of equip   26w       97/1/1     97_7/1
58                  Installation        39w       970/2    98/3/31
59                  Operational testi   13w       98/4/1    98/6/30
60              Exchange Equipment   157.4w    95/12/26   98/12/30
61                  1CB procurement   79.4w    95/12/26      9707/2
62                  Delivery of equip   26w       970/3   97/12/31
63                  Instalaton          39w       98/1/1    98/9/30
Page: 3                           Critical                        Progress                        Summary        r       r
Date: 95/4/11                      Noncritical                    Milestone  *                    Rolled Up  O



Table 3.9: (coNT'D)
1995            1996              1997            1998
ID   Name                                Duration Scheduled  Scheduled F Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3  Q4 01 | Q2 | 03 | Q4 01  Q2 Q3 04
64                  Operational testing      13w    98/10/1   98/12/30
65              Transmission Unes           117w      95/7/1    97/9126 .
66                  Local procurement        52w      951711    96/6/28                       6/28
67                 Delivery of equipment     26w      96/4/1    96/9/27
68                  Installation             52w      96/7/1    97/6/27
69                 Operetional testing       13w     97/6/30    97/9/26 .
70              Power Equipment              72w      96WM2   97/11/17
71                  Local procurement        26w      96/7/2   96/12/30                               12/30
72                 Delivery of equipment     13w   96/12/31    97/3/31
73                 Installation              26w      97/4/1    97/9/29
74                  Operational testing      13w     97/8/19   97/11/17                                                                        t'
75          Signalling Equipment          157.4w     95/6/25    98/6/30
76             ICB procurement             79.4w     95/6/25   96/12/31
77              Delivery of equipment        26w      97/1/1     97/7/1
78             Installation                  39w      97/7/2    98/3/31
79              Operational Testing          13w      98/4/1    98/6/30
80          Electrifications Equipment       52w     97/1/27    98/1/23
81             Installation                  39w     97/1/27   97/10/24 i                                l     l    10/24
82              Operational Testing          13w   97/10/27    98/1/23
83      Information Systems               161.8w     95/1/21    98/2/26
84          TMIS Equipment                161.8w     95/1/21    98/2/26
Page: 4                          Critical            -          Progress                      Summary
Date: 95/4/11                    Noncritical                    Milestone  *                  Rolled Up  O



Table 3.9: (CONT'D)
1995            1996       |      1997             1
ID   Name                                Duration Schaduled  Scheduled F 04  Ql1 02  0 03 0 04  1  0Q2   Q3  04  01  02   3    Q4 01  Q2
85             ICB procurement             79.4w     95/5/24   96/11/28                                       11128
86              Delivery of mini- & yard co  13w    96/11/29    97/2/27
87             Implementation                52w     9712/28    9812/26                                                 -
88             ICB procurement             79.4w     95/1/21    96nt130                                 7130
89              Delivery of HQ LAN equipme   13w     96/7/31   96/10/29
90             Implementation                 4w   96/10/30   96/11/26
91          MIS Phase I                     105w     95/1/21    97/1/24
92             ICB procurement             79.4w     95/3/23    96/9/27
93              Delivery of mainframe, Trg. C  13w   96/9/30   96/12/27         .
94             Implementation                 4w    96/12/30    97/1/24
95             ICB procurement             79.4w     95/1/21    96n/30                 .                7/30
96              Delivery of eq. for CARS, Uni    13w  96/7/31   96/10/29                                -
97              Implementation                4w   96/10/30   96/11/26
98          PTRS Information Systems        141 w    95/5/15    98/1/23
99              Preparation of TOR           15w     95/5/15    95/8/25                 8/25
100             Hiring of consultants         16w     95/8/28   95/12/15
101             Implementation              104w      96/1/29    98/1/23                             -
102         Comp. System to Manage Funds     89w       95/9/1    97/5/15         .                                  r
103             Preparation of TOR            15w      95/9/1   95/12/14                     1214
104             Hiring of consultants         16w   95/12/15      96/4/4
105             Iplementation                52w      96/5(17    97/5/15
Page: 5                          Critical                       Progress                      Summary
Date: 95/4/1 1                   Noncritical                    Milestone  *                  Rolled Up  0



Table 3.9: (CONV'D)
95      1      1996                         1 1997  1998             1999
ID   Name                            Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F Q3  Q4   1l Q2   3  04  0l1  Q2  03  0Q4 I1 Q2   3 Q4 Ql  02 Q3
106      Telecommunications           218.4w      95/9/25   99/11/30                                                                      -
107          Fiber Optic System       105.4w       96/1/2      98/1/7
108              ICB procurement       79.4w       96/1/2      97/7/9                                      79
109              Delivery of equipmen    52w    96/10/10    97110/8
110              Installation            52w       97/1/9      9811 _7
I1I          Digital Microwave        144.4w      95/9/25    98/6/30
112              ICB procurement       79.4w      95/9/25      97/4/1                                 4/1
113              DeliverV of equipmen    52w      96/10/2    97/9/30
114              Installation            52w       97/7/2    98/6/30                                             -
115          Sattelite Stations       1 1 3.4w     96/7/1      98/9/1
116              ICB procurement       79.4w       9617/1      98/1/6                           EMFI71lEm  1/6                                         4
117              DeliverV of equipmen    52w       97/3/5      98/3/3
118              Installation            52w       97/9/3      98/9/1
119          Data Communications Ne   131.4w       96/4/1    98/10/6
120              ICB procurement       79.4w       96/4/1    97/10/7
121              Delivery of equipmen    52w       97/1/8     98/1/6
122              Installation            52w      97/10/8    98/10/6
123          Video Conference Networ  118.4w      96/7/25   98/10/30
124              ICB procurement       79.4w      96/7/25    98/1/30                                                 1/30
125              DeliverV of equipmen    52w       97/8/4    98/7/31                                              -
126              Installation            52w      97/11/3   98/10/30
Page: 6                            Critical                        Progress                        Summary  l
Date: 95/4/11                      Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up O



Table 3.9: (coNTI'D)
95            1996             1997      [      1998            1999
ID   Name                         Duration Scheduled  Scheduled F Q3   4 01  02  03 104 Q1 I2 0Q3 |04 l   02   03  04  01  Q 02 Q3
127         Telecom. Management N   131.4w    97/4/24   99/10/29
128            ICB procurement       79.4w    97/4/24   98/10/30                                                          10/30
129             Delivery of equipmen  52w      98/2/2    99/1/29
130             Installation          52w     98/11/2   99/10/29
131         Services & Training      187w      96/5/1   99/11/30
132             Preparation of TOR    1Sw      96/5/1    96/8/13                    8/13
133             Hiring of consultants  16w    96/8/14    96/12/3
134             implementation       1 50w    97/1/15   99/11/30
135      Container Transport Commerci  111.2w  95/5/20    9717/7
136         ICD procurement          79.4w     95/9/1    97/3/10                              3/1l0
137         Delivery of equipment     26w      97/1 7     97/7/7                                                                            Ut
138         Container Transp. Info Sy  89w    95/5/20    97/1/31
139             Preparation of TOR    15w     95/5/20     95/9/1    9/1
140             Hiring of consultants  16w     95/9/4   95/12/22
141             Implementation        52w      96/2/5    97/1/31  =        _
142      Pilot Environmental Protection   241.2w  95/7/3    00/2/14
143         Noise Barrier Equipment  209w      95/7/3     99/7/2
144             Local procurement     65w      95/7/3    96/9/27                      9/27
145             Deliverv of equipmen  13w     96/9/30   96/12/27
146             Construction          65w   96/12/30    98/3/27
147             Testing               52w      98/1/5     99/1/1
Page: 7                          Critical                      Progress                      Summary
Date: 95/4/11                    Noncritical                   Milestone  *                  Rolled Up O



Table 3.9: (CONT'D)
_  5s          1996               1997              1998               1999
ID   Name                             Duration  Scheduled   Scheduled F Q3  04  Ql Q2  Q30 Q4  Q1l Q2   3  Q4  Ql0  02  03 4 Q1  02  03
148               Report                  26w       99/1/4      991712
149           Shenyan Waste              140w       9517/3      98/3/6
150               Local procurement       52w       95f713     96/6/28                     6/28
151               Delivery of equipmen    13w       961/1      96/9/27
152               Construction            26w       96/9/9      97/317
153               Testing                 26w      97/3/10      97/9/5
154               Report                  34w      9717/14      98/3/6                                      -
155           Taopu Waste              196.4w      95/10/1      99f7/6
156               ICB procurement       79.4w      95/10/1      97/4/8
157               Delivery of equipmen    13w       97/4/9      9717/B
158               Construction            26w       9717/9      98/1/6
159               Testing                 52w       98117       99/1/5
160               Report                  26w       99/1/6      99f7/6                                                                      -
161           Oily Water Treatment     196.4w      95/10/1      99f7/6  _W_m_                                                                 i n
162               ICB procurement       79.4w      95/10/1      97/4/8                                   4/8
163               Delivery of equipmen    13w       97/4/9      9717/8
164               Construction            26w       97f7/9      98/1/6
165               Testing                 52w       98117       99/1/5
166               Report                  26w       99/1/6      9917/6
167           Beijing Anti-Epidemic Cen   174.4w    95/9/1      99/1/4           __     *     _     *    _     _
168              ICB procurement        79.4w       95/9/1     97/3/10                                 3/10
Page: 8                             Critical                         Progress                         Summary             _
Date: 95/4/11                       Noncritical                      Milestone  *                     Rolled Up  O



Table 3.9: (coNT'D)
95             1996             1997              1998             1999
ID   Nrme                           Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F 03  Q4 Q C 02 Q3 04 01  02 Q3  Q4 01  02  03  04  Q1  02 Q3
169              Delivery of aquipmen    4w     97/3/11      971417
170              Calibration and testin  65w      97/4/8     9817/6
171              Report                 26w       98n7/7     99/1/4
172          Noise Control Projects    197w       95/9/1    99/6/10                                                              _   _
173              Preparation of TOR     15w       95/9/1   95/12/14         12/14
174              Hiring consultants     16w     96/2(23    9616/13
175              TA and reports        143w     96/9/13    99/6/10
176          Environmental Asseasme     96w     97/2/27   98/12/30                             _
177              Preparation of TOR     15w     97/2/27    97/6/11                                    6/11
178              Hiring consultants     16w     97/6/12    97/10;1
179              TA and reports         52w      98/1/1   98/12/30                                                         ___
180          Diesel Additive Program   106w      95/9/1    97/9/11  _l                                   _
181              Preparation of TOR &   15w      95/9/1   95/12/14          12/14
182              Hiring consultants     16w     96/2/23    96/6/13
183              Local purchase          4w     96/6/14    96/7/11
184              TA                     52w     96/6/14    9716/12                      -                     _
185              Report                 13w     97/6/13    97/9/11
186          Lunch Box Management   232.4w       95/9/1    00/2/14                                                                    - _
187              Preparation of TOR     15w      95/9/1   95/12/14          12/14
188              Hiring consultants     16w     96/1/19      96/5/9
189              TA and reports         39w     96/5/10      97/2/61
Page: 9                           Critical                       Progress                       Summary  _
Date: 95/4/11                     Noncritical                    Milestone  *                    Rolled Up O



Table 3.9:  (CONT'D)
1995              1996       r     1997              1998
ID   Name                            Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F 02Q03l04  01|Q2  Q3  04 IQl1021 0|3 0Q            i02  03  04  Q 01 2
190              ICB procurement       79.4w      96/11/8    98/5/18 .                                     _             -
191              Delivery                26w      98/5/19   98/11/16 .                                                           -
192              Construction and tes    65w    98/11/17    00/2/14
193              Report                  13w    99/11/16    00/2/14
194          Technical Consultation     141w       96/1/3    98/9/15 *
195              Preparation of TOR      1Sw       96/1/3    96/4t16                     4/16
196              Hiring consultants      16w      96/4/17      96/8/6
197              Implementation         104w      96/9/18    98/9/15 .
198      System Capacity Expansion      296w       95/5/1   00/12/29                                                                        -
199          Preparation of list of bidd  3.2w     95/5/1     95/5/22  0 5/22
200          Preparation of draft biddin    3.2w   95/5/1     95/5/22 1 5/22
201          Draft bidding doc'd sent t   lw      95/5/23    95/5/29
202          List of bidders to Bank      Ow       95/6/1      95/6/1
203          Bank approval of list & bi   2w       95/6/1     95/6/14
204          Invitations to bid issued  0.8w      95/6/15    95/6/20 ,
205          Bidders' clarification meet  Ow      95/7/15     957/1 5
206          Revised bidding doc's sen  2.4w      95r7/17      95/891    i   8/1
207          Bank approval               1.3w      95/8/2    95/8/10       l 8/10
208          Bid period                 5.2w      95/8/15    95/9/20           9/20
209          Bid opening                  Ow      95/9/20    95/9/20
210          Bid evaluation            20.5w      95/9/20      96/2/9
Page: 10                           Critical                        Progress                        Summary
Date: 95/4/21                      Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up  O



Table 3.9: (CONT'D)
1996            1997             1998             1999
ID   Name                         Duration Scheduled  Scheduled F Q4 Q1  Q2 0 03 Q4 Q1  02 Q3 Q4 01   Q2, 03   4  1   2 Q3  04
211             Evaluation by MOR    17.4w    95/9/20    96/1/19       1/19
212             State Evaluation Offi    3.1w  96/1/19     9612/9     * 2/9
213         ITC sends evaluation repo    0.2w  96/2/12    96/2/12       2/12
214         Bank review & 'no object    6.2w    96/2/13    96/3/26        3/26
215         Signing of contract, ITC  7.2w    96/3/27    96/5/15            5/15
216         Mailing of 2 contracts to  0.5w   96/5/16    96/5/20           I 5/20
217         Bank's agreement to fina  0.7w    96/5/20    96/5/23           | 5/23
218         Establishing the L/C by IT  4w    96/5/24    96/6/20              6/20
219         Mailing of L/C to Bank      1 w    96/6/21    96/6/27           | 6/27
220         Bank declares L/C irrevoc  0.4w    96/6/28    9617/1             | 7/1
221         Begin of delivery period   Ow      9617/1     96/7/1
222         Design of loco's by suppli    39w  9617/2    97/3/31                           3/31
223         Manufacture of locomotiv    156w   97/1/2   99/12/29
224         Testing of locomotives   130w      97/4/3    99/9/29
225         First batch shipment      26w    97/10/2      98/4/1
226         Second batch shipment     39w      98r7/2    99/3/31
227         Third batch shipment      52w      99/4/1    00/3/29
228         Shipment of spares        13w    99/9/30   99/12/29
229         Shipment of tools, equip   13w     9817/2    98/9/30
230         Training of Chinese staff    195w  9617/2    00/3/27 
231         Transfer of technology to  234.8w  9617/2   00/12/29              /
Page: 11                         Critical                      Progress                     Summary
Date: 95/4/21                    Noncritical                   Milestone  *                  Rolled Up O



Table 3.9: (coNT'D)
__                                                _                     11995 | 1996   1997    1
ID   Name                                 Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F 04  01 | Q2 1 03 Q 04) 01 02 03  04 01 02 0              i 102
232      Technical Assistance               264.4w     94/12/1   99/12/24                                                             m
233          PID Components                 160.4w     94/12/1   97112126  9           =
234              Ply Restructuring, Enterprise   160.4w  94/12)1   97/12/26  9                                                     p
235                  Preparation of TOR        26w     94/12/1    95/5/31     5131
236                  Hiring of consultants     37w     95/3/16   95/11/29              a
237                 Inplementation            130w      95/7/3   97/12/26
238              Labor Productivity           104w      95/1/1   96/12/27
239                  Preparation of TOR        17w      95/3/1    95/6/27               6/27
240                  Hiring of consultants     17w      95/7/3   95/10/27
241                 Implementation            104w      95/1/1   96/12/27                                         12/27
242              RailwaV Tariff Reform       78.2w     95/9/30    97/3/31          .        _            _
243                  Implementation          78.2w     95/9/30    97/3/31
244          Investment Components            141w      95/5/1      98/1/9
245              Container Transport Cons. S  141w      95/5/1      98/1/9
246                  Preparation of TOR        15w      95/5/1    95/8/11 i811
247                  Hiring of consultants     16w     95/8/14    95/12/1
248                  Implementation           104w     9611/15      98/1/9
249          Study Components                 258w     951/15   99112/24                                                              m
250              Preparation of TOR            15w     95/11/15    95/4/28           4/28
251              Hiring consultants            16w      95/5/1    95/8/18
252              FS Dedicated Passenger Rail   65w     95/10/2   96/12127
Page: 12                          Critical                       Progress                       Summary
Date: 95/4/11                     Noncritical                    Milestone  *                   Rolled Up  0



Table 3.9: (CONT'D)
95             1996              1997              1998              1999
ID   Name                            Duration Scheduled   Scheduled F 03   4 Q4Ql Q2|Q3|4  01  02  0 43  04 1Q Q0 Q             04  QlQ2  03
253                  Implementation      65w      95/10/2   96/12127   ___
254              Application of RIS De   65w      95110/2   96/12/27                   MM=*
255                  Implementation      65w      95/10/2   96/12/27
256              Restructuring Manuf     65w      95/10/2   96/12/27
257                  Impiementation      65w      95/10/2   96/12/27
258              Preparation of TOR      15w      95/5/30    95/9/11    - 9/11 
259              Hiring consultants      22w      95/12/5      96/5/6
260              FS New Information      52w      96/6/18    97/6/16                             _     W
261                  Implementation      52w      96/6/18    97/6/16
262              Telecom. Network St    156w      96/6/18    99/6/14
K-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~00
263                  Implementation     156w      96/6/18    99/6/14
264              Diesel Engine Design   156w      96/6/18    99/6/14
265                  Implementation     156w      96/6/18    99/6/14                 _          I  --        -      _         - - t
266              Resource Mobilizatio    245w     95/4/16   99/12/24                                                                      -
267                  Preparation of T    15w      95/4/16    95/7/28   7/28
268                  Hiring consultant   16w      95r7/31   95/11/17
269                  Treasury Functio    96w       96/1/1   97/10/31                           -_
270                     implementat      96w       96/1/1   97/10/31
271                  Issuing Bonds      208w       96/1/1   99/12/24
272                      Implementat    208w       96/1/1   99/12/24
Page: 13                           Critical                        Progress                        Summary  _           
Date: 95/4/11                      Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up O



- 82 -
Table 3.10: CUMULATIVE DLSBuRSEmET ScHEDuLE La
China
IBRD Fiscal               Estimated Disbursements          All Sector
Year and            Quarter   Cumulative                Disbursement
Quarter                  US$million           %          Profile /b
FY 96   Mar. 31, 1996          2.5         2.5         0.6           0.0
Jun. 30, 1996        7.5         10.0        2.5            3.0
FY 97    Sep. 30, 1996        10.0        20.0         5.0
Dec. 31, 1996        10.0        30.0         7.5           6.0
Mar. 31, 1997         10.0       40.0        10.0
Jun. 30, 1997        12.0        52.0        13.0          14.0
FY 98    Sep. 30, 1997        10.0        62.0        15.5
Dec. 31, 1997        20.0        82.0        20.5          26.0
Mar. 31, 1998        25.0        107.0       26.8
Jun. 30, 1998        25.0        132.0       33.0          38.0
FY 99   Sep. 30, 1998         30.0        162.0       40.5
Dec. 31, 1998        40.0        202.0       50.5          50.0
Mar. 31, 1999        26.0        228.0       57.0
Jun. 30, 1999        24.0       252.0        63.0          62.0
FY 00    Sep. 30, 1999        22.0        274.0       68.5
Dec. 31, 1999        20.0        294.0       73.5          70.0
Mar. 31, 2000         18.0       312.0       78.0
Jun. 30, 2000        15.0       327.0        81.8          78.0
FY01    Sep. 30, 2000         13.0        340.0       85.0
Dec. 31, 2000         10.0       350.0       87.5          86.0
Mar. 31, 2001         7.5        357.5       89.4
Jun. 30, 2001         6.0       363.5        90.9          90.0
FY 02    Sep. 30, 2001        10.0        373.5       93.4
Dec. 31, 2001         9.5        383.0       95.8          94.0
Mar. 31, 2002         7.5        390.5       97.6
Jun. 30, 2002         5.5       396.0        99.0          96.0
FY 03    Sep. 30, 2002         3.0        399.0       99.8
Dec. 31, 2002         1.0       400.0        100.0         98.0
Mar. 31, 2003         ).0        400.0       100.0         100.0
/a Assuming Board Date in May 1995                                  UM - 95-04-06
lb World Bank: China, All Sectors (November 1994 )



Table 4.1: ERR AND NPV CALCULATIONS FOR TEIE CORRIDOR EXPANSION COMPONENT
(in Yuan million)
COSTS
Complementary Investments in                  BENEFITS
Net       Net       Electric     Electric              Operating    Diverted
Project    Rolling  Fixed       Power      Catenary     Resettle-    Expense    Traffic  NET
Year          Investment   Stock     Plant    Generation   Maintenance   ment      Savings    Benefits  BENEFITS
1994            501.03     0.00      -493.82     0.00         0.00        3.31       0.00        0.00     -10.52
1995           3,223.23    0.00    -2,572.00     0.00         0.00       23.66       0.00        0.00    -674.89
1996           3,453.68    0.00    -2,572.00     0.00         0.00       55.57       0.00        0.00    -937.25
1997           1,797.31    0.00    -1,954.72    907.50        0.00       42.93       0.00        0.00    -793.02
1998            713.99    29.21    -1,337.44    907.50        0.00       14.75       0.00        0.00    -328.01
1999              0.00     0.00      -843.62     0.00        74.46        0.00     608.00       77.50    1,454.66
2000              0.00     0.00      -720.16     0.00        74.46        0.00     641.00       77.50    1,364.20
2001           1,954.72    0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     642.00      142.40   -1,244.78
2002              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00      262.04     831.58
2003              0.00   805.21        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00      481.94     246.27
2004              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00      885.89    1,455.44
2005              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2006              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2007              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2008           2,417.68    0.00    -2,469.12     0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,250.37
2009              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2010              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2011              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2012              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2013              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2014              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2015              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2016              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2017              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2018           2,417.68    32.33       0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    -251.09
2019              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2020              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2021              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2022              0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00     1,629.39    2,198.93
2023           3,477.34   805.21       0.00      0.00        74.46        0.00     644.00    1,629.39   -2,083.63
ERR=26.10%
NPV at 12 %=4,122.80



- 84 -
Table 4.2: ERR AND NPV CALCULATIONS FOR
INFORMATION SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION COMPONENT
(in Yuan Million)
COSTS                   BENEFITS              NET
Year         Project Investment        Avoided Investment    BENEFITS
1994             258.42                                        -258.42
1995             407.66                                        -407.66
1996             463.20                                        -463.20
1997             539.48                                        -539.48
1998              35.88                                         -35.88
1999                                        1,750.00          1,750.00
2000                                        1,750.00           1,750.00
2001                                        1,750.00          1,750.00
2002                                        1,750.00           1,750.00
2003                                        1,750.00           1,750.00
2004                                        1,750.00          1,750.00
2005                                        1,750.00          1,750.00
2006                                        1,750.00           1,750.00
2007                                        1,750.00           1,750.00
ERR=42.23%
NPV at 12%=4,042.31



- 85 -
Table 4.3: ERR AND NPV CALCuLATIONS FOR
TELECOMMUNCATIONS UPGRADING COMPONENT
(in Yuan million)
BENEFITS
COSTS            Avoided        Induced
Project          Capital         Traffic        NET
Year       Investment        Investment      Benefits      BENEFITS
1994        1,237.00             0.00           0.00       -1,237.00
1995        2,219.00             0.00           0.00       -2,219.00
1996        2,075.00         1,400.00        1,347.86        672.86
1997        2,075.00         1,400.00        1,347.86        672.86
1998        2,075.00         1,400.00        1,347.86        672.86
1999        1,837.50         1,400.00        1,347.86        910.36
2000        1,837.50          1,400.00       1,347.86        910.36
2001           0.00          1,400.00        1,347.86       2,747.86
2002           0.00           1,400.00       1,347.86       2,747.86
2003           0.00           1,400.00       1,347.86       2,747.86
2004           0.00           1,400.00       1,347.86       2,747.86
2005           0.00          1,400.00        1,347.86       2,747.86
2006           0.00           1,400.00       1,347.86       2,747.86
2007           0.00           1,400.00       1,347.86       2,747.86
ERR=30.19%
NPV at 12%=4,960.61



- 86 -
Table 4.4: ERR AND NPV CALCULAT1oNS FOR
CONTAINER TRANSPORT COMMERCIALIZATION COMPONENT
(in Yuan million)
COSTS                  BENEFITS
Project          Diverted           Savings From      NET
Year    Investment       Traffic Benefits       Break-bulk    BENEFITS
1995      580.73                                                -580.73
1996      664.25                                                -664.25
1997                         338.23              106.58          444.82
1998                         338.23              106.58          444.82
1999                         338.23              106.58          444.82
2000                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2001                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2002                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2003                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2004                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2005                         338.23               106.58         444.82
2006                         338.23               106.58         444.82
ERR=29.01%
NPV at 12%=955.57



Table 4.5: ERR AND NPV CALCULATIONS FOR TME SYSTEM CAPACrrY ExPANSION COMPONENT
(in Yuan million)
BENEFITS
COSTS                      Operating    Induced
Year      Project     Complementary      Total      Expense       Traffic      Total       NET
Investment    Investment        Costs      Savings      Benefits    Benefits    BENEFITS
1997       130.50          -69.12         61.38       0.00          0.00        0.00       -61.38
1998       356.40        1,876.53       2,232.93      2.24        253.10       255.34    -1,977.59
1999       374.10        3,120.78       3,494.88      5.95        770.46       776.41    -2,718.47
2000                     5,295.84       5,295.84      11.90      1,735.56    1,747.46    -3,548.38
2001                                                  11.90      1,930.19    1,942.09     1,942.09
2002                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2003                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2004                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2005                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2006                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2007                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2008                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2009                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2010                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2011                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2012                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2013                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2014                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2015                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2016                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
2017                                                  11.90      2,124.82    2,136.72    2,136.72
ERR=20.54%
NPV at 12%=3,736.14



I



- 89 -                         ANNEX 1
BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION IN TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.        Through June 1994, the Bank Group had loaned about $4.53 billion to China
under 29 projects for the transport sector (see Table 1.6 for Summary Statistics) and is
now preparing several new transport sector projects.
2.        The railway subsector has received $1,785 million in Bank Group funding:
six loans to the national railway system (Loans 2394-CHA; 2540-CHA; 2678-CHA/Credit
1680-CHA; Loans 2968-CHA; 3406-CHA; and 3581-CHA) and one loan to the local
railway system (Loan 3060-CHA/Credit 2014-CHA). These projects have helped the
government expand capacity on key routes and modernize the technology for manufacturing
electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling equipment. The local railway
project is financing the construction of a line in Inner Mongolia. The most recently
approved project is assisting MOR with railway policy and management initiatives;
institutional development of the railway system; expansion of railway capacity; and
modernization of railway technology on a systemwide basis. The audit of the First
Railway Project noted that physical components were well executed and that macropolicy
adjustments, especially in the area of tariff reforms, and investment prioritization were
likely to have the highest impact; these conclusions are being considered in the currently
proposed railway project. The project completion report for the Second Railway Project
is currently under way.
3.        The highway subsector has received $1,669 million in Bank Group financing
under 11 projects (Loans 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CHA/ Credit 1792-
CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-CHA; Loan
3073-CHA/Credit2O25-CHA; Loans 3471-CHA; 3530-CHA; 3681-CHA; and 3748-CHA).
These projects provide for the construction of high-quality national and provincial roads
totaling about 2,180 km, and the expansion and improvement of some 6,851 km of rural
(lower class provincial, county, village) roads and major bridges. When completed, some
of these roads will help to provide vital missing links in the national highway network;
others will help to ease severe congestion in parts of the network or provide access to
remote areas. The projects are also designed to provide foreign technical assistance and
training of Chinese personnel in areas such as supervision and quality control of road
construction, design, and planning. Finally, the projects support studies on key issues of
highway development such as road safety, pavement management, user charges, and
methods of financing the expansion, improvement, and rehabilitation of the road network.
The First Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA) is completed; a Project
Completion Report was issued in May 1992.
4.        The ports subsector has received $715 million of Bank Group financing under
eight projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2877-CHA/Credit 1845-CHA, Loan 2907-



- 90-                          ANNEX 1
CHA/Credit 1875-CHA, Loans 3006-CHA, 3007-CHA; Credit 5623-CHA; and Loan
3552-CHA). Most of the loan funds are being used in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian,
Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xiamen for construction of terminals, jetties, and berths for
handling bulk commodities, general cargo, and containers, as well as the dredging of
navigation channels. Funds also have been used for training, technical assistance, and
various studies such as port planning, operations management, and containerization. The
audit report of the first port project, found the project successfully completed, on time and
below cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic port investment, planning
ports and improving prequalification procedures; recommendations on the former point
have been incorporated in the preparation of the recent Shanghai Port Restoration and
Development project, and recommendations on the latter have been taken into account in
the discussion of procurement procedures in transport projects under preparation. The
Ship Waste Disposal Project (FY92) involves cofinancing between the International
Development Association (IDA) and the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to improve
ways for disposal of ship effluents and thus reduce pollution of international and territorial
waters caused by ships' waste. The recent Shanghai Port Project (FY93) focuses on
restructuring and long-term port development with a complementary technical assistance
and training component targeting institutional and financial reforms.
5.        The urban transport subsector has received $210 million of Bank Group
financing under two projects (Credit 2296-CHA and Loan 3652-CHA). These two urban
transport projects are intended as a first stage of a long-term program to upgrade and
develop urban infrastructure in Shanghai. They finance capacity increases of key urban
links as well as traffic management and safety upgrades and assist the Shanghai
Metropolitan Govemment to strengthen public sector management capacity by improving
the planning and management of the urban transport system.
6.        One multimodal project was approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-CHA/Credit 2226-
CHA, $154 million) to improve provincial transport in Jiangsu. While the main focus of
this project is on rehabilitating the provincial road network, the project includes the first
loan to the inland waterway subsector to rehabilitate a section of the Grand Canal and
expand an important shiplock.



SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS RAILWAY PROJECTS
Component             |                                           Project Description and Objectives                                          Loan/Credit
Am'ount
(S millUion) I
RAILWAY I
1. Xinxiang-Yanzhou Une          Conosction of single track between Xinxiang and Heze (165 kin, including a 10 km long bridge); and upgrading             113.0
and capacity
increa es of the existing Heze-Yanzhou line; and related construction works. This project will increase the capacity. 
2. Datong-Taiyuan Line           Double-tracking of two ections (127 kn); lengthening of all (34) existing crossing stations; construction of additional crossing  87.0
sations; nd line electrification and insallation of centralized traffic control signalling system. This component will increase overall
capacity.
3. Electric Locomotives: Manufac-  Provision of technical assistance and training. Provision of equipment to increase and improve production of electric locomotives of  20.0
ture and Technical Asistance    the present design. This component will increase the electric locomotive output to meet the overall demand.
Tots                                                                                                                                         220.0
RAILWAY 11
I. Zhengzhou-Wuhan Line Upgrad- Track lengthening at 59 stations and increase of the loading gauge of 18 bridges; electrification of the 574 km double track section;  211.5
ing and Electrification       related construction works; and technical assistance. This component will increasc the capacity of this line which has the second
highest traffic density in China.
2. Technical Assistance for      Technical assistance to CPCF; training of CPCF personnel in modern technical and management practices; development of a new  8.0
Changchun Passenger Coach     coach design adapted to Chinese conditions, and other related works. Bank assistance will enhanec the efficiency of production and
Factory (CPCF)                improve the quality of the coach.
3. Technical Assistance for China    Provision of equipment and instruments to equip the laboratories; and training of Academy staff in fields related to the laboratories.  15.0
Academy of Railway Science
4. Management Information System   Upgrading of MOR's management information system to improve the efficiency of its operations.                            0.5
Study
TOtal                                                                                                                                       235.0



SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS RALLWAY PROJECTS
Coa"mponts                                                         Project Description and Objectives                                          Loe,a/Credit
Anwwt
(S million)
RAILWAY III
I Chongqng-Guiyang Line           Extension of sidings from 550 m to 750 m; replacemeit of 43 kg/m rails with 50 kg/m rails; and line electrification. This compo-  96.0/a
Upgrading end Electrification  nent will increase the line capacity.
2. Yingtan-Xian men Line Upgrsd-   Extension of short crossing loops from 450 m to 650 m and other related works; and electrification. This component will increase  106.0/a
Vg and Electrification         the line capacity.
3 Technical Asasistnce for Xian   Provision of better equipment, facilities and technical assistance to increase production efficiency and improve product quslity.  8.6/a
Rsilway Signaling Factory
4. Maintenance of Permanent Way   Provision of mechanical equipment to MOR for railway maintenance to improve track condition and increase line capacity.     19.0/a
|S Costing Study                  Comprise specifications of the coating system to be adopted by MOR, and pilot system implementation and training.            0.4/a
Toul                                                                                                                                           230.0
RAILWAY IV                                                                                            f
1. YueIhan-Xiangfan Line Double-  Double-tracking of Yueshan Xiangfan line (492 kin) and electrification from Yueshan to Luoyang (113 km) to incrase the line  163.0
Tracking and Partial Electrifica-  capacity.
2. Modernization of Three Locomo- Provision of advanced equipment and transfer of new technology to MOR to modernize three locomotive and rolling stock factories  37.0
tive and Rolling Stock Factories  to improve the quality of products.
Total                                                                                                                                          200.0
INNER MONGOLIA LOCAL RAILWAY
1. Line Construction, Design Fea-   Construction of a new line with initial capacity of seven million tons per year in each direction. Provision of related operational  150.0
tures and Operational Equipment  equipment to improve the quality of railway operation.
Total                                                                                                                                          150.0
/a Data are based on the loan agreement and are different from the cormsponding Staff Appraisal Report.



SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS RAILWAY PROJECTS
Conponents                                                      Project Description and Objectives                                     1 Loan/Credit
Amount
(S million)
RAILWAY V
I Systemwide Component-Perms- Provision of on-track machinery for permanent way rehabilitation and maintenance to improve the track condition and thereby  90.0
nent Way                     increase line capacity and train speed.
2. Systemwide Component-Loco-  Procurement of wheels; critical components for locomotives; and some critical machinery and equipment for the workshops and  60.0
motives and Rolling Stock     depot. The objective is to reduce the gap between supply and demand.
3 Capacity Expansion Component  Double-tracking of 594 km single-track between Zhuzhou and Hangzhou; and build a new double-track bridge over the Gan River.  160.0
-Zhengan Line                 The objective is to remove the bottleneck and increase the line capacity.
4. Capacity Expansion Component  Provision of additionsl land, new roadbeds, bridges, culverts, buildings, machinery, and equipment. This component will increase  20.0
-Xuzhou Terminal             railway capacity, reduce the train delay, and the operational costs.
Total                                                                                                                                   330.0
RAILWAY VI
1. Capacity Expansion Subcompo-   Electrification and modernization of 694 km double track line to increase the traffic carrying capacity of the line by about 50 per-  112.0
nent: Beijing-Zhengzhou       cent.
2. Capacity Expansion Subcompo-   Electrification and moderization of 1094 km single track line to increase the traffic carrying capacity of the line by about 70 per-  90.0
nent: Chengdu-Kunming         cent.
3. Mechanizing Track Maintenance  Mechanization of the track maintenance system. The objective is ultimately to lower train operating and maintenance costs.  48.0
4. Locomotive & Rolling Stock   Introduction of modern m achine tools for manufacturing critical parts of MOR's equipment fleets which will help reduce the fre-  22.0
Parts Manufacture             quency of failures of diesel locomotives and freight wagons and improve their reliability and utilization.
5. Telecommunicationa & TMIS    Expansion and modernization of MOR's telecommunications network and implement computerized TMIS to automate wagon opera-  120.0
tions on a systemwide basis. The objective is to increase the flow of information for decision making at all levels and make railway
operations more efficient and responsive to customer needs.
6 Pilot Container Transport     Demonstration of the operational and economic feasibility of a frequent and regularly scheduled container transport service and  19.0
guide the future expansion of modern container ervices.
7 Technical Assistance for System- Technical *asistance and training for MOR to carry out three major studies including: (1) rail-based container transport study;  9.0
wide Technological Moderniza-  (ii) cost-effective technology evaluation study; and (iii) environmental protection study.
tion
Total                                                                                                                                   420.0



SUMMARY OF COMPLETED, ONGOING AND PROPOSED PROGRAMS
OF COOPERATION BETWEEN MOR AND THE WORLD BANK
COMPLETED STUDIES
Copoinet                    Starting project               Objectives/scope                Funding sources/foreign exchange                   Status
topic                      & year                                                         cost (approx.)/C
I    Costing Study           Railways I         To develop a coating system which provides    Total:               S800,000     Comoleted. Study was initially delayed
1984               detailed costs of railway trnsport for    Raihvays I:             $500,000      due to Chinese hcsitation to tackle
freight by commodity and for pasengens by  Railways mI:           S300,000     costing and pricing issues, but MOR
class and type of service by origin and                                        agreed with the Bank through Raihways
destination. An inmontnt follow-up is to                                       V negotiations on an action plan to: (a)
usc the coating model for (i) indexing tariffs                                 complete the tudy by December 1993;
to inflation; (ii) contract pricing; (iii) re-                                 and (b) ue study results to formulate
moving structural distortions in tariffs; and                                  revision of tariff system. A proposal
(iv) calculating comnpenations for PSOe.                                       for railway tariff reforms was prepared
See the Railway Tariff Reform Study be-                                        under Railways VI.  MOR bas pre-
low,                                                                           pared a costing model, yielding rmilway
cost estimates which provided a basis
for initial improvements of the railway
tariff system under the proposed rail-
way tariff reform study (see below).
This model is currently being applied
in the Fuzhou subadministration.
2.   Pilot Msnagement        Railways U         To improve MOR's infornation system in      Railways U:            $500,000     Completed. A pilot system for com-
Information  System     1985               the Harbin Administration through stream-                                       puterizing expenses, revenues and way
(MIS) Study                                lining of information flow and use of mod-                                      bills has been tested for the Harbin
era conmuter software.                                                         Administration. MOR is beginning to
develop a comprehensive MIS for the
entire railway system. The compre-
hensive MIS would employ the Trans-
port Management Information System
(TMIS) proposed under Railways VI to
provide key input.



COMPLETED STUDIES (cont'd)
Compoent                   Starting project              Objectives/scope               Funding soureer/foreign exchane                  Status
topic                     & year                                                       cost (approx.)/a
3.   Strategic Phn Study    Railways  IV       To imnprove operational nmnagenent and    Total:               S2,500,000    Cornwieted. Traffic capacity nmdeling
1988              increase transport capacity on the Beijing-    Railways IV:    S1,000,000    with ALK consultants has been com-
Shaghai lne, through three areas of tech-    PHRD:            $1,500,000    pleted and tested on a pilot basis. This
nological mnodernization:                                                    model was used extensively in the
(a) traffic capacity mnodeling;                                              Coat-effectiveneu Technology Evalua-
(b) telecommunications; and                                                  tion (CETE) Study Phase I. MOR has
(c) TMIS.                                                                    prepared, with the help of EDS (USA)
nd CANAC (Canada) conultants, re-
pott on the telecommunications sub-
tudy and with CANAC consultants on
the TMIS subsudy.  Thee reports
provided a bai  for the proposed
investment ubcomponeMt for telecom-
nmnications and a Transport Manage-
ment Infornation System (FMIS) for
Bank financing under Railways VI.               %
4.   Railway  Investnent    Railways V         To develop a decision-support eytem for    Total:                S550,000    Conoleted. Phase I (model develop-
Study (RIS)            1989               (a) forecrating traffic flows on railway net-    World Bank:    $200,000    ment and testing) was completed in
work; (b) evaluating economic merits of    PHRD:                $350,000    June 1991. Conmputer tools are now
proposed railway capacity expansion invest-                                  available for applicationx by trained
ments; and  (c) selecting  high-priority                                     MOR. staff. RIS Phase n applied a
investments and increasing total system                                      decision-support  sytem   developed
throughput under budget constrmints,                                         under RIS Phase I to determine eco-
normic priorities of proposed railway
investents on a systemwide bais; to
maximize system throughput under
budget conaints; and to size future
railway investmt plans under differ-
ent economic growth scenarios. Two
of these projects were impiemeted
under Railways VI. RS results were
used as a basis for the Government
decision nade in 1992 to accelerate
railway construction in the 8th and 9th
Five-Year Plns. 



COMPLETED STUDIES (cont'd)
Coywncn                     Start g project                Obp.tived/ccope                Funding  ourfca/foign exchan                     Stac
lepic                     h ye r                                                       cod (appmx. )
5.  Technical Studies       Railways V         To develop action plans to:               Total:               $3,500,000    Com leted  As rgreed during Railway
1989              (a) modernize tuck maintenance; (b) mod-    Railways I:        $3,500,000    V negotitions, MOR has carried out
ernize loconuotive and olling mock main-                                   the studies (a)-(d). These reports pro-
tenance; (c) modernize and expand the rail-                                  vided a basis for preparing four invest-
way telecommunications sytem; and (d)                                        mest subcomponents of Railways VI.
modernize railway electrification technol-
ogy.
6.   Tariff Study           Railways  VI    To prepare a proposal to reform railway    Total:                  $250,000    Coenleted. Originated from rhe ongo-
1992              tariffs in order to help MOR strenihen ita    MOR(Dank Loana):/b   $170,000    ing CoMing Study, the study addreaed
financial aIf-mufficiency and remove price    World Bank:       S 0,000    not only dhe isue of price distortions,
disonios,                                                                    but also die isses of trengthening
MOR's financial elf-sufficiency nd
grsani   MOR grter autonomy in
price sening. A Tariff Reform Study
Committe and Working Group with
representation of MOR, MOF, SPC
and SPC werm created. An action plan
wa agreed with MOR in July 1994
and is currently being implemented.
This atudy provides a basis for the PID
comnponent on railway tariff reform
under Railways VU.
7.   Accounting Study       Railways VI        To prepare railway accounting rules to    Total:                $300,000    Comnleted. MOR has prepared guide-
1992              conform with national accounting rules to  MOR(Bank Loana):/b   $300,000    lines for accounting rules and financial
be iaued by MOR.                                                             reporting, and, accordingly, has revised
its chart of accounts accordingly. MOF
treated the tudy as a test case for the
transport sector.    To  implement
accounting reform, MOR haa agreed to
prepare accounting policies with
technical asianea under Railways Vi.



COMPLETED AND ONGOING STUDIES (cont'd)
Component                  Starting project              Objectives/scope               Funding sources/foreign exchange                 Status
topic                     & year                                                       cost (approx.)/a
8.  Rail-based Container    Railways VI        To develop immediate, medium- and long-    Total:               $500,000    Completed. A short-term action plan
Trasiport Study         1991              term action plans to modernize and expand    MOR(Bank Loans):/b   $200,000    was prepared as a basis for launching a
railway container services. This action plan  PHRD:             $300,000    pilot container transport investment
aims to help China promote its exports and                                   component which was implemented
spur developments of enterprises in the                                      under Railways VI. Two overseas vis-
hinterland, by exploiting the still largely un-                              its of MOR study team were conducted
tapped potential for rail-based container                                    to the USA in May/June and December
transport in China's interior.                                               1992. A final report by Don Breazeale
& Aasociates in December 1993
offered recommendations to expand
container transport operations and
provided a prelimiinary basis for the
container transport coniponent under
Railways Vl.
9.  Study of Cost-Effec-    Railways VI        To identify rail technologies which offer a    Total:           $500,000    Comnleted. With Bank assistance, in-
tive Railway Technol-    1992             cost-effective approach to expand transport    MOR(Bank Loans):/b   $200,000    cluding the use of a Panel of Interns-
ogy  Evaluation                          throughput capacity, reduce transport cost,    PHRD:             $300,000    tional Experts, MOR completed the
(CETE), Phase I                           and improve the safety of train and yard                                     study with Bank assistance in Septem-
operations.                                                                  ber 1993. These results are being used
as a basis for the CETE Phase 1 study
and the CETE investment component
of Railways VIL
10. EnvironmentalProtec-    Railways  VI    To strengthen MOR's capability for envi-    Total:                 $350,000    Ongoin!. With UNDP funding, for-
tion Study              1992              ronmental assessment, monitoring  and    MOR(Bank Loans):/b   S150,000    eign  environmental experts visited
control, and to help solve MOR's environ-    UNDP:              $200,000    China in June 1992 to view areas of
mental problems including passenger trains                                   immediate concern including passenger
and noise pollution.                                                         coach sterilization, night soil manage-
ment, solid wase nmanagement and
moving train noise. MOR environmen-
tal experts visited North America in
September 1992. MOR prepared TOR
for a long-term environmentl stategy
in July 1994 which will be prepared by
year end 1995. Some of these resuwls
have been uwed as a basis for preparing
the  pilot  enviromnernal protection            I
compotent of Railways Vl.



ONGOING STUDIES (cont'd)
Conyom                    Staning project              Objeetivea/scope               Funding sourcea/foreign exchange                Statua
topic                     & year                                                      cost (approx.)/a
1.  RailWay MarnSament    Railways VI         To facilitate CR's trmnsfonmation into a    Total:            $2,900,000    Onaoing. TORs for te six tudy com-
and  Economics    1993                   market-orientedentity through: Oi) eablish-    MOR(Bank Loans):&  $2,400,000    ponents were agreed in July 1993.
(RME) Studies                            ing more flexible railway-government rels-    PHRD:             $500,000    Inception reports were completed in
tionship and reshaping CR's organizational                                  October 1994. Five teama [teama  ),
structure; (ii) expanding CR's capability for                               (ii), (ii), (iv) nd (v)l have completed
financial resource mobilization; and (iii)                                 foreign study tours, while the remain-
providing guidance to the development of                                    ing tam (vi) is planning to conduct a
diversified business activities. The RME                                    foreign study tours in early 1995. In
studiesare also aiming at helping CR per-                                   addition, two seminnrs were held in
form  its economic role more efficiently                                   September 1993 and July 1994 to di.-
through: (iv) enhacing CR'a labor pro-                                      cus railway organization nd manage-
ductivity; (v) advancing CR'B human re-                                     ment iuues and options. The interim
ource development; and (vi) reforing                                        report  which will st out major policy
CR's housing sytem.                                                         recommendations are completed for the
first five teams, and the report for the
remaining team will be completed after
its tour in early 1995. These studies
are providing the basis for the PID
comnponents of Railways VU.
12a. CETE   Phase  11:    Railways Vn         To implement the 25 ton axle load on MOR  Total:                $800,000    Ongoing. Study began in July 1994,
Implementation of 25   1994              network over the ncxt several years, which    MOR(Bank Loans):tb   $400,000    would be supported by the Railways
ton Axle Load                            will require new designs of freight cars, up-               (to be agreed)    Vn loan, and is expected to be com-
grading of track and bridges, and modifi-    PHRD:             $400,000    pleted in December 1995. Draft In-
cations to operating rules and procedures.                                  ception Report has been prepared and
is under review by MOR and the Bank.
12b. CETE   Phase  H:    Railways vn          To determine the feasibility of the proposed    Total:        $1,100,000    Ongoing. Study began in July 1994,
Feasibility Study of    1994             dedicated  passenger  railway  between    MOR(Bank Loans):&   $500,000    would be supported by the Railways
Dedicated P asenger                      Bcijing and Shanghai. The study includes a                  (to be agreed)    VI loan, and is expected to be com-
Railway                                  multimnode ridership study for the Beijing-    PHRD:            $600,000    pleted in December 1995. Draft In-
Shanghai Corridor and the technical design                                  ception Report has been prepared and
of various options, including infrasucture                                  b under review by MOR and the Bank.
and roUing tock, and preparation of an
operting plan.



PROPOSED STUDIES (cont'd)
Component                  Starting project              Objectives/scope               Funding sources/foreign exchange                 Status
topic                     & year                                                       cost (approx.)/
12c. CETE   Phae  11:    Railways VII          To evaluate the proposed dedicated passen-    Total:            S200,000    Ongoins. Study began in July 1994,
Evaluations  Using     1994               ger railway between Beijing and Shanghai    MOR(Bank LAns):/b   $100,000    would be supported by the Railways
Railway  Investment                      in the context of major capacity expansion                   (to be agreed)    V  bon, and is expected to be com-
Study (RIS) Models                        projects proposed for the Ninth Five Year    PHRD:              S100,000    pleted in December 1995. Draft Ii-
Plan. The work includes modifications to                                     ception Report has been prepared and
RIS models to provide more efficient opti-                                  is under review by MOR and the Bank.
mization of results and processing of a
larger traffic flow matrix for the base peri-
od.
13.  Inforration Systemn    Railways Vll       To (i) inroduce a marketing infornntion   Total:              $1,000,000    Prorot  MOR has agreed to under-
Studies                1994               system based on a central waybill file; (ii)    MOR (Bank oAns) :/b    $     take these studies.  The mnarketing
increase the scope and effectiveness of                     (to be agreed)    infiorntion tduy [(i)l can begin imme-
TMIS; (iii) conduct feasibility studies for    PHRD:                   $    diately; the remaining three studies [(ii-
new informAtion systems; and (iv) develop                                    iv)l should begin when implementation
action plas to implement Pasenger Res-                                       of TMIS nears comnpletion in 1997.
ervation System and Automated Equipment
Identification throughout CR.
14. Railway  Manufac-    Railways VII          To prepare an action plan to restructure and    Total:          $500,000    Proposed   MOR has prepared some
turing and Overhaul    1994               modernize CR's equipment mnnufacture    MOR (Bank loan):    $250,000    background information for a Bank
Sector Study                              and overhaul ector. Restructuring would                     (to be agreed)    mission tentatively scheduled in Spring
deal with consolidating MOR's factories    PHRD:                $250,000     1995 to prepare a TOR.
and forning joint ventures as a way to
transfer management expertise and manu-
facturing technology. Modernization would
address upgrading the quality of railway
equipment manufacturing to international
tandards.
g   Exchlde Bank gaffs time and tavel cogs.
lb   Funing for overwAs visits and traiis for MOR taff.



- 100 -                          ANNEX 4
REFORMING CIIINA'S RAILWAY SYSTEM: PROGRESS
TO DATE
The following table outlines the progress to date in reforming the Government of China's
(GOC's) railway system. These reform programs have been directly or indirectly influ-
enced by the Bank in the last few years as a result of (i) the Bank-prepared China Rail-
way Strategy Paper, (ii) six Bank-financed RME studies,l/ (iii) two Bank-sponsored
seminars, (iv) other Bank-financed technical assistance, and (v) suggestions by Bank
missions. In general, MOR has accepted and is in the process of implementing many of
the reform suggestions and recommendations that have emanated directly or indirectly
from the Bank.
The recent reform programs of the railways are grouped under the following four head-
ings:
I     Improving Government-Railway Relationships And Railway Regulation;
II    Reshaping Organization of the Railways And Strengthening Its Internal
Management;
III   Increasing the Railway's Investment Efficiency And Improving Its Finan-
cial Viability; and
IV    Enhancing The Efficiency And Quality Of the Railway Operations And
Services.
1/ The six RME Studies comprise: (i) Government-Railway Relationship Study; (ii) Diversified Econ-
omy Study; (iii) Finance Mobilization Study; (iv) Labor Productivity Study; (v) Housing Study; and
(vi) Human Resource Development Study.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                               PROGRESS TO DATE                                                 COMMENTARY
1. IMROVING GOVERNMENT-RAILWAY
RELATIONSHIPS AND RAILWAY REGU-
LATION:
A. To improve the relaionship between the gov-    In 1986 an economic contract was et up between MOR and the govenmuent, to transfer
eminent and the aihays by giving the rail-  more financial and mnageral responsibiities ftom the govrnment to MOR, with two
ways more autonomy and permitting it to be-  main features:
have as a commercial entity.
1. MOR was to has become fuHv resoonsible for financine all of the railway's ODeratinx  These incentives have encouraged the
and capital expenditures (through elf-generated cash flow and borrowings). In addition   railway to increase total outputs as well
MOR was to pay the Govemment of China (GOC) an annual lump-sum tax of Y 2      as to control the size of its work force.
billion plus a 5.3 % of revenue busines tax to the government. Beginning in 1994, the    Since the incentives re not tied to reve-
annul lump sum was been replaced by an eterprise income tax.                  mae or operating profits produced, how-
ever, they have not encouraged the rail-
2. MOR was to initiate an incentives compensation system whereby tota combined com-  way to view itself as  market-oriented
penution for all the rilway employees ould be based on railway productivity mea-  enterprise.
sures.
O Total compensation for the railway was based on a ratio of yuan per net tkm han-
dled, which has been negotiated an-nlly between MOR and the Ministry of Lsbor.
o Total compensation of individual entities within the railway was based on a series of
more explicit productivity rtios such as the amounts of freight and pauenger traffic
originated or carried per employee, the numbers of locomotives and rolling tock
produced or maintained per employee, etc.
In order to focus the attention of the railway on revenae and profit, the GOC has abolished
the economic contract tarting in 1995.
B. To separate regultion and mangement.        Based on MOR's recently adopted 30 Point Railway Reform document and MOR and SPC    There are ongoing discussion within
management presentations made at the July 1994 Bank-sponsored high-level conference, it    MOR and other GOC departmens as to
is apparet that the establishment of the rilway sytem as an independent entity has now  whether there should be a centrl enter-
been agreed to in principle, but no concepul approach or formal action plan for accom-  prise entity and, if so, what pecific du-
plishing this goal has yet been amnunced.                                        ties, responsibilties and utdority should
be assigned to the cental entity and what
The reduction of MOR headquarter saff froin 1,000 to S00 is a first ste toward a reduc-    should be assigned to the regional admin-
tion in the centl micocabtol of the t ihy.                                       istrations and subadninitrations.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                 PROGRESS TO DATE                                                   COMMENTARY
.- d):
C. To remove DprCC and credit subsidies for MOR.   Since 1990, the governmeat hs been slowly phasing out various subsidies.
o  Prices for mnterials, including fuel and electricity, have been permitted to rise rdually
to international market levels. More specifically, price subsidies have bee_ reduced
froin 20-25 % in 1990 to zero by the end of 1993.
o Also, onlending interemt rates on loans to MOR have increased, e.g., to 5 % for Rail-
ways V and to the ank's variable lending rate for Railways VI (for a 20-year matur-
ity).
D.  To clarify the reationships between GOC     A Railway Law was enacted in 1991, to provide a framework for proper regulation, con-  Before the enactment of the 1991 Rail-
and MOR, and to provide a basis for pro-   ructior, nmnagement, and operation of China Railways. The LAw lays down th respon-    way Law, there had been no legal basis
tecting the consumer, incrcasing rail trans-    sibilities of the national and local governments, railway enterprises, railway customer, and   for assigning responsibilities for opera-
port safety and protecting the environment,    the public at large. Its najor provisions are the following:                    tion of the railways; thus, there was no
formal allocation of authority and ac-
o the State Council to st forth detailed regulations for railway operations;        countability among various parties. The
1991 Railway Law wil have to be amen-
o MOR to set forth 'technical regulations'; to plan and consuct national railway proj-  ded, however, as a result of several     
ects; and to et railway tariffs subject to approval by the State Council;        provisions in MOR's 30-point Reform
Agenda. MOR has requested that the
o MOR to manage the railway's regional adminiations and subadministtions; and       Bank provide assistance in drafting reco-
mmended changes to the Law.
o Regional administrations and subadministrations to provide rail transport services; to
meet safety and on-time standards; to provide basic amenities and services to pasen-
gers; and to prevent pollution of the environment along the railway lines.
E. To introduce intrarail conVetition.          In July 1994 MOR approved the establishment of one or more national container compa-  This will be the first time, at least since
nies which would be independent subsidiaries of MOR and which would provide inter-  1949, that an individual rail customer
modal container srvices in competition with the railway's main freight transportation  will have a choice of rail service. It will
activities for the for transport of high value general merchandise traffic,         also provide an opportunity for the rail-
way to tailor customer service packages
to attract international intcnnodal traffic.
At present the railway transports less
than 3 % of this traffic between the ports
an inland destinations.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                               PROGRESS TO DATE                                                 COMMENTARY
11. RESHAPING THE RAILWAY's ORGANI-
ZATION A STRENGTHENING ITS INTER-
NAL MANAGEMENT:
A. To improve the responsiveness of the railway  Staning in early 1994 MOR initiated a series of seven geographicly-based pilot programs    The State Council has now given approv-
to its customer needs                       aimed at introducing line-of-business type organizations so as to focus on the specific  al for threc entities to becomc separte
service requiremcnts and profitability of different classes of freight and paswenger traffic,  limited liability com,anics. le Bank is
They comprise: (i) two rmilway lines (Datong-Qinghuangdaoand Guangzhou-Shenzhen);  providing specific technical assistance in
(ii) two subadministrations (Fuzhou and Jinan); and (iii) one adminisrtion (Guangzhou).    the establishment of lines-of-busines
organizational structures for the Fuzhou
and Guangzhou pilot programs.
B. To improve the efficiency of the internal man-    Since early 1980s decentralization efforts have shifted decision-making powera from MOR
agement of the railway by decetGraliing deci-    headquarters to the 12 regional railway administrtions and to tie contruction and factory
sion making.                               companies. Now these administrations and companies manage smil-cak investment pro-
jecta; retain profits on the basis of their performnance; and make stffing decision such as
the internal organizational structure, saff size and composition, and distribution of pay
incentives.
C. To control the size of the railway work force.    The RME Labor Productivity Study Team, in conjunction with MOR's Labor and Payrol                                     o
Departnment, has recommended and received approval from MOR to institute a number of
measures to control the size of the work force, as follows:
o Develop pecific progrms to operate the new lines with a mininum number of employ-   The manning program for the six new
ces, and saff these lines with existing Transportation Department employees to the  lines, which will come into operation
mAximum extent possible.                                                       within the next two years, is targeted at
staffing levels of 12 employees per kilo-
meter of new line. This ratio compares
favorbly with the present railway aver-
age of 32 employces per kilometer of
line.
o  lntrduce local mumcnt penalties aimed at corstminiug overall taffig levels.  MOR has developed a manager fining
system which penalizes m gers from
Y 10,000 to Y 50,000 for adding unau-
thorized personnel to their saffs. Th
purpowe is to help enmure that the raimway
staff reduction targets are mt as a rfeh
of the 5 % historical average a*ttition
te. 



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                PROGRESS TO DATE                                                  COMMENTARY
H. k~
C. (cogimed)                                    o Reduce management overlap and cut the railway's overhead costs by reducing the   MOR recognizes that the railway's over-
railway overhead stffs by at least 15 to 20% and MOR total staff by 20% to 800  all management and overhead daffs are
employees by January 1996.                                                      top-heavy and has et specific reduction
targets for each operating unit.
o Increase future flexibility in controlling the size of the work force by hiring *Imost all
new employees as 'contract employeea' rather than 'life time workers' and by requir-
ing existing employees who request a change in job status or a geographical move to
transfer their status from life time worker to contract employee.
o Consolidate and continue to encourage the growth of diversified economy companies  The fast-growing and highly profitable
(DECOs) with the target of increasing the absorption of redundant transportation em-  DECO Program (1993 DECO revenue
ployees from the present 200,000 to 400,000 by the year 2000.                   exceeded $3 billion) is the major vehicle
for reemploying surplus Transportation
Depattment personnel.
D.  To strengthen internal management through    MOR has recently completed the implementation of a pilot management information system    This pilot installation demonstrated the
the introduction of computer-based informa-   (MIS) for the Harbin Administration. The implementation of this program took several  benefits of a computer-based MIS in
tion systems.                             years and was financed under Railway IL                                            terms of reduced clerical workload, faster
preparation of reports and increased data
accuracy.
Because of strong internal opposition,
In 1992 MOR agreed to replace traditional hierarchial approach of the railway to informa-    this was a difficult decision for MOR.
tion systems with a centralized transportation management information system (TMIS) ap-    But the experience of other large freight-
proach. When it is fully implemented in 1997 it will be the foundation for essentially all  oriented railways which have installed a
Bank-financed information system investments under Rwy VI and proposed Rwy VII. Not    modern TMIS and associated telecom-
only will the TMIS provide a proven tool for increasing transport capacity, it will also  munication systems demonstrates that this
provide several customer service application programs.                            investment was far more cost effective in
terms of expanding capacity than a simi-
lar invedment in locomotives and rolling
MOR is in the process of issuing tenders for a permanent way management information  tock.
system (PWMIS) which is being financed under Railway VI. Finally, MOR is requesting
that the Bank provide financing for computer hardware and software plus technical assis-
tance under the possible Railway VII for: (i) a systemwide MIS which would process the
input data to TMIS to prepare management financial and statistical reports and (ii) a pilot
passenger reservation, ticketing and accounting system (PRS) for the new Beijing station.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                PROGRESS TO DATE                                                  COMMENTARY
111. INCREASING THE RAILWAY'S IN-
VESTMENT EFFICIENCY AND IMPROVING
ITS FINANCIAL VIABILITY:
A. To increase the efficiency of railwas invest-  A major portion of the $1.8 billion Bank financial assistance been directed towards expand-   Chinese railway is the only major freight-
ment through better planning and prioritization.   ing the capacity of China Railways, and the Bank has assisted MOR in improving the effi-    oriented railway in the world today
ciency of capacity expansion investments in the following ways:                    where demand substantially exceeds
capacity. Since the railway is facing
severe capital constrainta, it must careful-
ly evaluate the most cost effective ap-
proaches and tools to increase capacity.
o In the Fourth Quarter of 1993 MOR agreed to implement the following Cost Effective
Technology Evaluation (CETE) study recommendation. The objective is to buy ca-
pacity using the moat cost effective techniques. For example:
- Increase freight wagon axle loads from 21 tons to 25 tons on all heavy trffic corri-    This increase in axle loads (i.e., intro-
dors.                                                                        ducing heavy haul operationa) on the
milway'a main freight corridors is the
most cost effective approach to increasing
line capacity by approximately 20%.
- Expand capacity of Xiang-yu Line (Chongging-Xiangfan) by: (a) operating 'siding  The Xiang-yu Line is a heavily used
cleaance' length trains; (ii) converting signaling systems from serni-ABS to ABS;  single trck, mountainous line which was
(iii) upgrading electric traction systems; and (iv) constructing double tracks and add-    selected for studying the most cost effec-
ing new sidings in selected locations,                                       tive approaches to increasing capacity of
a sinsle track line .The Jing-hu Line is a
- Expand capacity of Jing-hu Line (Beijing-Shanghai) by: (i) operating 5,000 ton  heavily used double trck line which was
freight trins at seven minute headways; (ii) using double deck passenger coaches;  selected for studying the most cost effec-
and (iii) constructing a new high speed Jing-hu Line for passenger trains.   tive approaches to increasing capacity of
a double track line.
#6



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                 PROGRESS TO DATE                                                   COMMYIENTARY
M. (cotinued)
A. (continued)                                  o  Under the Bank-supported Railway Investment Study (RIS), MOR has developed a
decision-support system to improve the election of capacity expansion projects. The
RIS system has been ued in following three ways:
- to prioritize railway investment projects;
- to increase total traffic throughput by (a) using an optimal combination of improve-
ments, and (b) improving the freight routing procedures. One RIS scenario sug-
gested nearly 10% increase in traffic throughput, equivalent to S4-5 billion ovings in
railway construction cogs through the year 2000 for each measure); and
- to determine the size and composition of railway investment through the year 2000
under different economic growth scenarios.
B To develop costing systems and revise tariff  In March 1992, MOR and GOC formally launched a railway tariff study to addres the
tructures.                                   question of the tariff level as well as the issues of tariff structure, price and credit subsi-
dies, and tsriff-setting flexibility.
MOR has also received permission from SPC in 1993 and 1994 to structure a few special  Higher tariffs have been approved for
tariffs:                                                                            Daqin, Lanwu, Zhenwu, Baozhang and
Houyue Lines. MOR is grateful for the
o  Higher tariff rates for new lines.                                               approval of any tariff increase from SPC,
but it realizes that tariff surcharges for
o Passenger fare surcharges for special services and high passenger traffic seasons (e.g.,    overutilized existing lines rather than for
Spring Festival Season passenger tickets surcharge) for the Guangzhou Administration -    new lines may be more effective.
- In January 1995, seasonal floating passenger fares for the Spring Festival were
extended to the Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Zhengzhou and Jinan
administrations
o Higher passenger fares for higher quality services (e.g., air conditioned and express
train services) for 17 pairs of trains
o Charge special contract prices for oversize or extaheavy freight loads.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                 PROGRESS TO DATE                                                   COMMENTARY
III. (coutinued)
C. To improve the financial viability of the rail-  Between 1989 and July 1992 SPC permitted MOR to increawe tariffs, fares and surcharges    Because of substantial external cost in-
way by increasing tariff levels              so that MOR could fulfill its agreement to be completely financially self-sufficient, to wit:    creases (e.g., costs for teel, fuel, elec-
(i) in 1989, SPC granted MOR a one-time increase in passenger tariffs of 112%; (ii) dur-    tricity and cement) with essentially no
ing 1990-91, base tariffs and surcharges for railway freight traffic were increased by 41%.    passenger fare increase since 1989 and
no freight tariff increase since 1992, the
In 1991 SPC approved the collection of special Railway Construction Fund surcharges to  railway registered a small operadng
be used to expand the capacity of the railway. The initial 1991 surcharge was 0.2 fen/tkm.   loss in 1993 and 1994. This is the first
The surcharge was increased to 1.2 fen/tkm in 1992 and to 2.7 fen/tkm in 1993.      loss for the railway since its formation in
1949. In 1993, there would have been
no operting losa if construction sur-
charge tariff receipts were classified as
operating revenue. But in order not to
experience negative cash flows, the rail-
way has had to curtil its maintenance
activities and planned capacity expansion
investment programs in these two years
(e.g., purchase of locomotives and roll-
ing stock and the modernization and elec-  _
trification of the Chengdu-Kunming line).
D.  To mobilize financial resources other than  Since the late 1950s, GOC has promoted the development of local railways which are  The Railway VI RME Finance Mobili-
tariffs,                                  financed by local governments as another way to expand the railway system. Local rail-  zation Study team have been meeting
ways now comprise more than 5,000 route-km of the total national railway network,   with international investment bankers to
explore specific avenues for rising both
In 1992 MOR raised domestic bonds for the first time (totaling Y 3 billion). Also, in July    debt and equity financing.
1992 new policy changes were announced to encourage various MOR nonrail units to raise
capital through joint ventures with private investors and through exports of their products
and services, and in early 1994, a joint venture (with 25% foreign equity) was created to
build and operate a new local railway line between Jinhua and Wenzhou (330 km). Final-
ly, as part of MOR's new 30-point Reform Agenda, MOR will now permit foreign invest-
ors to participate in the ownership of new local railways through joint ventures.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                PROGRESS TO DATE                                                  COMMENTARY
[1. (continued)
E. To improve the railway accounting systems and   MOR has made the necesary changes in the railway's chart of accounts and its funancial  The MOF indructions appear to be in
costing systems.                             reporting to implement the accounting rules issued by MOF in 1993. MOR intends to  general compliance, but not full compli-
update the railway's accounting standards during the next two years in conformance with  ance with International Accounting Stan-
the staggered release of the national accounting standards by MOF.                 dards (LAS). For example, one of the
moat important requirements of LkS is
MOR has also developed a costing model, with Bank assistance under a Railway VI tariff    the disclosure of contingent future liabili-
study. This costing model can now be used to analyze the cost and profitability of its rail   ties, guch as potential under funding for
transport operations by traffic or service category. Following the collection of Waybill  future pension obligations.
data via the TMIS network in 1995 and the development of a central waybill file as part of
the new management information system to be financed under the proposed Railway VII,
the costing model can be used to evaluate the profitability of origin-destination pairs.
IV. ENHANCING THE EFFICIENCY AND
OUALITY OF THE RAILWAY OPERATIONS
AND SERVICES:
A. To impmve service levels for freight and pas-    In addition to introducing intrarail competition (para I.E.)and 'line-of-business' concepts
senger customenrs.                          (pam II.A.), MOR is in the process of implementing a variety of systems and programs                                           O
aimed at improving customer service levels, but much remains to be done. Examples of                                          
approved programs include:
o  In 1992 MOR agreed to replace the railway's traditional hierarchial approach to infor-  The present levels of freight and passen-
mation systems with a centralized transportation management information system  ger customer services on China Railways
(TMIS). After completing the implementation of TMIS in 1997, the railway will be in    are clearly inadequate for it to compete
a position to adopt a less rigid, more timely response to wagon orders and other cus-  effectively with other transportation
tomer service requesta.                                                         modes in a market economy. For exam-
ple, a wagon order must be placed from
o As an interim step, MOR is implementing procedures and systems to reduce the time  20 to 50 days in advance and passenger
intervals between the preparations of the freight transportation plan from the present  transit delays in Beijing vary from I to 3
one month to shorter, but as yet unspecified number of weeks or days. The lengthy  days.
preparation times for the transportation plan is the main cause for the long lead time
requirements.
o MOR plans to implement a pilot passenger reservation and ticketing system (PlMRS)  The development of software for the
beginning with a pilot installation in the new Beijing Station under Railway VI.  national PRTS would be financed under
the possible Railway Vll Project.



TOPICS & OBJECTIVES                                                 PROGRESS TO DATE                                                 COIMMENTARY
IV. ke 1
A. (contiuted)                                 o In 1993 the railway consolidated and expanded dorneatic containar tranport ervices  The objective of this pilot program is to
through a pilot program of through block trins (i.e., unit trains) north-outh between  provide a superior transport service for
Harbin and Guangzhou and east-west between Shanhi and Xian.                     high grade general merchandise to better
support the energing rmrket economy.
o In 1993 and 1994 under Railway VI MOR also initiated the design and procurement  Heretofore, the container operations of
proceses for modernizing container operations by (i) redesigning container yards to uwe  the railway werm based on Russian prac-
modern pntry cranes and side loaders; (ii) phasing out one, five and ten ton containers   tices. With the acceptance of the mod-
and replacing them with standard ISO containers; and (ii) acquiring special container  ernization recommendations, the railway
wagons that can haul the popular 45 foot container.                             has begun the transition towards contem-
porary North American intermodal oper-
ating practices.
B. To modernize the maintenance of railwav track   In the early 1990s MOR launched a eries of studies finaced by Railways V to identify
and transort eQuipment (e.g, locomotives,   measues for modernizing the maintenansce of ita trck and its rolling stock, locomotives
wagons and coaches)                         and transport equipment. The overaU aim of these sudics was to lower the cost of opera-
tion and increa  system throughput capacity. Most of the recommendations from these
tudies ar in the proce"s of being implemented.
C. To install a modern telecommunications sys-  At the suggestion of the Bank and with the assisance of consultants, MOR drafted a Tele-    A modern, integrated communication
temrn                                       communications Master Plan in 1992. The Telecommunication Maser Plan is a living   system is a prequisite to the efficient
document which describes in detail the railway's communication standards for all levels of    operations of a large railway in a market
the operating organization to help ensure that the railway telecommnunication system is, in  economy.
fact, integrated and cost effective.
D.  To introduce modern rilway electrification  As a resut of a study under Railway V, MOR has adopted new design technologies for
technolories.                             electrification programs aimed significantly improving the cost effectiveness of railway
lins that employ electrical power to drive the locomotives.
E. To sct priorities for the implementation of  In 1972, MOR established an Environmental Protection Bureau. In February 1992, MOR  In spite of the fact that there are sub-
environmental protection proiects.          launched a study to prepare action plans to reduce pollution related to paenger trins and    stantial inherent environmental advan-
noise pollution resulting from passing trains. An extension of this study was carried out  tages of rail transport compared to road
under Railways VI, to bolster MOR's capability for environmental protection on a more  transport, MOR now realizes that it must
comprehensive basis. MOR now recognizes that the only effective approach to achieving  expand itu technical competence in the
environmental protection within the constraint of limited funds is to develop a comprehen-    use of various environmental monitoring
ive Environmnental Action Plan and it has requested the Bank to provide flnsncing under  instruments and et specific targets for
the possible Railway Vn for technical assistance in preparing this Action Plan and in de-  noise abatement, waste clean up and
veloping competence in the use of environmental protection instrumentation,        control, and the like.



-110 -                             ANNEX 5
INDICATORS AND TARGETS FOR MONITORING
THE PROGRESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF
IMPLEMENTATION OF INVESTMENT COMPONENTS
1.         MOR has agreed that during the period of operation of each component,
MOR would gather the following monitoring data on a regular basis for measuring the
achievement of project objectives. The data would serve Bank project supervision and
auditing, and provide MOR senior management with additional information on project
performance.
A. GENERAL
2.         The systemwide monitoring targets for each year through the year 2000 are
recorded in Table A at the end of annex. While there will be many factors in addition to
the Bank-financed investment components that will influence these targets, they provide
a framework to judge the overall impact of the Seventh Railway Project.
B. CORRIDOR CAPAcrrY EXPANSION
3.         The following monitoring indicators were used to evaluate the economic
return of the 1,044 km Wuhan-Guangzhou Line electrification project.
1993         2000
Description                                               Base Year    Target Year
A   Passenger train pairs, Wuhan-Puqi Section                        19            29
B   Passenger train pairs, Zhuzbou-Hengyang Section                  29            42
C   Freight tkm (millions)                                        63,249ta    101,253
D   Passenger-km (millions)                                       28,669ta     40,706
E   Freight density (tkmtroute-km) (millions)                      60.58/a      97.00
F   Average freight train speed, downbound (southbound) (km/hr)     54.4         59.0
G   Average freight train speed, upbound (northbound) (km1hr)       52.7         57.9
H   Average passenger train speed, downbound (southbound) (km/hr)   68.6         72.1
I   Average passenger train speed, upbound (northbound) (km/hr)     68.4         71.7
J   Yuan operating expense per thousand ctkm (1994 constant prices)  12.70/L    10.56
.a These amounts are 1994 estimates rather than 1993 actuals.



-111-                               ANNEX S
C. INFORMATION SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION
4.         The primary benefit of the TMIS and MIS systems will be the improvement
in the railway's overall operating performance.  These improvements can best be
measured by systemwide monitoring indicators contained in Table A. In addition, this
investment component is projected to produce the following two direct benefits that
would be monitored:
(a)   Approximately  4,000  clerical  positions  are  required   at  the  57
subadministrations and 12 statistical factories to process 4.8 million waybills
per month. Following the implementation of the TMIS and the first phase of
the integrated MIS under Railway VII, MOR projects that the remaining
clerical work at these locations clerical positions can be handled by 1,000
clerical positions, a reduction of 3,000 positions.
(b)   At present, it takes between 12 and 18 days to process these waybills and
produce the various waybill-based statistics and management reports.
Following implementation of the first phase of the MIS, this process should
be accomplished within 2 to 3 days.
D. TELECOMMUNICATIONS UPGRADING
5.         The following telecommunication monitoring indicators and targets were
agreed for each type of network development investment under Railways VII:
Description                                            1993                  2000
Base Year            Target Year
Equi ment Implementation:
A  Transit Switch Capacity (trunks)                     15,479              312,500
B  Local Switch Capacity (000 lines)                      450                 1,250
C  Connected Subscribers (000)                            325                 1,062
D  O.F. Tran. System 8Mb/s (km)                          1,150                6,200
E  O.F. Tran. System 140Mb/s (km)                       2,535                 7,500
F  Satellite Earth Stations                                 0                   68
G  Mobile Satellite Earth Stations                          0                    12
H  Data Telecom Network Nodes                               6                   25
I  Data Telecom Network Subnodes                           42                   70
J  Data Telecom Intel. PAD (No.)                          218                  600
K  Data Telecom Network Maintenance Centers                 3                     3
L  Conference Network Locations                             0                   70
Network Performance Indicators:
M  Long Distance Automation (%)                          10%                   60%
N  Internal Effective Call Completion Rate (%)         98.81%               99.00%
0  Speech Satisfaction Degree (%)                      98.20%               99.00%
P  Number of Faults / 100 DELs Per Month                   60                   40
Q  Average Duration of Fault (hrs)                       1.38                  1.40
Efficiency Indicators:
R  Number of staff / 1,000 DELs                           175                   80
S  Number of staff / 100 km of cable                      132                   101
T  Number of staff                                     56,253                64,884



-112 -                           ANNEX S
E. CONTAIER TRANSPORT COMMERCIALIZATION
6.         The container transport component is limited to providing financing for
12,000 twenty- and forty-foot containers, selected container-handling equipment and
container information systems. Nevertheless, the primary thrust of this component is to
increase the railway's focus on intermodal container operations.   This is being
accomplished through the establishment of two new container companies. Thus, the
success of this program can best be monitored by selected systemwide monitoring targets
such as increased market share. These targets are included as part of Table A.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
7.        The environmental protection component comprises a variety of small pilot
projects and studies. Each of these pilot projects and studies will produce measurable
environmental benefits on a localized basis. Monitoring indicators for each of these
projects will be specified in the individual work plans. Measurable impacts on the
railway's environment on a national or regional basis will occur when results of the pilot
projects are implemented systemwide.
G. SYSTEM CAPACITY EXPANSION
8.        The following projected monitoring indicators were used to evaluate the
economic return of the application of new three-phased electric locomotives on the Baoji-
Yanepinzuan Line.
1994          2000
Description                                         Base Year    Target Year
A   Failure rate per 100,000 km                            2 to 3/a        0.3
B   Freight density in tkm per route-km (millions)         20.67          33.92
C   Yuan operating expense per thousand ctkm (1994 constant  13.55        11.39
prices)
/i 1994 failure rate data apply to SS4 locomotives.



Table A: SYSnEmWIDE MONrORiNG TARGETm AND INDICATORS
Description                                     1993     1994     199S      199C     1997      1998    199f   2000
Base freight and passenger data:
A   Freight ton kilometers (billions)               1,192    1,241    1,303     1,350    1,450     1,550    1,670   1,800
B   Passenger kilometers (billions)                   348      360      380       420      440       470      490    520
C   Total staff engaged in rail transportation activities  1,713    1,705    1,680  1,670    1,645  1,620    1,610   1,600/a
(000)
D   Route kilometers                               54,000   54,500   55,000   56,000   59,000    62,500   63,500  65,000/a
E   Average elapsed time betwoen receipt of wagon      33       31       29       28        26        24      23      22
order and delivery of wagon (days)
Key freight and passenger ratios:
F   Converted tkm per employee                       0.90     0.98     1.18      1.24     1.30      1.34     1.39    1.45           U
[(A + B) / C] (millions)
G   Average freight route density:                   22.1     23.0     23.6      24.1     25.2      26.8    27.3   27.7
[A / D] (millions)
Container traffic indicators:
H   CRC and SIT ISO market share                    1.7%     2.0%     3.0%      4.0%     5.0%      8.0%    11.0%   15.0%
I   Number of unit trains per month                    35       60       70       80       90        100     110    120
J   Number of yards handling 40-foot containers        60       63       70       75        80       85       90    100
/a Preliminary estimates pending the approval of the Ninth Five-Year Plan.



-114 -                           ANNEX 6
ACTION PLANS FOR POLICY REFORM AND
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS
1.          This annex outlines the action plans for the following PID components:
A.   Railway enterprise reform
Annex Al. Application of the costing model to the line-of-business
organization of the Fuzhou Subadministration (FSA)
B.    Tariff Reform
Annex Bi. Completion of the development of cost indices
C.    Labor productivity and pension management
NOTE:        (a) All dates refer to end-month unless otherwise stated.
(b) All dates are indicative and delays of six months may be expected.
A. RAILWAY ENTERPRISE REFORM COMPONENT
ACTION PLAN
Steps and actions agreed upon with MOR to be undertaken during the project preparation
and implementation period, along with their target dates, are set forth below:



-115 -                               ANNEX 6
Subcomponents                           Activities                     Target Date
A. Improvement of a     - Preparation of TOR by MOR                             May 95
new legal framework   - Workshop                                             July 95
- Inception report                                  October 95
- Development of Framework                           March 96
- Drafting of proposed amendment of law and regula-  August 96
tions
- Submission of draft Railway Law revision to MOR  December 96
for appropriate actions
B. Railway Enterprise
Reform:
1. FSA Experiment    - Drafting of an overall restructuring plan by FSA   October 94
- Preparatory work (evaluation of assets, setting up  December 94
accounting methods, etc.) for the conversion of FSA
into a limited liability company prior to the submis-
sion of the reform plan to MOR
- Submission of the restructuring plan to MOR for its    December 94
approval
- Decisions on implementation of the traffic costing   July 95
model and related cost allocation methods (See
Annex Al)
- Establishment of FSA Limited Liability Company  December 95
2. GRC Experiment    - Preparation of an overall restructuring plan by GRC   June 94
- Preparation of a plan for establishing GRC holding   June 95
company
- Establishment of GRC's holding company          December 95
- Preparation of a detailed restructuring plan for con-  June 96
version of Yanchang Subadministration (YSA) into a
limited liability company
- Implementation of the YSA restructuring program  December 96
- Review of the experiments in YSA and preparation     June 97
of broad-based restructuring program
- Upgrading GRC financial management capability     (Mid-1997)
with application of a traffic costing model and other
management tools
3. Preparation of    - Preparation of TOR by MOR                             May 95
Comprehensive      - Workshop for reviewing experiment & discussing       July 95
Enterprise Reform   restructuring strategy
Strategy           - Inception report                                  October 95
- Development of a comprehensive strategy for rail-  September 96
way restructuring
C. Debt and Equity      - Preparation of TOR by MOR                             May 95
Financing Strategy   - Workshop                                              July 95
- Inception report                                  October 95
- Development of a strategy for debts and equity     August 96
financing for selected railway services



- 116 -                          ANNEX 6
Annex Al: ACTION PLAN FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE COSTING MODEL TO
THE LINE-OF-BUSINESS ORGANIZATION OF THE FUZHOU SUBADMINISTRATION (FSA)
ACTIONS                               TARGET DATES
1.  Test 1993 MOR unit costs on the FSA                            October 1994
l________________________________________________________________     (completed)
2.  Develop a set of "interim" 1993 unit costs suitable for FSA    October 1994
l________________________________________________________________     (completed)
3.  Identify necessary and feasible changes to expense accounts    October 1994
for FSA                                                         (completed)
4.  Produce "interim" 1993 freight expenses by commodity           October 1994
l________________________________________________________________     (completed)
5.  Produce "interim" 1993 passenger expenses by seat type  Mid-December 1994
6.  Discuss "interim" results with FSA
7.  Develop a set of "final" 1993 unit costs for FSA and sub-  January 15, 1995
mit, in English, to the Bank
8.  Produce "final" 1993 freight expenses by commodity and     January 15, 1995
"final"  1993 passenger expenses by train and seat type
9.  Train FSA staff in costing model                             Feb-April 1995
10. Design methodology for development and regular produc-          August 1995
tion of the FSA inputs required by the freight point-to-point
model: (a) trains; (b) car utilization; and (c) shunting
11. Produce preliminary 1993 FSA inputs to the freight point-       August 1995
to-point model
12. Make necessary modifications to freight point-to-point cost-    August 1995
ing model for FSA
13. Design methodology to develop the cost of specific Line        October 1995
Haul commodities in FSA: (a) Study sources of traffic
information; (b) Design and collect sample of point-to-point
movements representing specific commodities; (c) Use the
point-to-point costing model to estimate the cost of specific
commodities
14. Collect the information required to calculate the cost of    December 1995
specific passenger services in FSA:
a) Crew make-up
b) Train consist
c) Number of trips per year
d) Type of locomotive
e) Number of passengers
f) Number of parcels



-117 -                                ANNEX 6
B. TARIFF REFORM ACTION PLAN
Recommendations                    Activity            Schedule    Responsibility
A. FREIGHT TARIFFS
1. Contracting: Dimensional Traffic   Prepare report         Nov 1993       MOR
Submit to SPC            Dec 1993       MOR
l________________________________  Implement program*        Jan  1994       MOR
2. Contract Pricing: Containers     Approve formation of CRC  Dec 1993      SC
- China Railway Container Cor-   Prepare report          Apr 1994       MOR/CRC
poration (CRC)                Submit to SPC            Jun 1994        MOR
Submit to State Council    Dec 1994     SPC
l_____________________________ Implement program*            Jul 1995        MOR/CRC
3. Tariff Adjustment: by Commodity  Prepare report           Apr 1993       MOR
l ____________________________   Submit to  SPC                 **           MOR
4. General Tariff Increase: Freight   Prepare report         Sep 1993       MOR
Tariffs                         Submit to SPC            Sep 1993        MOR
Submit to State Council    Mar 1994     SPC
Implement program*       Jul 1996       MOR/SPC
5. Higher Price on New Lines:       Prepare report           Nov 93/Nov 94 MOR-EPRI
Baozhong/Houyue Lines           Submit to SPC            Dec 93/Dec 94  MOR
Implement program*       Sep 1995       MOR
6. Increase the 'Construction' Gen-   Prepare report         Aug 1994       MOR
eral Surcharge                  Submit to SPC            Sep 1994        MOR
Submit to State Council    Nov 1994     SPC
Implement program*       Mar 1997       MOR
B. PASSENGER TARIFFS
7. Expand Scope of Higher Prices for Prepare report          Oct 1993       MOR
Higher Quality Services         Submit to SPC            Nov 1993        MOR
Implement program*       Jul 1995       MOR
8. Expand Scope of Floating Price    Prepare report          Oct 1993       MOR
- Fujian province & Shanghai    Submit to SPC            Dec 1993        MOR
l ________________________________  Implement program*       Jan  1994       MOR
9. General Tariff Increase: Passen-   Prepare report         Aug 1993        MOR
gers                            Submit to SPC            Sep 1993        MOR
Submit to State Council    Mar 1994     SPC
Implement program*       Sep 1995       MOR
C. COSTINGS
10. Enhance the Costing Model      (See Annex Al)           l              l
11. Cost Index Procedure for Adjust-  (See Annex B 1)
ing Tariffs                                                            l
* The schedule shown has been prepared by MOR and indicates its plans and best estimate of timing.
Implementation is dependent on approval by the State Planning Commission and/or the State Council.
** Because of losses on all commodities, MOR is no longer pursuing a tariff increase for specific com-
modities. Instead, MOR is pursuing a general freight tariff increase.
Soirce: This action plan is based on that provided by MOR on September 27, 1993 and changed as a
result of discussions held on September 28/29 and October 4-9, 1993 and November 1-11, 1994.



- 118 -                               ANNEX 6
Annex Bi: ACTION PLAN FOR THE COMPLETON OF THE DEVELOPMENT
OF COST INDICES
Note: The completion dates in this table are not sequential because some activities are
implemented simultaneously by different staff.
ACTIONS                                   TARGET DATES
1.  Make final verification for homogeneity of sample items used in materi-  October 1994
al price index calculation and take corrective action (Shanghai and      (completed)
Harbin administrations)                                                             l
2.  Complete verification of applicability of stores prices to price index  October 1994
determination and substitute market prices for issue prices if necessary  (completed)
(Shanghai & Harbin adm.)                                                             l
3.  Extension of pilot study from Shanghai and Harbin administrations to  November 1994
six adm.
a) Training of staff in Beijing, Zhengzhou, Jinan, Lanzhou administra-
tions
b) Beijing, Zhengzhou, Jinan, Lanzhou forward data to MOR                            l
4.  Verify productivity calculation through an account-by-account compari-  October 1994
son of 1992 predicted and actual expenses, and adapt methodology as      (completed)
necessary
5.  Submit to the Bank updated report for Railway Productivity Calculation  October 1994
with Multiple Factors                                                    (completed)
6.  Apply methodology to 1993 data:                                            June 1995
a) Conversion of first half accounting data in 1993 to apply new
accounting guidelines effective since July 1, 1993
b) calculation of 1993 price increases
c) calculation of 1993 productivity gains
7.  Prepare a draft description of steps to negotiate with SPC/MOF the cost  September 1995
indexing methodology and submit, in Chinese and English, 1994 to the
Bank:
a) MOR Finance Bureau request Economic Planning and Research
Institute (EPRI) to prepare plan
b) EPRI prepares plan
c) MOR Finance Bureau reviews plan                                                   l
8.  Prepare "final' description of steps to negotiate with SPC/MOF cost   December 1995
indexing methodology and submit, in Chinese and English, to the Bank                 l
9.  Cost indexing methodology and proposed plan for implementation sub-   December 1995
mitted to SPC/MOF as tool in negotiations for tariff adjustments
10. SPC/MOF/MOR negotiate tariff adjustments using cost indexing meth-    December 1995
odology



-119 -                               ANNEX 6
C. LABOR PRODUCIVITrY COMPONENT
NEXT STEPS AND TARGET DATES
Recommnendations                  Activity                     Target Dates
1. Reduce Management      - Complete report*               - June 1995
Overhead and Cut Over-  - 15 to 20% reduction in manage-    - January 1996
head Cost                ment overhead
2. Increase 'Contract'    - Increase contract personnel from    - January 1995
Employment               17.8% to 30.0%
- Complete report*               - June 1995
3. Define Broader Work    - Complete report*               - June 1995
Classifications and En-    - Refine pre/post-training evaluation  - Ongoing
courage Multitasking    - Begin 'position evaluation"    - August 1995
4. Constrain Employment    - Complete report*              - June 1995
Levels at the Operating    - Continue to refine manpower  - Ongoing through 1995
Unit Level               reduction incentives and controls
for zero growth
- Complete Pilot Line Officer Train- - March 1996
ing
- Complete "Productivity Work-   - July 1996
book"
5. 'Zero-Based' Manpower  - Complete report*                - June 1995
Planning on New Lines    - Draw and reposition 110,000 staff  - Line by line through 1996
from existing forces
6. Link Capital Budgeting    - Complete report*            - June 1995
with Payroll and Man-    - Develop programs              - Contingent on report findings
power Planning
7. 'Zero-Based" Manpower  - Complete report*               - June 1995
Planning among New      - Work with CRC and the DECO     - Ongoing, case-by-case
Enterprises Including    Center to develop payrolls, new
LOBs                     organizations and initial manpower
controls
8. Productivity, Quality of   - Prepare for Bank review TORs for - May 1995
Service Management, and   the TA and training required
Process Reengineering   - Engage foreign experts to train  - February 1996
first-line supervisors
- Develop training programs for  - August 1996
productivity and quality of service
management
* A final report of the Railway Management and Economic Studies (i.e., Labor Productivity Enhance-
ment Study).



- 120 -                          ANNEX 7
COMPLETION DATES FOR STUDY COMPONENTS
The completion dates for the study components are as follows:
a.    Feasibility study of dedicated passenger rail                    June 1996
b.    Application of RIS decision support system                       June 1996
c.    Information system studies                                       June 1997
d.    Telecommunications systems studies                               June 1997
e.    Diesel engine design study                                  December 1999
f.    Strengthening treasury functions, including                 December 1999
resource mobilization
g.    Restructuring manufacturing sector                               June 1997



-121 -                           ANNEX 8
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: WUHAN-
GUANGZHOU ELECTRIEICATION AND UPGRADING
1.        Introduction.  The proposed project is classified as Category B for
environmental assessment purposes. The Wuhan-Guangzhou corridor expansion and
upgrading component, and other investment components 1/ are not expected to harm
the environment. A draft environmental assessment report prepared by MOR was
received by the Bank in May 1994. The report addressed the impacts of the Wuhan-
Guangzhou corridor expansion component. During the June/July preappraisal mission,
the draft environmental assessment was discussed with MOR officials in Beijing and the
Fourth Survey and Design Institute officials in Wuhan (who prepared the Environmental
Assessment report).  Taking into consideration the comments by the Bank, MOR
prepared a revised draft and submitted it to the Bank on October 12, 1994, before the
departure of the appraisal mission.
2.        The corridor expansion component involves the following construction:
(a) electrification of the 1,044 km Guangzhou to Wuhan line; (b) 24 substations (21 new,
3 reconstruction); (c) 26 sectioning stations (23 new, 3 reconstruction); (d) 7 switching
stations (5 new, 2 reconstruction); and (e) switchover to electric locomotives.
3.        Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures. Environmental impact
associated with the corridor expansion is expected to result mainly from construction and
operation of the corridor. Since the tracks and corridor right-of-way already exist, the
incremental impact is expected to be minor. During electrification of the line and
construction of associated facilities, which is expected to stretch over three and a half
years, major impacts will be from construction noise, fugitive dust, site wastewater,
garbage, disturbance of land used for temporary staging areas during construction, and
borrow pits. Noise impact will be minimized by avoiding night construction and by
keeping high noise-generating equipment away from noise-sensitive places. Dust will be
controlled by water sprinklers, by minimizing land disturbance and by reclaiming
disturbed land promptly. Use of land as staging areas will be kept to a minimum; topsoil
will be stockpiled and used to reclaim the disturbed area as soon as the construction is
completed. Where possible, the borrow pits will be used for aquaculture. Construction
workers will be educated in proper sanitation and wastewater will be handled as per
specified regulations. Garbage will be collected and disposed of at local landfill disposal
sites.
1/  The other investment components involve mainly the purchase of equipment and materials and minor
civil works, if any, such as the installation of fiber-optic cables.



- 122 -                         ANNEX 8
4.        During operation, anticipated impacts include noise and vibration from trains,
electromagnetic fields from power lines and substations, oily wastewater disposal, solid
wastes, etc. Noise impact will be minimized by: locating new noise-sensitive buildings
(such as schools, residences, etc.) at least 100 meters from the railway tracks;
minimizing the indiscriminate use of whistles and by use of low-noise, highly directional
whistles; installing continuous-welded heavy metal tracks 60 km up and down track of
noise-sensitive locations such as Hengyang, Chengzhou, Yingde and Tangxi; planting
suitable plants and shrubs to form noise barriers near locomotive depots and other
sensitive locations; relocating certain facilities, such as Yeuyang Railway Kindergarten,
to less noisy sites; and retrofitting affected schools with sealed aluminum alloy windows
and air exchangers for fresh air.  Tracks traversing through cities will use shock
absorbing pads and heavy continuous-welded tracks to minimize vibrations. Impact from
electromagnetic fields will be minimized by locating substations, sectioning stations and
locomotive depots away from residences. Existing residences, cable TV networks and
other facilities affected by the electromagnetic field will be relocated gradually.
5.        Rolling stock, electric locomotives and the depots will generate oily
wastewater that will be disposed of using the existing, expanded or refurbished facilities
utilizing  sedimentation, oil separation and/or air flotation treatment.   A  pilot
oil/wastewater treatment project will be initiated at a selected facility to identify and
demonstrate an oil/water separation technology best suited to Chinese conditions.
Sewage from the facilities will be handled as per current requirements. Solid waste
(mainly lunch boxes) from passenger trains is expected to increase by about 12 percent.
Solid waste will be collected at major stations and vehicles will be provided at those
stations to collect, transport and dispose of the wastes to local landfills. The project
includes a technical assistance component to assist MOR to develop a lunch box
management strategy to identify and assess alternatives to continued lunch box use, and
an investment component to initiate a pilot program based on those findings.
6.        Environmental Benefits. Following completion of the Wuhan to Guangzhou
corridor expansion, coal and fuel consumption will be reduced by 39.5 percent and
93.6 percent, respectively. The report estimates that this will result in an improvement
in air quality along the corridor through reduction in dust, SO2, NO, and CO. These are
estimated to decrease by 94.6, 65.8, 86.2, and 56.7 percent, respectively. Measures to
strictly control garbage, and collect and recycle lunch boxes will minimize land pollution.
To ensure environmental mitigative measures are being undertaken, MOR has committed
personnel and resources to project monitoring. Progress reports will be provided to the
Bank on an annual basis.
7.        Railway VII also includes a number of environmental technical assistance and
pilot program investment components, whose findings and application will benefit not
only the Wuhan-Guangzhou line but also the rest of MOR. The proposed pilot programs
and technical assistance studies will acquaint MOR with up-to-date environmental
protection technologies and practices. When implemented, these programs will form a
firm foundation for development of a comprehensive environmental action strategy for
the Chinese railways.



- 123 -                        ANNEX 9
RESETTLEMENT PLAN: WUHAN-GUANGZHOU
ELECTRIEFICATION AND UPGRADING
I.        The Project. The capacity expansion component of Railways VII consists of
the electrification and modernization of the Wuhan-Guangzhou railway line. The length
of the railway line is 1,044.262 km and if the Jingguang line in the railway hub of
Wuhan is included, the entire railway length is 1,081.172 km. The line moves through
the three provinces of Hubei, Hunan and Guangdong. Ten regional-level cities and more
than 20 towns (county-level) will be affected by land acquisition and resettlement. The
major purpose of land acquisition in this project is to meet the needs of station and
substation expansion and construction of electricity supply depots. The project does not
involve construction of new railway tracks and only the existing tracks are proposed to be
electrified. The land that will be affected as a result of land acquisition can be classified
into (a) regional-level cities, medium and small towns and counties, and (b) rural areas.
The former involves production units, commercial structures and residential buildings.
The latter includes agricultural land, residential structures, wooded areas and wasteland.
2.        According to the feasibility study of the Wuchang Hengyang and Hengyang-
Guangzhou sections of the railway line, it is estimated that land acquisition of 6,582 mu,
building demolition of 279,467 m2 and resettlement of 865 households (about 4,300
persons) will be required.  A total of 13,168 people will be affected.  A detailed
socioeconomic survey of the affected people will be conducted before displacement in
order to establish a baseline of income levels and standards of living. The area to be
acquired for the project is predominantly agricultural land. Only 5 percent of the land is
in urban areas. The railway line passes through some of the more developed agricultural
areas of the country. No areas of archeological importance will be affected for the
project. The land acquisition and resettlement activities will be initiated in 1994 and will
be completed in 1998.
3.        Policy Framework and Legal Provisions for Resettlement. Resettlement
caused by state projects such as railroads is guided by the Land Management Law of the
People's Republic of China and associated provincial implementing regulations ("the city
building relocation rules" published by the State Council, "the land management
implementation method of Hubei province," "the land management implementation
method of Hunan province," 'the land management implementation method of
Guangdong province" and the land acquisition and compensation rules of local
governments formulated according to the above national and provincial rules).1/ The
regulations handle consistently across provinces the major issues involved in land
I/ Copies can be found in the Project Files.



- 124 -                         ANNEX 9
acquisition and resettlement for this project.  The only variation is in the rates of
compensation permissible, which are a function of the local conditions and price
structure. The basic principle guiding land acquisition and resettlement is that the land-
using department must not only pay compensation for the properties affected but it must
also guarantee that those affected by land acquisition, after resettlement, must enjoy a
living standard not lower than their original standard of living. In other words, in order
to ensure that the standard of living of the affected people is maintained or improved, the
land-using unit must pay adequate compensation to and arrange employment for them.
4.        The national laws concerning land acquisition and resettlement compensation
stipulate that, according to the actual farm size acquired and the number of people
involved, each affected person should be compensated with an amount equal to 2-3 times
the average total annual output per mu in the last three years from the land being
acquired. Under normal circumstances, the resettlement compensation does not exceed
10 times the average annual output value per mu in the last three years before
acquisition. However, if the affected farmers are unable to restore their previous
standard of living when compensation is calculated according to the normal compensation
standards, the compensation may be increased under the approval of the concerned
department. However, the total land acquisition and resettlement compensation fees may
not exceed 20 times the average annual output of the acquired land in the previous three
years before acquisition.
5.        The following principles of compensation and resettlement would be
applicable:
(a)  Compensation for land acquisition used exclusively for vegetables, rice and
fisheries are based on the average annual value of output for three years
preceding acquisition. An amount equivalent to 5-6 times the annual output
will be paid as compensation. Similarly, compensation for orchards, tea
plantations, residential land and tree fields are calculated based on average
annual output multiplied by a factor that varies according to the type of land.
There is a difference in compensation procedures for collectively owned and
state-owned land. In the former case, which is more relevant here, the
national regulations clearly stipulate that those persons losing land will
receive compensation adequate to maintain their original standard of living
during and after resettlement. Compensation for restoring production goes to
the collective unit owning the lost land,. while individuals receive direct
payment for the value of standing crops lost and for trees, houses, and other
individually owned assets. The collective is responsible for planning and
implementing resettlement that maintains living standards and for negotiating
with MOR the exact compensation to be paid.
(b)  Housing compensation will vary depending on the type and location of
housing. The rates vary from Y 200-300/m2 for ordinary structures in the
rural areas to Y 300-500/m2 for houses in Guangdong. Compensation for
structures used for production facilities will be negotiated between the land-



- 125 -                        ANNEX 9
acquiring unit, the local administrative office and the affected production
unit. Other buildings are valued on a replacement cost basis. A survey of
building type and quality is undertaken by MOR as part of resettlement
planning.  That initial evaluation becomes the basis for negotiating
compensation with the owner of the building.
(c)  When business structures are acquired, the principle of "first new
construction, then old demolition" should be followed. If urgent construction
requires that business or production be stopped right away, MOR will pay a
production stoppage fee to the affected unit according to the total salaries
paid to workers employed in the unit multiplied by 15 percent. For the
workers whose employment is affected by work stoppage, full payment of
salaries must be made by MOR. If some commercial structures need to be
removed urgently, temporary commercial structures will be built to prevent
loss of jobs.
(d)  If, after land acquisition, the per capita land area is less than 0.1 mu, the
land-using unit shall be responsible for arranging employment for them and
paying for such employment. If the concerned departments are unable to
adequately deal with the employment arrangement issue, the land-using unit
and other government or collectively owned enterprises may provide
assistance to the affected people to secure a job.   Unemployment
compensation is provided until the new job begins. Those who have the least
amount of residual land will be given priority in provision of jobs.
Compensation paid to a unit as a result of land acquisition may only be used
to expand business and production or to develop secondary agricultural
production. The compensation may also be used as a subsistence allowance
for those unable to find employment. No unit or individual may distribute
these designated compensation funds for other purposes. All cities, towns
and villages must submit a resettlement fund utilization report to the land-
using department concerned every year.
(e)  The local government and "negotiation and conflict resolution group" will be
responsible for arranging a new rental place, comparable in rent and standard
to the original rental residences, for the tenants and will also pay for the
transfer. If such arrangements cannot be made, a one-time compensation,
deducted from the affected house owner's compensation fees, may be paid
the affected tenants.
6.        Affected Population. About 13,00 persons will be affected by land and
house acquisition under the project, of whom about 4,300 will have to move because
their houses will be demolished. The project files contain a family-by-family census of
housing and land lost to the project. A detailed socioeconomic survey of the affected
people will be carried out before displacement, in order to document their present
standards of living. The success, or otherwise, of the resettlement program will be



- 126 -                         ANNEX 9
evaluated based on the extent to which the original standards of living of the affected
people can be improved, or at least restored.
7.        Resettlement Planning and Implementation. Responsibility for planning
and implementing resettlement rests with city, country, township and village
governments. The local Land Administration Offices monitor resettlement and ensure
compliance with the Land Management Law. MOR is responsible for planning physical
works in a manner that minimizes resettlement and for paying compensation as required
under the Land Management Law. MOR compensation payments are channeled through
the Land Administration Offices.  The State Audit Administration assumes audit
responsibility for disbursed funds.
8.        MOR negotiates compensation with the land management department of each
affected county, which negotiates on behalf of all affected villages. Although the Land
Management Law sets standard multiples of crop output value by which to determine
compensation, negotiation can occur over the measurement of crop output value and
whether the mandated goal of income maintenance can be attained on the basis of
standard compensation or requires additional compensation.
9.        Once county negotiations with MOR have been completed, the county in turn
allocates compensation among the affected individuals and villages.  The country
typically sets a standard payment for assets of various types, and individuals directly
negotiate compensation for lost private assets, as do village leaders for expropriated land.
The village management committee plans and implements resettlements using collective
compensation funds, restricted by guidelines designed to ensure their use for
infrastructure development or other investments that improve villager incomes or social
welfare. The people to be resettled in any given village as a result of Railway VII
capacity expansion will be handled through these traditional planning mechanisms.
10.       In order to ensure that the resettlement work is done properly, every local
government is required to form a 'negotiation and conflict resolution group." They are
responsible for the coordination of all land acquisition and resettlement-related tasks
within their jurisdictions. If there are any problems of coordination between the different
provinces involved in implementation, or between the MOR and any of the provinces, the
State Planning Commission will resolve the issue. If the issues cannot be resolved by
SPC, it will be resolved by the State Council. A senior official of the State Council will
be in charge of project implementation coordination.
11.       Resettlement Strategies. The nature of the resettlement strategy adopted
within any one administrative unit depends fundamentally on the nature of displacement
there. In urban areas, the enterprises are compensated for lost assets and are provided
suitable sites for reconstructing needed buildings. Enterprise managers were confident of
plans for altemative location of enterprises and were satisfied with the rates of
compensation offered.



- 127 -                         ANNEX 9
12.       Requisitioned agricultural land accounts for the bulk of displacement and lost
productive assets under Railway VII. 7he strategy for dealing with such loss is to
redistribute all agricultural land within the collective, spreading the burden across the
collective. If the per capita land holding falls below a certain level (0.1 mu), the affected
persons will be provided with a job.
13.       Compensation levels considered adequate to at least restore the standards of
living of the affected people will be paid. The level of compensation will be related to
its capacity to help the affected people regain their previous standards of living. For
those left with unviable landholdings, the land-using unit will arrange to provide
employment in local enterprises.
14.       Rural houses will be relocated within the original village. Compensation
rates for houses were determined at replacement value, with the owner having the right
to salvage but also responsible for tearing down the old house. A new housing site of
equal size will be made available, and most of these sites have been selected. The owner
will be responsible for constructing the new house and will have approximately four
months in which to do so. A sample of homeowners relocated under earlier railway
projects revealed a high level of satisfaction with the compensation and other
arrangements for new housing.2/
15.       Public assets such as roads, and telephone and power lines to be rerouted,
will be rebuilt by the appropriate agency of local government. In every case, the
displacement in minor and the new routes are expected to result in minimal disruption of
service and inconvenience to users. MOR has earmarked compensation sufficient to
complete this work.
16.       Budget and Timetable.   Based  on preliminary budget projections,
resettlement costs will total Y 140.02 million. The resettlement financing plan is a part
of the overall project budget. The resettlement timetable presents no extraordinary
challenges, since resettlement is spread over the entire length of the railway line. MOR
will pay all resettlement compensation to the local government in advance of
resettlement, assuring availability of funds when needed. The State Audit Administration
has assumed responsibility for monitoring the use of resettlement funds. The resettlement
financing plan has been approved by SPC and is a part of the overall project budget.
17.       Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation. The monitoring of progress in
the resettlement program will be undertaken by the Social Sciences Research Institute
(SSRI) of Southwest Jiaotong University. The terms of reference for this work require,
inter alia, that: (i) the monitoring be conducted quarterly beginning in 1994 through such
time as program objectives are achieve; M&E reports will be submitted every nine
months to MOR and the World Bank; (ii) monitoring will include all major resettlement
sites and will utilize standard survey methods; and (iii) in addition to indicators of
VI See Project Files.



- 128 -                        ANNEX 9
progress in physical works (e.g., land, housing, infrastructure, etc.), indicators selected
for monitoring shall include standard socioeconomic variables designed to measure the
well-being of the affected populations. Particular attention will be paid to compensation
levels. At the end of each year of the project, SSRI will present a summary report of
their supervision to MOR and the World Bank. If SSRI's investigations find problems,
SSRI will discuss the solution with the local government and submit to MOR a report
about handling of the problem. At the end of the project, a report will be prepared
summarizing the resettlement activities under the project.
RESETTLEMENT REQUIREMENTS
Land           Housing
Acquisition     Demolition        Number of       People
Year               Area            Area          Households       Affected
(mu)            (m2)
1994               204            4,511               28          286
1995              1,113          51,382              230         2,347
1996             2,633          111,683              418         5,266
1997              1,975          83,840              140         3,949
1998               657           27,947               41         1,320
Total             6 582         279,364              865        13.168



- 129 -                                        ANNEX 10
SUPERVISION PLAN
TIMING                            MIN ACTIVITIES                                 SKILLS REQUIRED            SW.
NOV 95      INITIAL REVIEW with particular emphasis on:                       - Transport economics          12
-  Steps taken by borrowers concerning loan effectiveness        - Railway engineering
-  Status of equipment procurement                               - Resettlement
-  Status of ongoing studies/TA and trmining programs            - Functional specialties
MAY 96       SUPERVISION covering overall implementation status emphasizing   - Railway engineering          II
-  Procurement of equipment                                      - Financial analysis
-  Financial performance                                         - Procurement
-  Status of studies/TA and training programs                    - Functional specialties
- Review of performance/monitoring indicators
NOV 96      REVIEW to facilitate implementation of components with particular    - Railway engineering       10
emphasis on:                                                     - Resettlement
-  Identification of issues and agreement on actions to be taken  - Functional specialties
-  Status of studies/TA and training programs
- Resettlement
MAY 97       SUPERVISION covering overall implementation sttus emphasizing:    - Railway engineering          7
-  Procurement of equipment                                      - Financial analyais
-  Financial performance                                         - Procurement
-  Status of studies/TA and training progranms                   - Functional specialties
-  Review of performance/monitoring indicators
NOV 97      REVIEW to facilitate implementation of components with particular    - Railway engineering        6
emphasis on:                                                     - Resettlement
-  Identification of issues and agreement on actions to be taken  - Functional specialties
-  Status of studies/TA and training programs
-  Reseulement
MAY 98       SUPERVISION covering overall implementation status ernphasizing:    - Railway engineering        6
-  Procurement of equipment                                      - Financial analysis
-  Financial performance                                         - Procurement
-  Review of performancelmonitoring indicators
NOV 98      MID-TERM REVIEW                                                  - Railway engineering           10
- Resettlement
- Functional specialties
- Financial analysis
MAY 99       SUPERVISION covering overall implementation Status               - Railway engineering           5
- Financial analysis
NOV 99      REVIEW to facilitate implementation status                       - Railway engineering           4
- Functional specialties
MAY 2000    SUPERVISION covering overall implementation status                 - Railway engineering           5
- Financial analysis
NOV 2000    REVIEW to facilitate implementation status                        - Railway engineering           4
- Functional specia lties  _
MAY 2001    SUPERVISION covering overall implementation status                 - Railway engineering           4
- Financial analysis
OCT 2001    PROJECT COMPLETION SUPERVISION to review al aspects of            - Transport economics           10
the project implementation and to assess overall perfonnance of the  - Railway engineering
project                                                          - Resettlement
- Functional specialties
TOTAL STAFF-WEEKS                                                    94



- 130 -                       ANNEX 11
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THLE PROJECT FILE
1. Feasibility Study Report on Capacity Expansion of Wuchang-Guangzhou Railway
Line Financed by the World Bank VII Loan, The Fourth Survey and Design
Institute, Wuhan, MOR, October 1994.
2. Introducing AC-DC-AC Electiic Locomotives for Baoji-Chengdu Railway-Feasibil-
ity Study, The First Survey and Design Institute, Lanzhou, MOR, August 1994.
3. Feasibility Report on Upgrading 16V280 Diesel Engine, Increasing Power &
Reliability and Reducing Emission with the Cooperation of the Foreign Institutions,
Qishuyan Locomotive & Rolling Stock Works, August 1994.
4. Feasibility Study Report for Telecommunication Network Item of 7th Railway Project
with the Proceeds of the World Bank Loan, MOR, May 1994.
5. Feasibility Study on Railway Environmental Protection Project Using the Seventh
Loan of the World Bank, MOR, September 1994.
6. Summarized Principles of Land Acquisition, Building Demolition and Personnel
Resettlement Concerning the Wuhan-Guangzhou Railway Expansion Project, MOR,
August 1994.
7. Land Acquisition, Building Demolition and Personnel Resettlement Plan for the
Wuhan-Guangzhou Railway Expansion Project, MOR, October 1994.
8. Feasibility Study On Railway Container Project Using the 7th World Bank Loan,
MOR, September 1994.
9. Aide Memoire of March 1994 Identification Mission for Railway VII, with the
following attachments:
A. Planning Assumptions for All Investment Components
B. Pilot Railway Restructuring Component
C. Financial Resource Mobilization Component
D. Tariff Reform Component (and Railway Costing Exercise)
E. Accounting Reform Component
F. Labor Productivity Component
G. Corridor Expansion Component
H. Cost Effective Technology Component
I. Dragon Services Subcomponent



- 131 -                       ANNEX 11
J. Information Technology Component-Data Processing Subcomponent
K. Information Technology Component-Telecommunications Subcomponent
L. Environmental Protection Pilot Component
M. Environmental Impact Assessment for Railway VII
N. Investment Efficiency Technical Component
0. Expanded Cofinancing Operation
P. Technical Assistance for Implementing Environmental Protection Pilot Programs
Q. Technical Assistance for Information Systems Development
R. Pilot Housing System Reform Component
S. Golden Bridge Intermodal Services Subcomponent
T. Status of the Diversified Economy RME Study
U. High-level Seminar on Railway Management and Organization
V. Foreign Study Tours
W. Status of Environmental Protection Study
X. Current Status of RME Studies
Y. Status of TMIS Implementation
10. Aide Memoire of July 1994 Preparation/Preappraisal Mission for Railway VII, with
the Following Mission Memoranda attached:
A. Railway VII Environmental Assessment Review
B. Tariff Reform: Preparation Checklist for Railway VII Appraisal Mission
C. Information Systems Short-term Action Plan
D. Resettlement Issues
E. Reforming the Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
F. Status of Railway Costing Study
G. Main Elements of Railway Restructuring/Enterprise Reform
H. Main Elements of Labor Productivity Policy Component
I. Outline of Foreign Study Tours for RME Studies
J. Economic Evaluation Information Needs
K. Work Schedule for RME Studies
L. Comments on the RME Diversified Economy Team Action Plans
M. Wuhan-Guangzhou Capacity Expansion
N. Request for LORIC Background Data
11. Aide Memoire of November 1994 Appraisal Mission for Railway VII, with the
following Mission Memoranda attached:
A. Action Plans for PID Components
B. Indicators and Targets for Monitoring the Progress and Effectiveness of Railway
VII Implementation
C. Completion Dates for Study Components
D. Project Monitoring and Supervision
E. Environmental Protection Programs
F. RIS Action Plan
G. Strengthening MOR's Treasury Function and Financial Resource Mobilization



- 132 -                        ANNEX 11
12. Working Papers
1. Railway Enterprise Reform Component
2. Government's Strategy for Restructuring China Rail
3. Summary of Railway Restructuring Experiments
4. Tariff Reform Component: Implementation Status
5. Technical Assistance for Costing and Cost Indexing
6. Labor Productivity and Pension Fund Management Component
7. Description of Corridor Expansion Component
8. Description of Information Systems Component
9. Technical Assistance for Information Systems Component
10. Description of Information Systems Studies (Study component)
11. Description of Telecommunications Component
12. Description of Telecommunications Systems Study
13. Railway Telecommunications Master Plan Overview
14. Description of Container Transport Commercialization Component
15. The Emergence of Competition in the Chinese Intermodal Container Industry
16. Preliminary Financial Results of Container Companies
17. Description of Environmental Protection Component
18. Railway Environmental Protection
19. Description of Systemwide Capacity Expansion Component
20. Technical Assistance for Systemwide Capacity Expansion Component
21. Description of Dedicated Passenger Rail Study Component
22. Description of RIS Study Component
23. Description of Diesel Engine Design Study Component
24. General Methodology for Economic Evaluation
25. Economic Evaluation of Corridor Expansion Component
26. Economic Evaluation of Information Systems Component
27. Economic Evaluation of Telecommunications Component
28. Economic Evaluation of Container Transport Commercialization Component
29. Economic Evaluation of Systemwide Capacity Expansion Component
30. Notes and Major Assumptions Underlying Financial Forecasts for Railway
Transport Operations
31. Resettlement Plan for Land Acquisition and Demolition for Electrification of the
Wuhan-Guangzhou Line



Chart C.1 General Organization Chart of Ministry of Railways
Minister
Security Bureau                      j    Secretariat
Systems Reform Bureau                             Foreign Cooperation Department
CHIEF        VICE MINISTER          VICE MINISTRVIEMNISTER                                                    VICE MINISTER
ENINE           I                                           rI3 
.                                  . .                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Capital Construction  Education &
CH IEF             Planning & Statistics                    General Bureau                    Health Dept.
Science &          DISPATCHER             BLureau
Tech. Bureau                            _FnneBra                          5 Design               Electrification      Cmisr
-Finance BureauInstitutes                          Bureau         -Cmisr
LCapital Settlement
Conmputer            Transport                  Center                                                                Hospitals
_o Center   BureauLabor & Wages                  Construction              Construction           Locomotive &             -
Bureau    Bureau                                    Bureaus                  Bureau         _    Rolling Stock
Appraisal           Rolling stock     _Audit Bureau                                                                      IndustaBridge  Factory  Cn l
Materials                   Construction              Construction
Signal &             Management                     Bureau                   Bureau              35 Locomotive
|   Foreign   1    Telecom.              Bureau/Company                                                              & Rolling Stock
<   Capital and |     Bureau                {      I      j                      | Civil Engineering                     Factories
Technical            Transport             ll                                        Company      l
Import Office         Safety                  11 Factories                             Cma
*           ~~~Bureaull
Permanent
World Bank           Way
Counterpart           Bureau
I       I                                                                       12 Regional |
Tie Factories]                                                                         Administrations
Railway Signal &
Communication
Company



Chart C.2 General Organization Chart of the Government of China
State Council
(Premier and Vice Premiers)
Industrial                      i       Coordinating                             Special-function
Sectors                                  Agencies                                   Agencies
Ministry of Railways   1               State Planning Commission                        State Auditing
(MOR)          ]                           (SPC)          J                __Administration_l
Ministry of                         State Economic & Trade
Communications                              Commission                             tate Statistics Bureau
(MOC)                          -          (SETC)
State Commission for                       State Environmental
.Ministry of Power Industry. 
Economic Restructuring                       Protection Agency
1iitr  foandsr       Ministry of Finance                     State Administration of
Ministry of Coal Industry                          (MOF)                                    Taxation
Others                                                                      General Administration of |
Others          _ - _      ~~Ministry of Labor    l                       Customsl
People's Bank of China                            Others
Others



Chart C.3 Long Distance Telephone Network
\AZAKHSTAN                                   RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                  )
|  KAZAKHSTAN             \V-\-.                                 \      <<4                                                         , /    
/ >~~~~~~7 
\...\                      J Hoiluer   gQqiho..  /
SI r_   T-         /MONGOLIA                                                                      Hrb,n
'5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
KYROYZ REPUBLI
UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                 h
Ni>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*A
.hw         _, *                                                    -I           yh,on        T i 'n<                w         ............................................ '   >. .....  . .
The. b-rld .k Gin.,
or  onp'  .ndos \./   >; bn -..., 1 rr 
o ers or ocp Gnu o su  . of n .w                                                                                                                                      LAt
Yogpnguzon                                 .,*    .      ',z' ' o 
d~~k.wi~~~ -dP                                                                                                                     P Ocv/< 2 / ,W-bF7Z     v>,j,, ;,,
l  CHINA                                                  Y                                                    R /                OCEAN
.       ~LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE NETWORK                      fXhnO;    -0 > H ciu                                 ep5ulO      ,.   <..i.  
mum...  DIGITALMICROWGWINuMLWAnon
OeTCl. LTRANSMISSON SYStEKI IN KAJLWAY Z.   J          i1                 I /        \b/ -                       .     '..  :
RAtLWAY NElWORK                                Kni>\J/)                                                      ; .. . 
SAl WTE nGROUND STATIONS NwA7r ne>Gr_hu a        RAJL  7.          .                                                                            w
*    NAllOfALCPTL*j ''< nn o,a.                                                                                 :     -: :
o~~~~~ - -          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES1   VlTNMpKY---
EL=                                                                                                     J'                 sobl..                                  ILALOFt
do~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Chart C.4 Data Communications Packet Switching Network                                            Jiamusi
lluhhod                           ^                               Jigor eSu.Ad'xilb
Sijb Admimlalon                                                                 Harb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SbAroo
'aolou4~  (4) S  Jliljilq Ydialogic                                   9\2Oiqili-r Hailaer        Mod
Srk AdmninisIralo n 4), $ehaotie -.. (Co UlanagerneA (   Haiber    Co4-7-
Ururoi()gor0 41-~ C2<i{i  
fmqi                                                    Ce  4 I/5i.
I00\ ,
S                                                                                                       Toai on\
XAB1n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sl<<   TO   C
da \   i0r9qlll9   dmillislalion   /V                 Ss   X           \   \               <  en  Sub).
Geethu 
* g \ (tDSt~~~~~~~~~~~~b/ mpa  t-<F zhoun
?ilchilan    d    Chan9sh\   __  _  __ __i. _
CMogqning~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iga
CInnr~~~~~~niKu
Changping ~,                                          ennin  Guenilzou Sii)  Admcho   wil  Fnslwu 1 1vlle    lqa
Sob
Ar Jrnini
>i1huang                                                                                                                                Saga
rgi~    Adrnmniisraronn
0  iyrng                                             Lla
A minin                                                                                                       Hangzhou Itnlbn  3lrr~rrrnrr
\ /uodcr BRauloay VIl  o<Jun Icr Ririway VII
sads'w513 19



- 137 -
Chart C.5 The Route Map of China Railways Container Company (CRC)
JiaM,uS;
ManZhouLC jHa-                           KiagX
Aratowpas                                       a416  MuDanJiang                                                  SuiFenHe
(j)  uEeI 
673
5119
Muan              Tian              DainY n
me        a Han   Ta                 aLia  a                 DaLAanPar
XiNing                                 1420SsNa CainX                                                                   E)=aL;anPcri
DaLlanBei
YinChuani (4                                        \       TianJin Port
LanZhouXi 0
i 448                                   i(a BaoDinig                                                          r
TaiY,-anDJang    T     hYanTal PoP
\. The SNationHadling4-ftCont ran                               inal
FIZZ,   ,rt                                                |                                    Port
nternainalContainer Traffic (InTJ  1997                                                           s         144Zheng Zhou Cong
BaoW                       D     o        g       L_DanYunnGa ng ort
/                       |                      \ ~~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~GangXi  HeJlia'Nan
///                             >5) ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~JinagAn                            /3
Cheong                                                      _HaX  s eJo ShangHat Port
DuDcn                                 X:nin34                       eel       ~=0 Sasa
8 \nga                                            309      Hee         Nan JingXi   Wuxi       /      i-gaX
/       \Cto~~~ngGng5DncngI/
I   )                            ,                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NanX g 
/    /                                 ( t ~~~~~~~       ~~ChangSha        io       Nn9       i!
/      _g~~~~GuiYan Dcng                      ZS'Y )12                                    Hua
\                 /|                        \ FuZh~~~~~~~~~~~~~ou
(: \ | Dx1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Na.Vei Port
Ku;nN1ingDcrg w 
cp!whuDong             jXiaaMen  a
,_fX            ~~~~~Guan   'XiaMien Pcrt
NanNing         >              Chongy (geb<Ds             Zhen2,3
Zh2n                       ;XaYuan
Jiarg    Zhan             t
Jiang Port  Huangi'u Pori
0    Major Container 'Handling Station
(g   The Station Handling 40-ft Containz r
0    Near Port Stat;on
D>   Port
-  I nternational Container Traffic (inTE J) 1 991                                                                      sads,:w5 1454:






100-                                     110                                        120-                                         130'
C    H    I N    A                                                                                                                   domoooo-on.onJ =nr
~ h;, n,p do -o
RAILWAY SYSTEM                                                                                                                                     Th. W2n  B Go.o
EXISTING:                                                              Iyor ooy .ndor,o,on,   50
DOUBLE TRACK RAILWAYS                                                                                                             ornoooepro|-. ofundoh
SINGLE TRACK RAILWAYS                                                                                                             boondo/ J,
. . . . .  ELECTRIFICATION                                                            o                                               RUSSIAN  FED.
X       NATIONAL MARSHALlUNG YARDS
0       REGIONAL MARSHALLING YARDS                                                                            J
PORTS
7         g    ~~~~RIVER PORTS                                      _                                                 ;Wyhg                      >   
D      SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                   ( )-
PROVINCE CAPITALS                           _                          ho,I',
I      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                             /
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                  !oocho                                                     k         oorgrlon h
-*-        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
------ PLANNED NEW RAILWAYS                                            9           J        Yo,hi                               HE/b ONGJI    C
BANK FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                     .r.  .0
RAILWAY LINES (ONGOING OR COMPLETED PROJECTS)                         ,o_
.  '__' * ELECTRIFICATION
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
*  TEPMINALSr                                                                                                     I        I\
''PROPOSED PROJECT (WITH ELECTRIFICATIONI                                                                                                 T.  S J  OgK     ->
O     EC FU NDED  PROJECTS:                         nong
RAILWAYS                                   ,                          _              0         100     200        30         00            L
~'    '    '   PEOPELECTRIFICATION                                                              0           2           400          6 W              I nETRS
F_-__~~~~~BRDE CONTRUTIO
THA  DEM. REP.d                                 g    HA/NAN                            @                      ,Y/g                                '' PO E'S
.-.-..'                                                                             4 /, 11                                    HLPIE
. 1.                                                                             NJI
FJI    <   g   ft  tt <9 CShoowut/<~~~~~~~~~~~EI                                      T
rS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ic                                                                                                     yoI1i                               REP IOF <,<        b)Icog ZtHoho j   nzog  lbhS
QI\\J8LNGeHAIz                                                                                                      Shiiiou
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W_, _   .    fb,APRT2
<:  > w   t   VIET  NAM       S   >*8S.ihu>5<                                                     Ioo       200       300       400       SOOMILES~~~~~~~~iH  30
>  ~        ~        ~         ~~~~                ~~ I  '\ N                  J HANA..l
w  THAILAND  '              z      \                   1l          )                                                                   ffi          '< r...  Nncho
o   100<  ]   St v_   f  \  \ev  <ss        1108                                                                 120 5 PHILIPPINES                     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~.9t.6..












