                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31554

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (CPL-38970 SCL-38976)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 400 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR THE

                                   SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT




                                              April 20, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Yuan
                                  Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                   US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.28

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
CR      China Railways
FCTIC   Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
NDRC    National Development and Reform Commission
MOR     Ministry of Railways
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SOE     State Owned Enterprises
TA      Technical Assistance
TMIS    Telecommunications and Traffic Management Information System

                            Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                          Country Director      David R. Dollar
                   Sector Manager/Director      Jitendra N. Bajpai
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         John C. Scales

                                            CHINA
                             SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P003571                                                  Project Name: CN-7th Railways
Team Leader: John Carter Scales                                      TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-7th Railways                                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-38970; SCL-38976
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Railways (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/02/1993                                     Effective: 03/19/1996
     Appraisal: 10/14/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/01/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/THE MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:        Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Nicholas C. Hope
Team Leader at ICR:             John C. Scales
ICR Primary Author:             Vickram Cuttaree; Jitendra
                                Sondhi; Richard Bullock


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to assist the Ministry of Railways to (i) redefine the relationship
between the Railway and the Government, (ii) reshape the railway's organization and strengthen its
internal management, (iii) expand the railway's transport capacity, raise its investment efficiency, and
enhance its finance; and (iv) modernize the railway's technologies and bolster the efficiency and quality
of its transport operations and service.

This project supported the Bank strategy for the Railways Sector in China to increase its capacity while at
the same time introduce China Rail to modern railway management and technologies.

Although the objectives reflect the Bank's strong desire to support the broad reform agenda and at the
same time to finance physical improvement, they appear to be lacking focus and client buy-in. The
subsequent restructuring of the project in 1999 can be partly explained by the fact that the project had
too many components and the client lacked commitment on some project components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was restructured in 1999 without any change in the overall objectives. The changes in
components are detailed in the "Revised Component" section.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project included seven components which are summarized below:
Component                                      Total Cost                       Bank Loan
                                              (US$ million)                    (US$ million)
                                           At appraisal (1995)             At Appraisal (1995)
Expanding corridor capacity                      955.3                             151.8
Modernizing Information Systems                  199.6                             38.9
Upgrading Telecommunications                     131.9                             39.7
Commercializing container                        153.1                             26.3
Transport
Enhancing Environmental                           6.7                               4.4
Protection
Expanding System Capacity                        123.8                             92.5
Technical Assistance                              7.4                               7.2

Sub-Total                                       1,577.8                            360.8
Total (incl. Physical and price                 1,747.5                            400
contingency)

Expanding Corridor Capacity (subsequently restructured): The project included the electrification
and upgrading of 890 km of the 1,044 km Wuhan-Guangzhou line (the last remaining section of the
Beijing-Guangzhou trunk line to be electrified and modernized).

Modernizing Information System: The project financed the acquisition of computer hardware, software
and a related TA to help railway managers make better-informed decision and improve railway efficiency
and service quality.

Upgrading Telecommunications Systems: The project financed the acquisition of telecommunications
equipment and related TA to enable MOR expand and modernize the railway's trunk transmission and
data telecommunication networks.




                                                   - 2 -

Commercializing Container Transport (subsequently restructured): The component planned to
finance the purchasing of container transport and handling equipment and for a TA and the computer
software needed to modernize and commercialize rail-based container transport operations.

Enhancing Environmental Protection: The project financed a TA and equipment for MOR to (a)
undertake pilot programs to address pressing environmental problems; and (b) strengthen the
capabilities of its environmental staff.

Expanding System Capacity (subsequently restructured): This component was designed to help
MOR initial efforts in its long-term plan to introduce heavy-haul operations, employing heavier trains with
a higher ratio of payload to tare weight, to the core network. The project was to finance the procurement
of three-phase AC electric locomotives, including equipment, tools, spare parts and training, and secure
heavy-haul expertise, including helping MOR to progressively raise the axle load limit on the core
network from 21 to 25 tonnes.

Technical Assistance (subsequently restructured): The project financed studies to implement (a)
railway enterprise reform, (b) railway tariff reform, and (c) labor productivity enhancement. It also
provided MOR with a series of TAs (including software in some cases) to prepare future railway projects
and to develop and apply new railway technologies and management techniques: (d) a feasibility study
of dedicated passenger rail, (f) an application of the RIS Decision Support System, (g) Information
Systems Studies, (h) a Telecommunications Network Systems Study, (i) a Diesel Engine Design study,
(j) an action plan for Restructuring the Railway's Manufacturing and Overhaul Sector, training to
strengthen MOR's Treasury Function.

Assessment: The project was within the implementing capacity of MOR and extensive effort was made
by the Bank in appraising it. The appraisal team used published information from MOR (such as the
30-point Action Statement) and several working papers were prepared to support the appraisal. However,
in retrospect, the project tried to deal with too many issues and the combination of line-specific physical
improvements (implemented by regional administrations) and several TAs with a more global policy
focus (implemented by central units) contributed to increasing the project complexity and the lack of
commitment of the borrower to some components. There was also limited consistency between the
stated objectives and the project components.

3.4 Revised Components:
The reasons for the restructuring were that (i) MOR's decision to accord higher priority to the
Beijing-Kowloon line caused a shortfall in counterpart funds, requiring additional funding for the
Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification; (ii) MOR and the Bank could not reach an agreement on the
procurement of AC electric locomotives, (iii) MOR belief that container transport by rail was sub-optimal
led to the container transport component being canceled and (iv) recent changes in CR operation
resulted in some TA being less relevant. As a result, the total amount of the loan was reduced from US$
400 million to US$ 371 million and the loan closing date changed from December 31, 2002 to June 30,
2003. The reasons for restructuring are more detailed in Section 5 of the ICR.

The following components were revised:
Expanding corridor capacity: Because of higher traffic demand on the Beijing-Kowloon line, MOR
decided to give it higher priority and redirect funds to this line, causing a shortfall in counterpart funds.
This shortfall resulted in MOR requesting that US$ 100.0 million be added to the Bank lending for the
electrification of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line.

Commercializing container transport: During the mid-term review of this component, the Bank team
concluded that it was premature and unrealistic to assume that the component could be implemented
within the timeframe of the project. This component was then cancelled.




                                                      - 3 -

Expanding system capacity: MOR sent the Bank draft bidding documents for the AC-electric
locomotives (US$ 100 million) shortly after the loan became effective in March 1996. However, the Bank
withheld its "no objection" to the documents because the technical specifications did not provide for ICB
procurement; in addition the starting tractive effort for the locomotives to be procured was only 12
percent better than that of the existing locomotives. MOR and the Bank could not reach an agreement on
the technical specifications of the locomotives and MOR obtained in May 1997 bilateral financing as an
alternative to the Bank's loan.

Technical assistance: During the mid-term review, MOR advised the Bank that it would like to maintain
the overall amount allocated in the original Railway VII for technical assistance/studies but requested to
replace some studies by some items which they considered were better linked to CR's current interests.

The loan was restructured as follows:
Component                          Original Allocation      Revised Allocation         Actual
                                      (US$ million)            (US$ million)        (US$ million)
Expanding corridor capacity               151.8                   249.0                199.2
Modernizing Information                    38.9                   38.9                  44.1
Systems
Upgrading                                  39.7                   39.7                  19.9
Telecommunications
Commercializing container                  26.3                     0                     0
Transport
Enhancing Environmental                    4.4                     4.4                   2.0
Protection
Expanding System Capacity                  92.5                     0                     0
Technical Assistance                       7.2                     7.2                   3.0

Sub-Total                                 360.8                   339.2                268.2
Total (incl. Physical and                 400.0                   371.0                277.6
Price contingency)

Actual expenditure was US$278 million, compared to US$ 371 million following restructuring. About
US$139 million in savings occured due to competitive prices using ICB procedures. Following the
corporate separation of railways communication from MOR, the data telecommunication network project
was cancelled, saving a further US$ 10 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory. Although the timing of the project was well chosen, was in
line with the CAS and extensive effort was put in the preparation, the project design was too ambitious
and did not take into consideration the institutional constraints and commitment of the implementing
agency. The State Council approved in 1994 a 30-Point Action Plan Statement of Railway Reform,
prepared by MOR, which was used to support the preparation. The CAS aimed to assist China in
alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks, reforming SOEs, and safeguarding the environment. Moreover, 31
working papers were prepared on the different project components. However, there was a disconnect
between the project objectives and its components: with the exception of some TA, there was no specific
component to help "redefine the relationship between railway and the government" and "reshape
railway's organization and strengthen its internal management". There was also limited evidence in the
appraisal that MOR was fully committed to implement all project components, such as the Container
Transport Commercialization. Thus, the project complexity could have been reduced to allow for
appropriate timing of reforms and to reflect more MOR's needs.




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcomes are discussed below by objective. The overall project objective outcome is rated
satisfactory.

The original objectives fell into four groups:

(i)      Redefine relationship between railway and government; and
(ii)      Reshape the railway's organization and strengthen its internal management

The review of these two sections is combined as they are linked and both supported by a set of TA. This
project included several studies designed to support the reform of China railways and reshape its internal
organization, specifically to improve the regulatory framework, examine financing strategies, improve
labor productivity and develop the structure of a PSO system.

         Outcome. The achievements of these objectives are rated satisfactory for both of them.
Although it is difficult to measure the direct contribution of the specific TAs, substantial institutional
reforms have been implemented since then and the overall direction of change has been in line with
what was recommended by the Bank. Moreover, many of the tools financed through the project are in
wide use today and are instrumental in supporting the reform process. The studies focused on several
key areas such as railway reforms, labor productivity enhancement, application of new railway
technology and management techniques, and improvement of environmental staff capabilities.

There was extensive discussion and debate of all the related issues during the life of this project and
several important steps have been taken to reform the railway system to meet the needs of the market
economy. In particular, as noted in the ICR for Railways VI, the Outline of the Tenth Five-Years Plan For
National Economic And Social Development (Approved by the Fourth Session of the Ninth National
People's Congress on March 15, 2001), stated that the purpose of the government is `To accelerate the
reform of transportation management system and operation mechanisms with the core focus on the
separation of the government functions and the enterprise functions, railways will "separate infrastructure
from transport operations"'.

More concretely, over the last decade, substantial institutional reforms have taken place within MOR,
with many non-core activities divested and overall employment reduced by about 1 million staff. MOR is
increasingly focussing on the 'government' role and providing individual `railway enterprises' (e.g.
regional administrations) with substantial operational autonomy. Within the administrations, Passenger
Transport business has been separated on accounting basis.

(iii) Expand the railway's transport capacity, raise its investment efficiency, and enhance its
finance: This originally had two components but was reduced to the Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification
following the 1999 loan restructuring

         Outcome. The achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. The electrification of the
Wuhan to Guangzhou line was completed and commissioned in September 2001, with its freight
capacity increasing by about 24% and an increase in maximum speed of 10-20%. This completes the
electrification and modernization of the Beijing-Guangzhou trunk line. Most of the key performance
indicators have been achieved (or close to target) or exceeded (please refer to Annex 1 for details). One
exception is the average speed for passenger train (88 km/hr vs. 136 km/hr) but it seems that there was
a mistake in the project restructuring document: it is a very high value for passenger train speed and the
original appraisal indicates only a target speed of 71-71 km/hr. Currently, the line is again broadly at
capacity; the passenger traffic using the line is greater than expected at appraisal but the freight traffic is
less, reflecting the increased emphasis of MOR over the period on the improvement of its passenger
services, as well as the diversion of a greater proportion of freight traffic than expected to the parallel
Beijing to Kowloon line.



                                                      - 5 -

(iv) Modernize the railway's technologies and bolster the efficiency and quality of its transport
operations and service

The project funded three physical components covering the continued implementation of TMIS,
upgrading the telecommunications system and environmental protection. It also financed a series of
studies to strengthen MOR internal management, covering the RIS investment support system,
TMIS-related studies and diesel engine design. In addition some of the loan savings from the
Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification were used to finance track maintenance equipment.

         Outcome. The achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. Although the impact of
network-wide system investments such as these is not easy to assess directly, the overall impact of
these interventions was strongly positive. MOR can now manage its railway system on a real time basis.
TMIS has played an increasingly important role in the management of train operations and the loan
provided funds for a series of upgrades and improvements over the six years from 1998 to 2004. The
introduction of a modem telecommunications system was a prerequisite for the implementation of the
traffic management information system.

During the project period, MOR obtained a license for providing commercial telecom services on its
internal telecommunication system and established a new company (RAILCOM) for this purpose, which
is now responsible for the infrastructure funded with the loan.

The continued introduction of modem mechanized track maintenance procedures also had a significant
impact in improving track quality and enabling MOR to speed-up its services and compete more
effectively with other modes of transport.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Expanding Corridor Capacity. This component is rated highly satisfactory. The outputs for the
related components are as follows:

Electrification and upgrading of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line
         Output. Electrification of the Wuhan - Guangzhou line was completed and the line opened to
electrified services in 2001. The cost of this component was 30% more (in terms of US$) than budgeted
at the time of appraisal even though the Bank financed equipment cost 25% less than expected. This
higher than budgeted cost is explained by the high inflation rate during the years during and following the
preparation (24% in 1994, 17% in 1995, 8% in 1996 and 3% in 1997) and possible additional works that
were done along the line. The saving on Bank-funded equipment is explained by the use of ICB for
procurement.

         Implementation of Safeguards. The implementation of both the environmental and
resettlement policies was rated satisfactory and no problems were reported. The last supervision
occured in 2001, after the completion of the capacity expansion component.

Track Maintenance: A list of the equipment purchased for the electrification project is provided in section
9 of the client report.
         Output. The component has been very successful. It is a component with high client ownership,
as demonstrated by the development of a special program for engineering and maintenance during the
Eleventh Five Year Plan. It has allowed them to mechanize track maintenance, make moderate
reductions in the labor force, reduce track closure times, and improve maintenance quality.

Upgrading Telecommunication Systems. The telecommunications equipment procured included the
transmission network, telecommunication network, satellite communication network, microwave
transmission network and satellite telephone network. During the project period, railway communications
were separated from the railway proper and placed in a stand-alone company.




                                                    - 6 -

         Output. This component is rated highly satisfactory. For most indicators, the technical
performance of the telecommunication system was well above the target by 2000, and even more so by
2003. The new company is now responsible for the infrastructure funded with the loan.

The performance of the upgraded telecommunications system, together with the targets set at project
appraisal, is summarized in Annex 1.

Modernizing Information Systems (TMIS)
During Railway VII, the equipment purchased under Railway VI was further developed, with the project
financing mainframe computers, yard computers and terminals, and some special-purpose software
implemented for automatic wagon number recognition, container tracking and a ticket and waybill
information database.

         Output. This component is rated highly satisfactory. TMIS is now fully implemented, providing
on-line information to operational management.

The development of a computer based transport planning model, RIS, was initiated in 1989 using a
PHRD grant with the results being used as input to the 1992 Sector Report--China Railway Strategy. The
activities funded under the current project were designed to strengthen the functionality of the model.
The model has been improved by MOR and its consultants and is in use. Specifically, MOR used this
model to evaluate and rank investment options for inclusion in the 11th Five Year Plan.

Enhancing Environmental Protection and Technical Assistance
The two components have been reviewed together as they are both supported by TAs. The objective of
these components was to support MOR in areas such as improving environmental stafff capabilities,
railway reforms, labor productivity enhancement and to apply new railway technologies and management
techniques.

         Output. These two components are rated satisfactory. It is very difficult to assess the impact of
a few individual studies on an organization as big and complex as MOR. After the list of TA was
reviewed to accommodate MOR's most recent needs, the studies were completed and contributed to
improving MOR's overall performance, as noted in sections (i), (ii) and (iv) of the outcome assessment.
Some of the reforms have taken place (such as separation of the passenger transport business on an
accounting basis) and even if others have yet to be implemented (such as the separation of
infrastructure from transport operations), our improved policy interaction with MOR shows that several
steps to reform the railway system have benefited from the two project components.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project estimated EIRR was recalculated after the Project restructuring and was equal to 28.9% (with
25.8% for the "Expansion of Corridor Capacity", 30.2% for the "Upgrading of the Telecommunications
Systems" and 42.2% for the "Modernization of Information Systems"). Although the PAD included
estimates of the EIRR for the telecommunications and TMIS components, these were based on
generalised assumptions about the impact of these management systems on the general level of railway
efficiency. It is not possible to directly identify such impacts in practice, particularly given the many other
changes that have occurred since the PAD was originally prepared in 1994, and for the purposes of
preparing this report, the project team has restricted the economic reevaluation to the electrification of
the Wuhan-Guangzhou line.

The EIRR reevaluation has been conservative and incorporated what could be measured or reasonnably
assumed as costs and benefits. However, as detailed in the Annex 3, assumptions have been made
about the project funds that were devoted to the electrification component and the related portion of the
benefits that were derived from it. Thus 51% of the project expenditure was included in the re-evaluation
($US 602.4 million out of $US 1,160 million of actual total project costs). The benefits are grouped into
two categories: (i) capacity-expansion related benefits (total benefits of $US 259 million) and (ii)
operating cost-related benefits (total benefits of $US 2,913 million).



                                                       - 7 -

The estimated EIRR for the Wuhan - Guangzhou component is 12.4 percent. This relatively low figure
does not mean that the electrification project was not a success. Among the benefits, one, avoiding an
increase in road capacity, did not occur. Moreover, benefits associated with many other improvements,
though part of this component, could not be isolated and accounted for. Finally, the undervaluation of the
Chinese RMB further discounted the operating and capacity benefits generated by the electrification. The
sensitivity analysis, with more favorable assumptions regarding shadow pricing of labor or time savings,
indicated an increase in the EIRR to 15.9 percent. The details of the re-evaluation are in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated at Appraisal

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development Impact is rated as substantial. As noted in the ICR for Railway 6, while it
is not always clear how the Bank has influenced individual decisions about reform within MOR, the
overall impact of our involvement has been very positive. It is also difficult to assess the impact of an
individual project on an organization as big and complex as China Railways. However, our advice was
valued and frequently sought on railway-reform related issues. Over the last few years a number of high
level meetings have been held between Bank staff and the Minister and Vice-Ministers of Railway to
discuss reform and the overall direction of change. Also, given the high system-wide impact of some of
the project components, in particular the TMIS and track maintenance, it is clear that the projects have
supported the past reform process and are having an important and continuing impact on the operations
of China railways.




                                                    - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project area experienced severe floods in the early stages of project implementation. This required
certain flood protection works to be carried out prior to physical implementation of the
Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification. In addition, other related works to enhance capacity also caused delay
in project implementation.

For instance, quality problems with the supplier of contact wire for the catenary system delayed the
completion of the Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification by about six months.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was no factor subject to government control that affected the implementation and outcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The decision by MOR to accord higher priority to completion of the Beijing-Kowloon railway line, parallel
to the Wuhan-Guangzhou segment, caused the shortfall in counterpart funds. The traffic demand on the
Beijing-Kowloon line exceeded the one on the Wuhan-Guangzhou line and MOR decided to redirect the
available funds. This affected the pace of implementation and the project had to be subsequently
restructured in January 1999. The restructuring led to discontinuation of the AC electric locomotive
component (about US$ 100 million), enlargement of the corridor expansion component that included
Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification (by US$ 98 million) and cancellation of the container transport
component (about US$ 29 million). The total amount of the loan was reduced from US$ 400 to 371
million and the loan closing date was changed from December 31, 2002 to June 30, 2003 and
subsequently extended to September 30, 2004.

MOR (the implementing agency) and the Bank could not agree on the draft bidding documents submitted
for the procurement of the 32 new AC electric locomotives since they did not provide for ICB procedure
(as per the Loan Agreement) and the proposed technical specifications indicated a lower power rating
than that agreed to during project preparation. The implementing agency did not thus fully implement the
commitments made earlier leading to dropping of this component. MOR also had second thoughts about
the container transport component that focused on commercialization of rail-based container transport
operations and sought its cancellation.

There was considerable delay in the bid evaluation by MOR for automatic block equipment that caused a
delay of over one year in its procurement and installation. A similar delay occurred in the procurement of
the SCADA traction remote control system.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost estimates for equipment procured with Bank funding through ICB procedures were invariably
found to be high, leading to savings. Some of the savings (US$ 39.5 million) were utilized to procure
additional project related equipment but US$ 90 million was cancelled from the loan.

While the cost of Bank funded equipment and services was well within the estimates, the cost of locally
funded equipment, services and works was higher than the project appraisal estimates by about 40
percent. Most of the local cost overrun comes from a high inflation rate during the first few years
following preparation, which was not anticipated during the original appraisal.




                                                     - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely. MOR has shown remarkable ability for implementing
complex physical projects and this project was no exception. The Wuhan-Guangzhou corridor expansion
that included electrification over a route of 890 km was carried out on a congested working railway and
completed in a reasonable period of about three years. MOR also successfully implemented the
components related with modernization of its information system (TMIS), upgrading telecommunications
and technical studies. MOR has robust maintenance systems and is proficient in asset maintenance.
Therefore, sustainability of the assets created by the project is highly likely. In line with the project
objective of improving quality of service, the passenger services on Wuhan-Guangzhou sector have
seen a reduction in travel time and an improvement in comfort level. This trend is expected to continue
in the future as MOR strives to meet the competitive challenge from highways and air transport by
sustained improvement in service quality coupled with competitive pricing.

In respect to the project objectives of redefining the relationship between railway and government and
reshaping of railway's organisation and strengthening its internal management, the success has been
more difficult to measure directly. However, MOR has taken several steps towards these two goals that
will enable it to meet the challenge of functioning in a market economy and growing competition from
road and air. These include:
l    Separation of a number of non-core units including manufacturing factories, companies handling
     materials and supplies and railway communications, four railway design bureaus, and 38
     construction units
l    Separation of a large number of social activities, mostly by transfer to local authorities, including 225
     primary and secondary schools, about 50 kindergartens and 13 hospitals.
l    Separation of passenger transport business within RRAs on an accounting basis, and of about 100
     branch lines from main lines on an accounting basis
l    Introduction of new regulations to permit foreign investment in railways, as required under WTO
     agreements.
l    Creation of three, special-purpose companies to handle containers, special cargo (oversized and
     perishable cargos) and Post and Parcels.

These measures enabled MOR to reduce the staff deployed on transport services from 2.03 million in
1995 to 1.53 million at the end of 2003, a reduction of about 25%. Over the same period its staff
productivity increased from 749 to 1455 thousand ctkm per person, an increase of 94 percent. However,
it has not yet established a plan for the separation of ministry functions (policy and regulation) from the
operational railway responsible for the enterprise. This aspect is now being handled by NDRC and it is
expected that a suitable format will be developed shortly as the State Council is keen to redefine the
relationship between the ministry and the railway enterprise.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There was minimal disruption to existing traffic during the construction period on the Wuhan-Guangzhou
line. The transition period to regular operation was short and is already over.




                                                     - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance at lending is rated unsatisfactory. The Bank prepared the project with the active
participation of the client. However, a very complex project was developed that was rather ambitious in
its objectives with respect to redefinition of the relationship between the railway and the government and
restructuring of railway organization. The wide range and large number of components added to the
project's complexity. In hindsight, it appears that some components were introduced too early and that
the Bank team was optimistic about the level of commitment and ownership of MOR with respect to
certain policy changes included in the project, such as the commercialization of rail transportation of
containers. This resulted in the need to restructure the project about three years after the loan became
effective.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank supervised the project on a regular basis in a satisfactory manner. Initially, project
implementation was slow due to the shortfall in counterpart funding and unresolved issues related to the
procurement of AC Electric locomotives. After the restructuring of the project in January 1999, the pace
of implementation and disbursement picked up. Restructuring caused the loan closing date to be
changed by six months from December 31, 2002 to June 30, 2003. After this extension and a second to
allow completion of the delayed TA contracts, the loan actually closed on September 30, 2004. There
were no residual problems that required resolution except that one TA study, on further development of
the TMIS, was only partially completed and its final phase will be taken up as part of the on-going
National Railways Project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory. All physical components have been
implemented satisfactorily and overall the project has achieved its development objectives. The project
objective regarding redefinition of the relationship between the railway and the government and the
restructuring of railway organization has been achieved only partially. As a result of the TA studies
carried out and the continuing dialog with the Bank, the government and MOR now have a much better
understanding of the rationale and need for railway restructuring. The State Council has now assigned
the responsibility of railway restructuring to NDRC which is engaged in a dialog with the Bank. It is
expected that a suitable restructuring format will be developed in the near future.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in Preparation is rated unsatisfactory. Although MOR worked closely with
the Bank during the preparation of the project, it became apparent during the early stages of the project
implementation that MOR was not fully committed to the commercialization of rail transportation of
containers. The ownership of MOR for some of the TA studies was also lukewarm, leading to the delay in
implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government did not have any negative impact on the implementation of the project. The
Government implementation performance is therefore rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Some issues impacted the implementation but
they mostly occurred before restructuring or originated during project preparation. Moreover, the
successful implementation post-restructuring and the overall positive project outcome compensate for
the implementation issues. The corridor expansion of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line was implemented
successfully with limited disruption to existing traffic during the construction period. The implementation
of physical components was carried out with speed and efficiency. However, the implementation of TA
studies was slow, apparently due to lack of capacity and enthusiasm of the beneficiary departments



                                                      - 11 -

within MOR. Another problem encountered was the slow disbursement, due to a lack of counterpart
funds following a higher priority given by MOR to the completion of the Beijing-Kowloon railway line
(parallel to the Wuhan-Guangzhou segment). Finally, the implementation agency did not fully implement
the commitments made regarding the procurement of the AC locomotives.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, MOR's performance was satisfactory. The development objectives were achieved and,
following the project restructuring, the implementation of the project was satisfactory.




                                                  - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

This was a successful project although it had a slow start and had to be restructured 33 months after the
date of loan effectiveness. The reasons for project restructuring have been discussed in section 5 above.


The risk for delays in implementation increases if the project is complex and has multiple
objectives and a large number of components.
The multiple objectives and the large number of components, and the lack of commitment to some
components by MOR contributed to the project restructuring. It did not help that the project also
combined a regional component (corridor expansion of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line) representing the
major portion of the loan, and several smaller components impacting the whole organization.

The project objectives and components should have a direct and strong relationship to ensure
success in achieving project objectives. The project objectives were to (a) redefine the relationship
between railway and the government, (b) reshape the railway's organization and strengthen its internal
management, (c) expand railway's transport capacity, raise its investment efficiency and enhance its
finance, and (d) modernize the railway's technologies and bolster the efficiency and quality of its
transport operations and service. Project components such as expanding corridor capacity,
modernization of information systems, upgrading communication systems and expanding system
capacity were directly related with objective (c) and (d) and did help achieve these objectives
substantially. However, the project, aside from a few TA studies, did not directly address objectives (a)
and (b).

The readiness for implementation, timing of reforms, and level of commitment of the borrower to
implement the proposed reforms have to be ensured during project appraisal. Apparently MOR did
not support the commercialization of rail transportation of containers at the time of appraisal. Till
recently, MOR held the view that container transport by rail was sub-optimal because of the reduced
payload per unit of capacity when goods move in containers rather than in break bulk in situations of
constrained capacity. This problem appears more to be of a project component being introduced too
early, with limited commitment from the client, and China Railways is now moving in this direction. The
difference in expectations regarding the procurement of locomotives is another problem that contributed
to the project restructuring, and which could have been clarified during project appraisal.

The cost estimates of the borrower should be rechecked carefully against international
(comparable countries) and historical prices to avoid high levels of savings. MOR based its cost
estimates on prices it had paid for similar equipment. In actual fact the prices contracted for equipment
were substantially lower resulting in the savings of about US$ 139 million against an estimated cost of
US$ 330 million. MOR was of the view that the savings arose due to competitive prices quoted under
ICB procedure.

Monitoring indicators should be based on well-defined data that are routinely collected by the
borrower. If a new statistic is selected as a monitoring indicator, there is a high probability that such data
will not be available during and after project implementation, except by special studies. In the case of the
electrification of Wuhan-Guangzhou component, `operating expenses per thousand ctkm' was selected
as an indicator. The origin of this indicator was not documented at the time of appraisal but it is actually a
China-wide (rather than section-specific) planning figure which has not been recalculated for 10 years
and which is updated by national indexation.




                                                    - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 1.     Capacity Expansion Component:

 1.1    Outcome/Achievement of Objective:

 1.1.1 Wuhan - Guangzhou Line (Description):

 This electrification double-tracked section of line is the south section              of the heavily used
 Beijing-Guangzhou Line. It passes through an economically important area in the south central region
 of China. It carries both freight and passengers between center of china, south of china at relatively
 high intensities. The electrification of this line relieved the congested conditions of railway transport
 form north to south of China, and accelerated the economic development of the areas along the line. It
 also reduced the pollution to the environment, and enforced the sustainable energy strategy of China.
 Meanwhile, it reduced the transportation cost of railway enterprises.

 The overall performance rating of the project is 100%, and good-quality rating is more than 90%, with
 excellent safety during construction and no significant operating accidents even though construction
 continued along busy existing lines for long periods. The technical standards used were suitable and
 the overall planning and design rational. The overall evaluation of the design and quality is very
 satisfactory.

 The project represents a great improvement in the scientific and technological standards. In respect of
 communication, signal, power and so on, a large amount of advanced technologies and equipment
 have been imported, which accelerated the research and development of the best domestic equipment
 and the modernization of China' electrified railway system.

 To increase the loadings of the trains and to speed-up transportation and reduce waste, some matching
 projects were implemented at the same time as the electrification: the sidetracks of stations have been
 added; at grade crossings have been changed into flyovers; new high-speed switches have replaced
 the old ones. While electrifying the busy main line, the problem of managing the interference between
 constructions and running trains has been managed well. This experience can be applied during the
 electrification of other busy main lines in the future.

 The environmental protection measures such as sound barrier facilities introduced at the Shanxiang
 Market in Changsha city. Testing was made on a 24-hour basis to monitor noise levels at sensitive
 spots before and after construction, according to the requests of MOR and the World Bank.

 1.1.2 Wuhan-Guangzhou Line (Results):

       The improvements along this line included the following:
 l   After completion of the project, All 43 kg tracks of departure tracks have been changed into 50 kg
     rails and the rail of this line were continuously welded which will allow for increases in speed along
     this line.
 l   The signal equipment along this line have been interlocked together and more powerful
     electric/hydraulic switches introduced to ensure the safe transportation.
 l   Optical fiber communication and wireless networks have been provided alongside the line.
 l   The wiring for the signaling and power supply have been updated, which ensures the safety and
     reliability of signals, and power supply and also creates favorable conditions for any increase of
     power supply.
 l   After electrification, the efficiency of the locomotive depots have reached the highest domestic
     standards.
 l   3 new passenger stations were built at Xianning, Chibi and Miluo along the line. For those new
     stations, the passenger waiting rooms have been updated, which offer safer and more comfortable
     conditions for passengers.



                                                     - 14 -

In 2000, there were 32 passenger train pairs operated between Wuhan to Puqi and 40 passenger train
pairs between Puqi to Guangzhou. After project in 2003, the passenger train pairs increased to 39 pairs
and 45 pairs respectively. Converted turnover of this line (north section) was 3.381 billion ton/km for
Wuhan-Puqi section and 48.266 billion ton/km in 2000. After project, above figure is going up to 3.623
billion ton/km and 49.894 billion ton/km.down-direction 4.649 bil.ton/km. The freight density also
increased from 45% to 50% for the whole line. The passenger train speed jumps up from 76km per
hour in 2000 to 88 km per hour in 2003. The freight train speed rose up from 40 km per hour to 5o km
per hour compare with before and after project . At same time ,the average operation cost also grew up
from 400 RMB per 1000km in 2000 to 500 in 2003.RMB per 1000km.

1.2 Sustainability
Wuhan-guangzhou electrification line is one of main railway lines in the network of the Chinese
Railways. With the rapid economic development of areas along the two lines, the demand for freight
and passenger transportation rose quickly. In the future, not only the local volume but also the through
volume of freight and passenger transportation will increase steadily.

In the pass years, it has been increase the speed of passenger trains. The proposed improvements will
include, adjustment of the curves, strengthening and stabilizing the contact system, and reinforcement
of bridges. Through the increase in operating speed, the running time of the project lines will shortened,
so as to satisfy passengers' demand for rapid and convenient transportation.

The project was implemented while these busy lines continued in operation. The coordination of design,
implementation, and construction and the high consciousness of the need to maintain quality were all
very important. Advanced and reliable technologies and methods were adopted to ensure the principle
of "first, safety; second, quality; third, speed". There were no accidents during the implementation of
the project.

Under the direct help of experts form the Bank; the environmental protection has assisted the objective
of sustainability.

All the staff had been trained to use the new equipment and new technologies.

All the imported equipment included the required spare parts for more than 2 years of operations.

1.3    The Reasons for Decrease of Investments for Wuhan-Guangzhou Line:

The Wuhan-Guangzhou Railway Line was an important project in national "Tenth Five Plan". In the
1995 Staff Appraisal Report of the World Bank, the overall estimated budget of this project was $1127
millions, of which $400 million was to be provided by the Bank. The actual investment is $960million,
including$281 million from the Bank.

It is about 8 years since the start of the project the actual costs of the investment have decreased. The
main reasons are that MOR decided to keep existing statues of Wuhan-Guangzhou line and Beijing-
Kowloon line completed in 1996.

There is no any other additional project included




                                                    - 15 -

1.4    Lessons Learned for Wuhan-Guangzhou Line:

1.4.1 Restruction and Amendment to Loan Agreement
For a variety reasons, (such as the change of technical policies, actual market conditions, the quick
development of new technology, and insufficient up-front preparation), implementation time for
Wuhan-Guangzhou project was longer than expected. Also, the cost estimates had to be adjusted
during amendment to loan agreement in 1999.

14.2 A large amount of saving has been occurred during implementation of the project
Procurement for the most equipments are by ICB, In practice, some bidders reduced the price of their
bids (even lower than the price of materials) in order to win, but could not carry out the contract or
provide the quality of goods specified. This factor influenced the project implementation time for the
project. But on other hand, a large amount of saving was occurred.

Putting so many contingencies fee into consideration at beginning of project, which caused the saving
of the loan. Total U$D 90 million was cancelled before close date of Seventh Railway loan.

1.5    Land Expropriation and Environmental Protection

1.5.1 Land Expropriation:

The land acquisition work of Wuhan-Guangzhou Line was monitored by Southwest Jiaotong University
from1999. Meanwhile, the resettlement experts from the World Bank guided and checked the work
annually. In 1999, the delegation of the Bank came to Wuhan-Guangzhou Line and checked the
resettlement conditions, which it then thought satisfied the Bank's requirements.

The land expropriation work of Wuhan-Guangzhou Line involved in 26 cities and counties along this
line. There were 2927 mu land was expropriated, and more than 90,796 square meter of housing were
demolished. These activities were managed jointly by the local governments and relevant office within
railway administration. There were three methods for compensating the affected persons: 1.
Redistribution of land; 2. Providing alternative development sites: 3. Cash compensation. The basic
assumption of this method was that all who accepted these payments would be volunteers.
Total cash compensation given to affected household reached 151.13 mil. RMB. Among them, there
was 117.14 mil. RMB used for Guangdong province; 33.17 mil. RMB for Hunan province.

Wuhan-Guangzhou electrification line was put into operation in 2002. Because of the serious attention
of MOR and local governments, the land expropriation work was fulfilled on time. All the people
affected were resettled and compensated, and both they and local government were satisfied.
Through the above-mentioned policies, the production and living standards of the families affected had
been well taken care of and their living conditions were much better than before. Most of them were
satisfied with their new houses. In respect of arrangement of production, some people got new land, or
were found work after getting compensation. Their incomes generally increased after this arrangement.
After getting the compensation for land expropriation, the villages used the money to improve the
welfare of their villagers, or to improve the conditions for cultivation.

1.5.2 Environmental Protection

In south section of Wuhan to Guangzhou line passes through mountainous areas, thus the protection of
environment and vegetation was very important. During construction, the slopes have been stabilized,
and some additional afforestation took place along the line. Some additional protection has also been
included for the trees that have been transplanted during construction.
Using electric trains, compared with diesel ones, eliminated CO2 in tunnels and the noise protection
measures also implemented for the line.




                                                  - 16 -

2.     Track Maintenance Component:

From 1999-2003, the track maintenance equipment procured financed by Seventh Railway VII project
included: tamping machine: 15 sets; Dynamic track stabilizer: 2 sets; Ballast cleaning machine: 2 sets;
Ballast regulating machine: 2 sets; Rail grinding train; Rail flaw detection car: 1 set; Switch grinding
machine: 1 set; Testing devices for track maintenance equipments: 1 set. Utilizing totally foreign loan is
U$D 49.65 mil. and domestic fund 12.41 mil. USD. The operational results of using this equipment
achieved or surpassed the predictions at the outset of the project.

After the completion Railway VII project, there are in total 19 overhaul depots. The teams can
over-haul and maintain 36,000 km of line, and 11700 sets of switches, which ensures more efficient
overhaul and maintenance of a significant part of the main lines in China, especially benefiting efforts
to increase operating speeds. With the large maintenance equipment, 19 maintenance teams reduce
the closed time by about 5000 hours per year; the interval between overhauls is improved from 7 years
to 10 years; and. Meanwhile, the using of large maintenance equipment reduces the labor intensity of
works and makes them more consistent.

Rail Grinders machine can cover about 600 km of rail per year, expanding the life of the tracks by
about 1.5 times, improving the quality of railway transport, and improving the quality of service for
passengers. Rail Detector Cars can cover detection about 6000 track km per year on average, and
detect about 80% of rail flaws, which raises efficiency and improves the safety of transportation.

The Railway VII Project has played an important role in the improvement of the engineering and
maintenance activities of China Railway. Due to the great benefits from this component, the
government has developed an additional program for engineering and maintenance work during
"Eleventh Five Plan". We hope that special arrangement can be supported by the World Bank.

3. Telecommunication and TMIS

3.1 Telecommunication:

3.1.1 General:

          This sub-component original included the transmission network, data telecommunication
network, satellite communication network, microwave transmission network and conference telephone
network. Due to separate of railways communication industry from MOR, data telecommunication
network project has been cancelled. Through the construction and commissioning of these networks,
the performance of the telecommunication network of China Railways was significantly improved. It
now meets the needs of a modem railway system and is reliable enough to meet the needs of modem
railway dispatching, passenger ticket reservation system, TMIS (Traffic Management Information
System).

3.1.2 China Railways Communication Network Study

(1)Background to the project

In support of China's economic reform policies and using the support offered by the World Bank, the
Chinese Ministry of Railways has been making great efforts to improve railway communication network
over the last decade. By the end of 2003, the total length of the optical cables was over 68, 000
kilometers. This provided digitized connections from the Ministry of Railway to all the railway bureaus
and digitized connections between the railway bureaus and almost 100% of the railway subsections
with the total number of digital switches can provide more than one million subscribers (lines). The
second phase of the packet-digital switching network covering all14-railway bureaus has been put into
operation. The first video-conferencing facilities have been constructed using optical and satellite
connections. The total funded by The world Bank was more near U$D.30 million.



                                                  - 17 -

By end of 2003, The long distance automation rate increased from 95.64% in 1994 to 98.07% in 2003;
Internal effective call completion rate can be reached at 99.90%; Average duration of fault reduced
from 1.38 hours to 1.35 hours.

3.2 TMIS:

3.2.1 Execution of project

(1) TMIS Central Processing System

The procurement of TMIS central processing system financed by Sixth Railway Loan started in 1994.
For the seventh railway project, actual investment was about U$D 44 million.

The mainly equipments procured in 3 lots. The first lot was published the procurement notice in the
newspaper in 1998, which included mini-computer systems, ups systems that ware used in local
stations and leader departments for MOR headquarter and administration or sub-administration level.

The contract of IBM mainframe computer was signed in 2000 as second lot. The last lot, which
focused on software upgrade financed by loan saving in 2003. Up to now, all the systems run properly.

  History progress for TMIS development
3.2.1.1. From 1994-2001--- Setting up TMIS framework
  Major equipments financed by The World Bank Loan.
(a)    The fast phase of the project for the dispatching system for the Ministry and Bureau was put into
operation in July 2000. Manual operations have been stopped totally after adopting the new system.
(b)    The automatic recognition system for wagon number began tests on a trial basis on March
1,2001 this system is an important tool for tracking freight wagons. At present, the number of freight
wagon, the locomotive number, the freight wagon number and other information can be identified and
confirmed in real time at the request of the owning administration and records are kept in the central
data base of TMIS.
(c)    The container tracking system was put into operation fully on March 1, 2001. This system
provides real time information about the location of each container. This not only raises the efficiency
of management of the containers, but also allows the owners of cargo to check the location of their
shipments.
(d)    The actual report information system has been fully implemented. This system has fully replaced
the old telecommunication sending and receiving system. In most branch bureaus, the effective
reporting rate is 100%.
(e)    The application of ticket & freight waybill analysis system. Currently, this system provides a
information data base for the Ministry, the railway administration and sub railway administration. When
fully developed this system provide information a full set of transport and finance statistics for each
administration.

3.2.1.1. From 2001---2004 --- Improving TMIS system
    Almost sub-system has been gotten improving and mainly equipments for both hardware and
software funded by The World Bank Loan.

3.2.4 Conclusions:
By the end of 2004, MOR has completed the construction of TMIS system, and the TMIS components
in the Railway VII project have been implemented satisfactorily. Through competitive bidding, MOR got
low priced goods. Furthermore, MOR imported advanced technologies, trained many railway computer
skilled staff, and improved the whole level of our technological teams.




                                                   - 18 -

 5. TA studies
 5.1 There ware 7 studies completed, which included Framework on Railway Law, PSO, Improving
 productivity, RIS, TMIS oversea tour and New Diesel engine design. Total investment was more than
 U$D 3 million.
 All the companies we selected have rich experiences on this aspects, MOR thought the studies
 reached the target for those studies.

 5.2 Conclusion
 MOR pays much attention on progress on policy and reform and will continue to cooperate with Bank in
 the future.

 6. Additional Information
  None to add

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None to add




                                              - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                              Baseline 1993    Target 2000          Actual/Latest
                 Indicator/Matrix              1995 PAD         1995 PAD              Estimates
Passenger train pairs, Wuhan-Puqi Section          19               29                     39
Passenger train pairs, Zhuzhou-Hengyang
Section                                            29               42                     45
Freight tkm (million)                           63,249           101,253                53,879
Passenger-km (millions)                         28,669            40,706                46,985
Average freight train speed (km/hr)            54.4-52.7          59-57.9                44.95
Average passenger train speed (km/hr)          68.6-68.4         72.1-71.7               88.15

Yuan operating expenses per thousand ctkm         12.7            10.56                   509
Rem: "Yuan Operating Expenses" was 1994 estimates (vs. 1993 actuals), so it is difficult to rely on
this performance indicator



Indicators for telecommunications system
                     Indicator               1993 actual 2000 target 2000 actual 2003 actual
Transit switch capacity                       15,479      312,500      716,784         1,047,246
Local switch capacity (000 lines)               450        1,250        6,288             11,179
Connected subscribers (000)                     325        1,062        1,358             6,603
OF transmission system 8 Mb/s (km)             1,150       6,200       11,919             17,538
OF transmission system 140 Mb/s (km)           2,535       7,500       45,836             68,002
Satellite earth stations                         0           68            64               63
Mobile satellite earth stations                  0           12             1                1
Data telecom network nodes                       6           25            22               22
Data telecom network subnodes                   42           70            40               40
Data telecom Intel PAD                          218         600           431               431
Data telecom network maintenance centres         3           3              2                2
Conference network locations                     0           70            48               48

Long distance automation (%)                    10           60          95.6              98.1
Internal effective call completion rate (%)    98.81         99            99              99.9
Speech satisfaction degree (%)                  98.2         99            98              98.5
Faults/100 DELs/Month                           60           40            60               50
Average duration of faults                    1.38 hr      1.40 hr     1.38 h             1.35h

Staff/1000 DELs                                 175          80            90               60
Staff/100 km cable                              132         101           110               90
Number of staff                                 56,253     64,884      60,315             60,700




                                              - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                                 US$ million       US$ million
Expanding corridor capacity                                         826.80             1160.02                 1.3
Modernizing information systems                                     199.60              202.86                1.02
Upgrading telecommunications                                        131.90              138.83                1.05
Enhancing environmental protection                                    6.70                2.03                 0.3
Technical assistance/studies                                          7.40                2.98                 0.4

Total Baseline Cost                                               1172.40              1506.72
                           Total Project Costs                    1172.40              1506.72
                   Total Financing Required                       1172.40              1506.72


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB                NCB                   2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                              0.00              336.90           0.00               0.00           336.90
                                     (0.00)             (9.50)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (9.50)
2. Goods                             827.30              0.00            0.00               0.00           827.30
                                    (353.30)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)         (353.30)
3. Services                           0.00               0.00            8.20               0.00            8.20
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (8.20)            (0.00)          (8.20)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00            0.00               0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00            0.00               0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00            0.00               0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                             827.30             336.90           8.20               0.00           1172.40
                                    (353.30)            (9.50)           (8.20)            (0.00)         (371.00)
Project Costs used for restructured project (in January 13, 1999 restructuring proposal)

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/ Latest Estimates) (US$ million equivalent)
   Expenditure              ICB               NCB              Others      Local Financing       Total Costs
     Category                                                                        3


 Works                        -               6.06                -             527.42             533.48
 Goods                     255.81                -               .97            703.71             960.49
 Services                     -                  -              2.98              5.94              8.92
 Miscellaneous                -                  -                -               3.83              3.83
 Total                     255.81             6.06              3.95           1,240.90           1,506.72

  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.



                                                     - 21 -

     1/


     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

       3/ Includes portion of the project financed locally by the borrower. Amounts for ICB, NCB and Others refer to Bank
       Loan only



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.        CoF.        Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Expanding Corridor             249.02        642.66       0.00        187.02      973.00      0.00       75.1     151.4      0.0
Capacity
Modernizing Information         38.90        160.70       0.00        44.07       158.79      0.00       113.3     98.8      0.0
Systems
Upgrading                       39.70        92.20        0.00        19.86       118.96      0.00       50.0     129.0      0.0
Telecommunications
Enhancing Environmental         4.40          0.00        0.00         2.03        0.00       0.00       46.1      0.0       0.0
protection
Technical                       7.20          0.00        0.00         2.98        0.00       0.00       41.4      0.0       0.0
assistance/studies

   Expanding Corridor Capacity appraisal estimates used from restructured project (1999). For all other
   components, the 1995 initial appraisal estimates were used (data not available in the 1999 restructuring
   proposal)
   CoF.: Co-Financing from donors or other multilateral financial institutions

   Project Financing and Expenditure (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Actual                   Planned                  Variance
     Project financing
           IBRD loan                                           268,156                    281,000                  (12,844)
           Railway Construction Fund                           503,014                    368,700                  134,314
           State Development Bank Loan                         350,242                    361,450                  (11,208)
           Other resources                                     385,307                    161,250                  224,057
     Total financing                                          1,506,718                  1,172,400                 334,318

     Project expenditure
           Equipment                                           960,488                    827,300                  133,188
           Civil Works                                         533,475                    336,900                  196,575
           Consultants and training                              8,924                     8,200                      724
           Others                                                3,830                       0                       3,830
     Total expenditure                                        1,506,718                  1,172,400                 334,318

     Expenditures include physical and price contingencies
     Planned Costs as stated in the 1999 Restructuring Document




                                                            - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

  Introduction

  This Annex presents the economic reevaluation of the component of the Seventh China Railway
  project covering the electrification and modernization of 890 km of the
  double-track Wuhan-Guangzhou line 154 km between Hengyang and Chenzhou was previously
  electrified.

  Given the very dense traffic volumes on the project line, the primary benefit of electrification is the
  reduced operating costs possible through electrification, principally through reductions in traction
  energy and locomotive maintenance costs. Further benefits come from the increased capacity
  created by the increased hauling power and (relatively modest) speed improvements possible with
  electric traction.

  The original 1994 evaluation assumed that the upgraded line would be principally used by passenger
  traffic and that, without the project, freight traffic would be increasingly diverted to the parallel
  Beijing-Kowloon line, which at that stage was under construction but which would still need some
  additional capacity if the electrification did not proceed.

  By the time of the loan restructuring in 1999, the Beijing-Kowloon line had been completed as a
  double-track line (in 1997) and its capacity was thus not an issue. However, the 1999 evaluation
  then assumed that the Beijing-Guangzhou line would be the primary freight line and that passenger
  traffic that could not be accommodated on the project line would be diverted, partly to the
  Beijing-Kowloon line but principally to road, and that this latter diversion would require parallel road
  capacity to be constructed.

  Whilst this might have been partially true for local traffic, the method by which it was implemented
  within the evaluation, with the assumption of immediate major road construction that would be
  avoided if the rail project proceeded, was unrealistic in hindsight. Planning for the parallel
  Wuhan-Changsha-Guangzhou highway, one of the key links in the national network, was already
  well-advanced at that time and in the event its construction was completed before that of the parallel
  rail project.

  The ICR re-evaluation has therefore adopted a different approach which concentrates on the
  operating cost savings from electrification and in which diverted traffic in the `without-project' case
  (which would be largely comparatively short-distance traffic) is assumed to require additional road
  capacity (which would typically be local improvements, such as widening, to existing roads) to be
  constructed at the time of its diversion. In addition, the PAD evaluation appears to have been based
  using `without-project' traffic forecasts which include a significant volume of road traffic which has
  been directly generated by the assumed expressway. The costs and benefits associated with this
  traffic should not be linked to the rail electrification and it has been removed from the ICR
  evaluation. Finally, the ICR evaluation has also reviewed the treatment of a number of
  complementary costs; the capital cost of the electricity generating capacity, for example, does not
  need to be specifically identified as its cost is included in the price paid for electricity and the cost of
  catenary maintenance should be included as an operating cost.

  The reevaluation concludes that, based on a discount rate of 12 percent, the net present value (NPV)
  for the project is RMB 254 million and the economic rate of return (EIRR) is equal to 12.4 percent for
  the base re-evaluation - considerably below the 25.8% percent figure reported in the PAD (1999
  update). Alternative assumptions on labour costs and passenger time savings increase the EIRR to a
  range between 13.0 and 15.9 per cent.




                                                     - 23 -

Although the re-evaluation generates a lower figure than originally derived, it should be interpreted
taking into account the particular circumstances of the Chinese Railways. The project cost, at about
$1.3 million per route-mile, is expensive for a pure electrification project and a large number of other
improvements were undoubtedly made at the same time, not surprisingly given the rare opportunity
the project presented to undertake major works on a very heavily trafficked line. The evaluation
addresses the benefits of electrification per se and in doing so has attempted to isolate the
electrification-related costs (Table 5) and remove the cost of major works which are only distantly
related to electrification. An example of such an exclusion is the new viaduct at Changsha, which
provides an elevated approach to the town and whose benefits include much reduced urban
severance, together with substantial urban development opportunities. In the absence of a
comprehensive investigation, this adjustment to the capital cost has been conservative and a more
detailed assessment would almost certainly make further reductions in the proportion of the project
capital cost that should be included in the evaluation.

The evaluation has also understated the long-term operating and capacity benefits generated by
electrification, because of the current exchange rate of the Chinese RMB. The capital goods
associated with the project have largely been acquired at world prices. However, the benefits, such
as those derived from reduced locomotive maintenance costs, are at Chinese prices; Chinese
electric locomotives cost around $1 million each at the present rate of exchange compared to world
prices of $2-3 million, and the annual maintenance savings (which can typically be expressed as a
percentage of capital cost) are correspondingly much lower than would normally be expected.

Traffic Forecasts

The changing roles over the project preparation and implementation period reflect the sharp growth
in passenger traffic within the corridor compared to freight. Since 1990, passenger traffic in the
combined Beijing-Guangzhou/Beijing- Kowloon corridors has grown at 8.1% p.a., compared to a
national average of 4.8%p.a., whilst freight traffic has grown at only 1.6% p.a. compared to a
national average of 3.8% p.a.

At the time of project preparation in 1995, it was assumed that the growth in freight and passenger
traffic would be comparable with each other, and this assumption was maintained at the restructuring
appraisal in 1999. In practice, the rate of freight growth has been sluggish, and rather slower than for
the country as a whole, whilst that of passenger traffic has been strong and rather faster than for the
country as a whole.

Despite the changes in the pattern of growth, the project corridor is currently running close to
capacity, with the Beijing - Kowloon corridor accommodating any overspill that is not suppressed or
diverted to road. There is no reason to suppose that this situation is going to change significantly in
the near-medium term. For simplicity, the re-evaluation assumes that, with the project, freight traffic
on the project corridor continues to grow at 1.5% p.a. indefinitely, with passenger demand growing at
5% p.a. to 2010 and 3% p.a. thereafter.




                                                 - 24 -

               Passenger traffic on Beijing-Guangzhou-Kowloon Line


              140,000

              120,000

              100,000

               80,000

               60,000
Pass-Km
               40,000

               20,000

                  -


                           1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003

                Beijing - Guangzhou                           Beijing - Kowloon                                 Total Pass-km



                  Freight traffic on Beijing-Guangzhou-Kowloon Line


               250,000


               200,000


               150,000
       t-km

           Net 100,000


                50,000


                    -


                               1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003

                  Beijing - Guangzhou                              Beijing - Kowloon                                 Total Net tkm




                                                               - 25 -

                  Table 1 Traffic growth in main north-south corridors 1990-2003.
                              (all traffic figures in millions of traffic units)

                    Beijing - Guangzhou               Beijing - Kowloon                 Total
                   Pass-km          Net tkm        Pass-km        Net tkm       Pass-km      Net tkm
      1990          43117           156350                                      43117        156350
      1991          49293           163378                                      49293        163378
      1992          56484           172027                                      56484        172027
      1993          63151           176053                                      63151        176053
      1994          65121           185002                                      65121        185002
      1995          64650           188373                                      64650        188373
      1996          57032           182298                                      57032        182298
      1997          61231           160726          3137           10392        64368        171118
      1998          64173           139899          12546          41569        76719        181468
      1999          71012           123902          15141          53150        86153        177052
      2000          80659           124793          19128          54565        99787        179358
      2001          79844           131658          22693          58258        102537       189916
      2002          88717           131196          33028          61919        121745       193115
      2003          86203           133799          32849          57358        119052       191157
Growth rate                                                                      8.1%        1.6%
Source : China Statistical Yearbooks

Table 2 compares the actual growth rates experienced with those assumed in the evaluations.

            Table 2 Forecast and actual growth rates - north-south corridors (% p.a.)

                                                  Passenger                          Freight
Actual
1990-1994                                            10.9                             4.3
1995-2003                                             6.9                             3.6
1999-2003                                             9.2                             1.0

Original appraisal
1995-2003                                             5.5                             6.3
2005 on                                               0.0                             0.0
Restructuring appraisal
1999-2003                                             5.9                             6.2
2009 on                                               0.0                             0.0

Direct Project Costs

The total direct outlays of the electrification and modernization project amounted to RMB 9.605
billion (Table 3). Direct project costs on an economic basis were derived from the financial costs by
shadow pricing the labor component of local costs. 11 percent of local costs have been classified as
labor expenses, based on the proportion in the parallel Beijing-Zhenzhou project in Railways VI. This
amount (RMB 875 million) was shadow priced at a rate of 1.6 as in the SAR.




                                                  - 26 -

              TABLE 3: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs (RMB million)

                                               Local              Foreign                Total
  Financial (current)                         7956                1649                   9605
  Economic (2003 prices)                      8703                1702                  10405

  The adjusted local costs and foreign outlays were converted into constant 2003 RMB using the
  annual Gross Domestic and Imports Costs deflators respectively, to give the total economic direct
  costs of the project (RMB 2003) as 10.405 billion.

  The re-evaluation concentrated on the benefits associated with electrification as these can be
  specifically identified. However, a substantial share of the project expenditure was related to
  non-electrification components. About 35% was associated with civil works whose benefits have not
  been included in the evaluation and there were other components related to items such as track
  machinery and buildings. There were also elements, such as new track, which are essentially of a
  replacement nature rather than upgrading the infrastructure and hence would be incurred in a
  `without-project' case, although maybe not at this precise time. Table 4 summarises the various
  functional elements of the project and gives the share of each that has been included in the
  re-evaluation.

              TABLE 4: Expenditure included in economic evaluation ($US 000 current)

        Item               Actual cost      Cost included     Comment
Survey and design             7,577             7,577
Civil works
Land                         19,483             4,871         25% - remainder taken as diversions
Subgrade                     32,568             16,284        50% - remainder taken as diversions
Bridges                      22,944             11,472        50%
Tunnels                       7,864             7,864         Assumed all lowering
Buildings                    37,495             18,748        Share for substations etc
Track                        39,681             9,920         25% - 50% of remainder taken as
                                                           diversions; replacement given 50% credit
                                                           for cascading
Other                       367,379               -           Assumed earthworks
Subtotal                    527,415             76,736
Equipment
Communications               86,932             86,932        100%
Signalling                  132,176            118,958        10% allowance for cascading
Power supply                169,684            169,684        100%
Electrification             112,227            112,277        100%
Track maintenance            48,380               -           Independent of electrification
Other                        75,633             37,816        Assumed 50%
Subtotal                    625,031            525,667
Total                      1,160,024           602,403

  The re-evaluation of electrification thus includes 51% of the expenditure associated with the project,
  after allowance for cascading and unevaluated benefits. For simplicity, this proportion of 51% has
  been applied equally to all years, although in practice it is more concentrated towards the later years
  of the project when the signalling and electrification equipment was purchased. Because of the long
  life of many of the infrastructure works, a residual value of 20% of the capital expenditure has been
  included at the end of the evaluation period.




                                                  - 27 -

Complementary Costs
Although the PAD evaluation included a number of items as complementary investments, these
have been excluded from the re-evaluation. As the line is not a new project but an upgrade of an
existing line under operation, there will only be a marginal difference in carriage and wagon
requirements as a result of avoiding traffic being diverted to other routes and modes and, although
new electric locomotives were purchased, these enabled the existing diesel locomotives fleet to be
cascaded to other routes, and the consequent deferral of replacement diesel locomotives. The
differential cost of rollingstock capital in this type of project is most realistically measured through
including annualized capital costs and this approach has been adopted in this case. No
complementary costs for the incremental electrical generating capacity needed by the change from
diesel power to electric traction have been included as this is already included in the cost of
electricity embedded in the differential train operating costs supplied by MOR. The additional annual
operating cost of catenary maintenance is not a complementary investment and has instead been
treated as part of the differential operating costs.

Project Benefits
There are two groups of benefits of the project. All traffic hauled on the line now uses electric traction
and so benefits from the reduced operating costs per unit of traffic. These arise from:
l   Reduced energy costs per unit of traffic
l   Lower locomotive maintenance costs - the maintenance cost of electric locomotives is typically
    about 40-50% that of corresponding diesel locomotives
l   An increase in the tractive effort with electric locomotives; CR have exploited this by reducing
    sectional running times (for fixed-consist trains such as passengers) and by increasing the
    average load for freight trains. This increase in running speed reduces operating costs slightly
    but also provides additional capacity in the corridor.
l   Against this, there is the cost of maintaining the electrical infrastructure (catenary, substations
    etc)

The second group of benefits is associated with the traffic which is now able to use the additional
capacity. Some of this would otherwise be diverted to other routes, primarily the Beijing-Kowloon
corridor and the remainder (principally local passenger traffic) would not be able to travel by rail and
would either be forced onto other forms of transport or would not be able to travel at all. For both
groups, the benefits of the project are the reduction in operating cost, and in user disbenefit, of now
being able to travel by a more direct route. However, these arise through quite different mechanisms:
l   Traffic which is diverted to another rail route will incur additional rail operating costs and (at least
    in the case of passengers) user disbenefit (largely in the form of increased travel time)
l   Traffic which is forced onto other modes, or cannot travel at all, will incur additional operating
    costs if it travels, assumed to be by road. It will also experience a change in user benefits as it is
    now making a completely different type of trip; this change may be positive or may be negative
    (e.g. the substitute road trip, which will probably be more expensive, may be faster, more
    frequent and not require as much time to get to and from the rail network). Some traffic will
    decide the new arrangements are too hard and not travel at all. In addition, if the road network is
    approaching congestion, any traffic which does travel by road is likely to impose costs on other
    road users.

The incidence of these various costs and benefits depends on the approach that the railway would
have adopted in the absence of the project. Based on the growth patterns in the corridor over the
past decade, the re-evaluation assumes that all the freight that can economically transfer to the
Beijing-Kowloon corridor has done so and that, as it continues to slowly grow, passenger traffic is
slowly squeezed from the corridor. 50% is assumed to longer-distance traffic that is transferable to
the parallel (longer) corridor; the remaining 50% is assumed to be shorter-distance traffic that is
forced onto road or suppressed. For the purposes of evaluation, 10% of the 50% that diverts from rail
is assumed to be suppressed.




                                                    - 28 -

As the project corridor is already operating close to capacity, this process will occur in both the
`with-project' and `without-project' cases, but it will be less and slower to develop in the `with-project `
case.

The evaluation of the costs and user disbenefits associated with the traffic diverted to the parallel rail
corridor is straightforward; it assumes the average penalty is 50% of the additional distance and time
involved (as those diverting will presumably be those for whom it poses the least problems). For
those that divert to road or are suppressed, the costs and benefits are estimated using the
`rule-of-a-half' This is a standard technique in project evaluation. In this case, it also requires an
assumption on the price elasticity of demand, which has been taken as -0.5.. Those transferring to
road are assumed to require additional road capacity to be created, by small-scale road works, to
preserve the level of service for other road users.

Operating Cost Benefits to Traffic Remaining in Project Corridor

The operational benefits of converting from diesel to electric traction are largely associated with
energy savings and locomotive maintenance costs, offset to a limited extent by changes in the
capital costs of electric as opposed to diesel locomotives. In theory, there are also theoretically some
small benefits in rollingstock utilisation because of the increase in operating speed but this is
comparatively small (average commercial speed of passenger and freight trains has increased by
16% and 5% respectively because of electrification) and this element has been omitted from the
evaluation.

The original evaluation used unit costs of electric and diesel traction supplied by MOR. These were
derived in 1994 and have since been updated using various cost indices. However, the scope of
these costs is unclear, for example the extent to which they include labor overheads and the extent
to which they include on-train crew. Because of these uncertainties, the long period since they were
first calculated, and the difficulty in obtaining updated estimates, the re-evaluation has derived costs
from first principles, using realistic engineering-based unit costs. Whilst these are not directly derived
from actual expenditures, they are almost certainly accurate to +/- 25% and are also more suitable
for adjustment for future movements in relative energy costs.

Data supplied by Guangzhou, which has had electric locos operating on part of the corridor for some
years shows that the cost of maintaining electric locomotives is 35-40% that of diesels; a 60% saving
has been adopted for evaluation purposes, typical of the experience on other railways. The average
annual cost of electric locomotive maintenance has been estimated as 3.3% of the capital cost of
RMB 9 million; taking a utilisation of 180,000 km p.a. (4500 hours @ 40 km/hr) gives a maintenance
cost per km for electric locomotives of about RMB 2/km and for diesels of about RMB 5/km. For
comparison, typical costs in North America for diesel locomotives are about $US1/km.

The energy savings are based on an oil price of RMB 3800/tonne; this is based on the 2002 price of
RMB 2900/tonne, updated to allow for the subsequent increase inn the price of crude oil to
$US30/barrel; this is equivalent to RMB 3.46/litre. The economic price of electricity is taken as RMB
0.50 per kWh. Specific fuel consumption in the corridor is taken to be 3.0 l/000 gtk and 10.2
kWh/000 gtk, using typical rates from other railways with similar topography.

The difference in the capital cost of the locomotives is based on their relative prices, (with electric
locomotives ranging from 7% (passenger) to 45% (freight) more expensive than diesel), lives (with
electric 20% longer than diesel) and utilisations (with electric 10% more than diesel for any given
task).In addition, the cost of electric freight haulage is adjusted to reflect the 17% increase in
maximum trailing load (from 3000 tonnes to 3500 tonnes) which has been achieved in the corridor.
Using a real 6% cost of capital, electric locomotives on passenger trains are slightly more cheaper
(by RMB 0.37 per loco-km) whilst those used for freight, when adjusted for the increase in trailing
load are slightly more expensive by RMB 0.25 per loco-km.




                                                  - 29 -

Because the system used by MOR to derive operating cost savings excludes the maintenance of the
electrical catenary, the SAR included an annual amount of RMB 48.9 million as a complementary
cost. This was based on a unit cost of RMB 70,000 per route-mile In 1992 prices, as quoted in
Working Paper 25; in the 1999 evaluation it was quoted at RMB 70,000 per route-km and indexed to
RMB 90,000 per route-km.. This seems a large figure; its origin is unknown but it may include the
depreciation of the equipment. By contrast, Guangzhou quoted a figure of RMB 4-7,000 per
track-km; this is almost certainly just routine maintenance as most of the catenary is relatively new,
and probably also excludes the cost of the substations. Based on experience elsewhere, adjusted to
Chinese prices, a 2003 cost of RMB 20,000 per track-km has been used.

Table 5 summarise the estimated operating cost benefits in 2003.

                           Table 5 Estimated operating cost benefits 2003

                                      Unit                   Passenger                  Freight
Unit cost savings
Loco maintenance                    Loco-km                    1.59                      2.30
Loco capital                        Loco-km                    0.37                      -0.24
Fuel                                000 gtkm                   5.29                      5.29

Annual saving per pair of          RMB 000
trains
Loco maintenance                                               1034                      1494
Loco capital                                                    243                      -159
Fuel                                                           3097                      9637
Total                                                          4373                     10972

Number of pairs                                                  56                        50
(average)
Annual saving (2003)               RMB mill                     245                       549
The total estimated benefits are RMB 794 million p.a.

Penalties incurred by diverted traffic

The maximum throughput on the new line occurs during Spring Festival, when CR have operated
130 pairs of passenger trains and 11 pairs of freight trains on the section between Hengyang and
Chenzhou, compared to their normal pattern of 63 pairs of passenger trains and 50 pairs of freight
trains. This indicates:
l   A practical capacity of the new section of 148 pairs of passenger trains
l   A freight train being equivalent to 1.7 passenger trains in terms of its use of capacity (close to
    the relative speeds of 130 km/hr for passenger and 70-80 km/hr for freight)
l   A practical utilisation of 88% of the theoretical maximum capacity of 168 pairs/day (21 hours
    after allowance for maintenance blocks at 7.5 minutes headway)

During the 1990's, the capacity of the project corridor was about 140 pairs of trains. The large
volumes handled at that time could only be done by having heavily-loaded passenger trains and by
having as little difference as possible between their operating speeds and those of the freight trains.
However, this strategy has proved no longer tenable in the face of competition and initiatives such as
raising the speed of passenger trains and instituting reliable ovemight service between major cities
have all tended to increase the capacity required per passenger-kilometre.




                                                - 30 -

The net effect is that the project created around ten extra pairs of train paths and these permit the
corresponding number of passengers to travel in the corridor compared to the `without-project' case.
Those who would have been diverted by rail were given a benefit of RMB 11.30 per passenger,
reflecting an average additional distance per passenger of 144 km, at an average cost of RMB 0.08
per passenger-km. Those who would have to suppress or divert to road in the `Without-project' case
get rather larger benefits, at around 2-3 fen per pkm. The incremental cost of road construction to
handle the passengers diverted to road, is estimated at RMB 370 million; this cost is only incurred
once, in the first year of diversion.

Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis

For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 32-year period covering the
construction period of 1996-2003 and benefits for the 25 years from 2004 to 2028. to derive
estimates of the net present value (at a discount rate of 12%) and the economic internal rate of
return (EIRR). As reported in Table 7, the estimated NPV (discounted to 2003) is RMB 254 million
and the EIRR is 12.4 percent.

Adjustments were made in six of the base case assumptions to test the sensitivity of these results
(Table 6).

                                    Table 6 Estimated EIRR and NPV

                                                    EIRR                                 NPV
                                                                                      (RMB mill)
Base Case                                            12.4                                 254
Sensitivity tests
  Increase share of capex                             8.6                                -3238
included to 75%
  Reduce fuel savings by 33%                          9.3                                -1730
  No growth                                          11.2                                 -560
  No shadow pricing of labor                         13.0                                 642
  Time savings included at                           14.7                                1829
average values
  Time savings included at actual                    15.9                                2898
values

The base case includes 51% of the capital expenditure attributed to the project. Taking an upper limit
of what might be attributed as about 75%, the NPV falls to RMB -3.2 billion and the EIRR declines to
8.6 percent.

The largest element of operating cost savings is fuel savings. If world diesel fuel prices fall, and the
fuel saving from electrification falls by 33%, the NPV falls to RMB -1.7 billion and the EIRR to 9.3
percent.

The evaluation has benefits both from the existing traffic and from future traffic growth which can, wit
the project, be handled by rail in this corridor. If there is no growth in traffic, the benefits only accrue
to the existing traffic. In this case, the NPV falls to Yuna -560 million and the EIRR to 11.2 per cent.

The original PAD evaluation shadow-priced labor using a factor of 1.6; this adjustment seems
unjustified given the current strength of the Chinese economy, especially in the region of the project,
and removing this adjustment increases the EIRR to 13.0 percent.




                                                  - 31 -

Although the base case attributed all time savings to increases in the maximum line speed created
by the non-electrification works, which would be independent of traction type, in practice some
savings would arise from the faster acceleration of electric rather than diesel locomotives. Allowing
one-third of the passenger time savings to be due to electrification increases the EIRR to 14.7
percent; this is based on an assumed mix of 80% leisure passengers and 20% business. The
valuation of time savings is generally directly related to income level; the initial sensitivity test
assumed that train passengers have the average incomes for the corridor; however, in practice many
passengers will be from the middle-income levels and their value of time will accordingly be higher
than the average; assuming their incomes to be twice the average increases the EIRR further to 15.9
percent.

These results are all much lower than those estimated at appraisal. However, the project is a very
large investment in one of the most important rail corridors in China and the benefits will endure for
much, if not all, of the current century. The EIRR is comparable to the rates of return historically
earned by similar major projects and almost certainly are closer to the true rate of return than the
very high rate estimated at appraisal.

                     Table 7 Corridor traffic forecasts - with and without project
                                   Without project                            With project
                            Passenger            Freight            Passenger                Freight
                           Pkm (mill)          Ntkm (mill)          Pkm (mill)            Ntkm (mill)
        2001                 39412                52770               39412                   52770
        2002                 43032                53321               43032                   53321
        2003                 46985                53879               46985                   53879
        2004                 45905                54687               49334                   54687
        2005                 44809                55507               48238                   55507
        2006                 43696                56340               47125                   56340
        2007                 42567                57185               45996                   57185
        2008                 41421                58043               44850                   58043
        2009                 40257                58914               43686                   58914
        2010                 39076                59797               42505                   59797
        2011                 37878                60694               41307                   60694
        2012                 36661                61605               40090                   61605
        2013                 35426                62529               38855                   62529
        2014                 34173                63467               37602                   63467
        2015                 32901                64419               36330                   64419
        2016                 31609                65385               35039                   65385
        2017                 30299                66366               33728                   66366
        2018                 28968                67361               32398                   67361
        2019                 27618                68372               31047                   68372
        2020                 26248                69397               29677                   69397
        2021                 24857                70438               28286                   70438
        2022                 23445                71495               26874                   71495
        2023                 22012                72567               25441                   72567
        2024                 20557                73656               23986                   73656
        2025                 19081                74761               22510                   74761
        2026                 17582                75882               21011                   75882
        2027                 16061                77020               19490                   77020
        2028                 14517                78175               17946                   78175


                                                - 32 -

       Table 8 Corridor Economic Rate of Return Calculation (RMB 2003 million)

             Capacity-related benefits          Operating cost-related benefits Capital Total
      Rail     Road Suppress Road     Subtotal Passenge Freight Power Subtotal expend-
     diversio diversio ed     capacity            r            supply-r         iture
        n        n            avoided                           elated
1996                                                                              5      -5
1997                                                                             27     -27
1998                                                                             647    -647
1999                                                                            1342   -1342
2000                                                                            1379   -1379
2001                                                                             930    -930
2002                                                                             748    -748
2003                                            245      549     -18     798     184    591
2004   18        5      1      166     190      239      557     -18     992     44     925
2005   18       13      3        0      34      234      565     -18     839            816
2006   18       20      5        0      43      228      574     -18     852            827
2007   18       26      6        0      51      222      582     -18     863            838
2008   18       31      8        0      57      216      591     -18     873            847
2009   18       36      9        0      63      210      600     -18     882            856
2010   18       40     10        0      68      204      609     -18     891            864
2011   18       43     11        0      72      197      618     -18     898            870
2012   18       45     11        0      75      191      627     -18     905            876
2013   18       48     12        0      78      185      637     -18     912            882
2014   18       50     12        0      81      178      646     -18     918            888
2015   18       52     13        0      83      171      656     -18     925            894
2016   18       54     13        0      86      165      666     -18     931            899
2017   18       56     14        0      88      158      676     -18     937            905
2018   18       57     14        0      90      151      686     -18     944            910
2019   18       59     15        0      92      144      696     -18     950            915
2020   18       60     15        0      94      137      707     -18     956            920
2021   18       62     15        0      95      130      717     -18     962            925
2022   18       63     16        0      97      122      728     -18     967            930
2023   18       64     16        0      98      115      739     -18     973            935
2024   18       65     16        0     100      107      750     -18     979            940
2025   18       66     17        0     101       99      761     -18     985            945
2026   18       67     17        0     102       92      773     -18     991            950
2027   18       68     17        0     104       84      784     -18     997            954
2028   18       69     17        0     105       76      796     -18     1002   -1061   2021




                                        - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/15/1993              11     TM, REn(2), IS, SaS, RS(2),
                                             LS(2), ComS, FA;
              09/20/1993              12     TM, RS(2), Mec S, FA(2), REn,
                                             IS, LS(3), SaS;
              03/16/1994              20     TM, RS(2), FA(3), RRS, LS(2),
                                             REn(3), IS, LS(3), ES(2), REc,
                                             SS;
              06/28/2004              15     TM, FA(3), RS(2), ResS, TeleS,
                                             LS(2), REn, IS(2), ES, REc;

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/18/1994              14     TM, RS(2), FA(3), TeleS,
                                             LS(2), REn, IS, ResS, REc,
                                             ES;

 Supervision
              08/17/1995                1    TM;                                 HS             HS
              11/19/1995                3    TM, TS, REn;                        S               S
              03/23/1996                4    TM, REc, TS, REn;                   S               S
              06/28/1996                5    TM, Tele.S, REc, TS, REn;           S               S
              11/04/1996                2    ResS. REn;                          S               S
              01/06/1997                2    TM, REc;                            S               S
              04/22/1997                1    REn;                                S               S
              05/27/1997                2    TM, REc;                            U               U
              10/19/1997                6    TM, RRS, TS, REc, ResS, SM;         U               U
              04/06/1998               12    TM, REc, ResS, PS(2), REn, EE,      U               U
                                             TS, RS(3), TA ;
              09/23/1998                1    Tele.S                              U               U
              11/09/1998               10    TM, RS, SS, PS(2), FMS(2), ES,      S               S
                                             ResS, REc;
              03/31/1999                1    TM;                                 S               S
              05/09/1999                1    ES;                                 S               S
              09/24/1999                5    TM, RRS, RS, FMS, Tele.S;           S               S
              04/28/2000                2    REn, RS ;                           S               S
              12/18/2000                4    TM, REn, RS, TA ;                   S               S
              06/25/2001                1    ES;                                 S               S
              08/24/2001                1    REn;                                S               S
              11/28/2001                3    TM, ResS, SS;                       S               S
              03/26/2002                3    TM, RS, REn;                        S               S
              11/22/2002                3    TM, REn, ResS;                      S               S
              06/02/2003                2    TM, REn;                            S               S
              10/13/2003                3    TM, TS, REn;                        S               S
              06/02/2004                3    TM, ES, REn;                        S               S

 ICR



                                              - 34 -

               08/26/2004                 5      TM, TS(2), REn, REc;               S             S
               11/05/2004                 3      TS, REn, REc                       S             S

ComS=Communication Specialist, ES=Environmental Specialist, FA=Financial Analyst, FMS=Financial
Management Specialist, LS=Logistics Specialist, IS=Information Specialist, PS=Procurement Specialist,
RS=Railway Specialist, REc=Railway Economist, REn=Railway Engineer, ResS=Resettlement
Specialist, RRS=Railway Reform Specialist, SS=Social Scientist, SaS=Safety Specialist, SM=Sector
Manager, TS=Transport Specialist, Tele. S=Telecommunication Specialist, TA=Team Assistant,
TM=Task Manager.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 138                          525.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     70.5                          255.5
  Supervision                              232.9                          876.5
  ICR                                         5.9                          34.9
  Total                                    445.7                        1,687.0




                                                - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China Seventh Railway Project, April 14, 1995.

The World Bank, Proposed Restructuring and Amendment to Loan Agreement, China Seventh Railway
Project, January 13, 1999.

The World Bank, China an Evaluation of World Bank Assistance, OED Advance Copy, 2004

The World Bank, No 1 to No 26 Project Status Reports for the Seventh Railway Project, from 1995 to
2004

The World Bank, Working Papers 7, 13, 24, 25 and 27 for the Seventh Railway Project




                                               - 38 -

- 39 -

