LOAN NUMBER 3897 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  f@Q  ,1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3897 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  ao         , 1995 , between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Company Law" means the Company Law enacted by the Fifth Standing
Committee of the Eighth National People's Congress of the Borrower, on December 29,
1993 and effective as of July 1, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(b)     "MOR" means the Ministry of Railways of the Borrower and any
successor thereto.
(c)    "Special Account" mans the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this
Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred
million Dollars ($400,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly nofy the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period,
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.


﻿-3-
(ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Peried), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
(iv)    "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
London interbank offered rates or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
(c)    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)    Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that
it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MOR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices and with appropriate health,
safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project through MOR in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and take, through MOR, such other actions in respect of the
Project as are set forth in said Schedule 5.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, its railway
operations and the financial condition thereof, as well as separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practics, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section (including those for the Special Account), and the
financial statements in respect of its railway operations (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and statements of
sources and applications of funds) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;


﻿-5-
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
through MOR:
(i)    produce or cause to be produced in respect of MOR's railway
transport operations, for each of its fiscal years, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than the following
percentage of the annual average of the capital expenditures


﻿-6-
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous
fiscal year and the next following fiscal year: (A) for its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1995 and its fiscal year ending on
December 31, 1996: 50%; and (B) for each of its fiscal years
thereafter: 55%;
(ii)   review, not later than June 30 in each of its fiscal years, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to
the Bank, whether the requirements set forth in subparagraph (i)
of this paragraph will be met in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and furnish to the Bank a copy of such
review upon its completion; and
(iii)  if any such review shows that the requirements set forth in
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph would not be met for the fiscal
years covered by such review, promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of railway tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   'The term   "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to railway
transp:rt operations, freight surcharges in  aid  of
construction and net non-operating income; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to railway transport
operations,   including   administration,   adequate
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash
operating charges), and interest and other charges on
debt.
(ii)  The term  "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues attributable to MOR from all sources other than
those related to railway transport operations; and


﻿-7-
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in subparagraph
(ii)(A) of this paragraph.
(iii)  The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred
on account of fixed assets, including expenditures for capital
construction, rolling stock and replacement of major equipment,
related to railway operations.
(iv)  Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, interest and
other charges on debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of paying such interest or
other charges, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
(c)    The provisions of Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement dated
April 15, 1993 between the Borrower and the Bank for a Sixth Railway Project (Loan No.
3581 CHA) are hereby amended to read as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:              Telex:
FINANMIN                           22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (MCI),
64145 (MCI) or
82987 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByC                                 +/    6    1    -
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                       Dollars)            to be Financed
(1) Goods:
(a) Container                  28,000,000)         100% of foreign
transport and                         )         expenditures,
handling                              )         100% of local
equipment                             )         expenditures
)         (ex-factory
)         cost) and 75%
(b) Other goods               361,500,000)         of local expen-
)         ditures for other
)         items procured
)         locally
(2) Consultants'                     5,500,000          100%
services,
training and
study tours
(3) Unallocated                      5,000,000
TOTAL                   400,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) for goods under contracts not
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent each, (b) for services provided under contracts awarded
to consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, (c) for services provided
under contracts awarded to individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each,
and (d) for training and study tours, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (1) rationalizing the
organization, management and operations of the railway subsector so as to improve the
efficiency and quality of the operation of the subsector and (2) expanding and modernizing
the Borrower's railway system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modff'cations thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Policy Reforms
(1)    Carrying out of a program to rationalize the structure of railway
operations, consisting of the: (a) preparation of measures to further enhance the suitability
of the legal and regulatory framework for the governance of railway enterprises in a
market economy; (b) transformation, on a pilot basis, of railway agencies selected by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, into companies pursuant to the Company
Law, and, on the basis of the Borrower's experience in implementing said transformation,
development of a comprehensive strategy for the restructuring of railway operations; and
(c) development of a strategy for debt and equity financing of railway operations.
(2)    Carrying out of a program to develop a suitable system for the setting of
railway tariffs, such system to allow for tariff adjustments based on costs of services
provided, passenger congestion pricing and contract pricing of services.
(3)    Carrying out of a program to improve human resource planning and
management, so as to enhance labor productivity in the railway subsector.
Part B: Investments for Modernization. Expansion and Reform of the Railway System
(1)    Electrification and upgrading of the Wuhan-Guangzhou railway line,
through the construction of 1,050-meter siding lengths, provision of a 25 kilovolt/50 hertz
electricity system, and 110 kilovolt power supply system, upgrading of signaling and
telecommunications systems, reconstruction of bridges and tunnels and upgrading of
maintenance depot shops.
(2)    Modernization of MOR's management information system, integration of
train management information systems and introduction of a pilot railway passenger


﻿- 13 -
reservation system, including the provision of computer hardware and software required
therefor.
(3)    Expansion and modernization of the trunk transmission and data
telecommunications networks of the Borrower's railway through the: (a) extension and
digitalization of the railway's long-distance transmission network; (b) extension of the
railway's data communications network; (c) development of a video conference network;
and (d) development and introduction of a telecommunications network management
system.
(4)    Carrying out of a pilot program to commercialize rail-based container
transport operations and provide land-locked provinces with access to international trade
through the provision of container transport and handling equipment and technical
assistance and computer software required therefor and the leasing to selected companies
of said equipment.
(5)    Carrying out of pilot programs to develop strategies and techniques for the
operation of railway systems in an environmentally sound manner, including provision of
equipment required therefor, said programs to focus on (a) abating noise resulting from
railway operations and operations of factories manufacturing railway equipment, (b)
developing solid waste management strategies for railway stations, (c) developing
techniques for cleaning contaminated soil in freight yards, (d) treating oily wastewater
from locomotive depots, (e) upgrading an anti-epidemic center operated by MOR, (f)
training railway staff in environmental impact assessment techniques, (g) developing a fuel
additive for diesel locomotives to increase combustion and reduce emissions and (h)
developing a strategy to dispose of styrofoam containers.
(6)    Expansion of the railway system's capacity through the introduction of
heavy-haul operations to the core network, consisting of the provision of electric
locomotives and spare parts, testing equipment, tools and training required therefor and the
raising of the axle load limit on the core railway network.
Part C: Studies and Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out of the following studies and provision of training and study tours
required therefor, to assist the Borrower in preparing future railway projects:
(1)    a feasibility study of dedicated passenger rail;
(2)    a study to improve the efficiency of railway investment programming;


﻿-14-
(3)    studies to develop a marketing information system, develop plans to
expand the transport management information system developed under Part B(2) of the
Project and assess new operating information systems, including a system for locomotive
and rolling stock maintenance and material stock control;
(4)    a study to improve the management and operations of railways
telecommunications systems;
(5)    a study to design diesel engines for heavy-haul and passenger operations,
including the provision of parts required therefor;
(6)    a study to strengthen MOR's treasury functions, including provision of a
computer system required therefor; and
(7)    a study to prepare an action plan to restructure and modernize the
Borrower's railway manufacturing and overhaul sub-sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                    (in Dollars)*
February 15, 2001                                    8,430,000
August 15, 2001                                      8,680,000
February 15, 2002                                    8,940,000
August 15, 2002                                      9,205,000
February 15, 2003                                    9,480,000
August 15, 2003                                      9,765,000
February 15, 2004                                    10,055,000
August 15, 2004                                      10,355,000
February 15, 2005                                    10,665,000
August 15, 2005                                      10,980,000
February 15, 2006                                    11,310,000
August 15, 2006                                      11,650,000
February 15, 2007                                    11,995,000
August 15, 2007                                      12,355,000
February 15, 2008                                    12,720,000
August 15, 2008                                      13,100,000
February 15, 2009                                    13,495,000
August 15, 2009                                      13,895,000
February 15, 2010                                    14,310,000
August 15, 2010                                      14,740,000
February 15, 2011                                    15,180,000
August 15, 2011                                      15,630,000
February 15, 2012                                   16,100,000
August 15, 2012                                      16,580,000
February 15, 2013                                    17,075,000
August 15, 2013                                      17,585,000
February 15, 2014                                   18,105,000
August 15, 2014                                      18,650,000
February 15, 2015                                    19,205,000
August 15, 2015                                      19,765,000
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
except as provided in section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures.
1.     When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, such
period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request
for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract
made subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (a) a first extension of the bid
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (b) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
2.     In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A
hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿-17-
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
Limited International Bidding
1.     Locomotives may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from at least three (3) qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Local Competitive Bidding
2.     Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Shopping
3.     Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three (3) suppliers etigible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D: Revir,Lbyj ie Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Rev-.w of nvitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    ', ith respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2(d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said


﻿- 18 -
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.
Section H. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants (a)
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.     Resettlement
The Borrower shall:
(a)    take and shall cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that all
persons displaced as a result of the Project shall be resettled in accordance with a
resettlement plan, acceptable to the Bank, designed to restore or improve the living
standards, earning capacity and production levels of such persons;
(b)     maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the
resettlement plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)    prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank not later than March 31 in each year during which resettlement activities are
carried out, a report on the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section, together with any revisions proposed to be made to said
resettlement plan so as to ensure that said plan shall meet the objectives set forth in
paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(d)     promptly introduce any such revisions to said resettlement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank.
2.     Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall:
(a)    carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with a time-bound action
plan acceptable to the Bank;
(b)     maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the
action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)    prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than June 30 and December 31 in each year during which Part A of the
Project is carried out, a report on the monitoring and evaluation activities performed


﻿-20 -
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section during the preceding six (6) months, together
with any revisions proposed to be made to said action plan so as to further the objectives
of the Project; and
(d)    promptly introduce any such revisions to said action plan as shall have
been approved by the Bank.
3.     Part B of the Project
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of Part B(4) of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
(a)    select at least two container transport companies acceptable to the Bank to
which the container transport and handling equipment to be procured under said Part B(4)
shall be leased;
(b)    employ consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank to assist it in the preparation of contractual agreements between the
Borrower and said container transport companies required for the leasing and operation of
said equipment on a commercial basis;
(c)    furnish said agreements to the Bank promptly upon their preparation and
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower thereon;
(d)    thereafter, take all measures required on its part to conclude said
agreements with said container transport companies, taking into account the views of the
Bank on the matter; and
(e)    ensure that no invitations to bid for contracts for container transport and
handling equipment included in Part B(4) of the Project shall be issued unless and until the
Borrower shall have concluded the agreements referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section.
4.     Part C of the Project
The Borrower shall:
(a)    carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a time-bound action
plan acceptable to the Bank;


﻿-21-
(b)     upon completion of each of the stadies carried out under Part C of the
Project, furnish to the Bank a copy thereof, together with the Borrower's recommendatic -s
based thereon; and
(c)     afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said studies and recommendations, and thereafter, promptly implement such
recommendations, or cause such recommendations to be implemented, taking into account
the comments of the Bank thereon.
5.     Mid-term Review
Without limitation on the provisions of Sections 1, 2 and 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall:
(a)     maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
overall carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
(b)     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, not later than October 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and Sections
1, 2, and 4 of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)     review with the Bank, not later than November 30, 1998 or such later
date as the Bank may request, said report, and thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank's views on the
matter.
6.     Plan for Operational Phase
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project;


﻿-22 -
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and effic.ency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $20,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $8,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)      (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
fumish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿-24 -
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-25 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


