                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                           Report No:




                            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                       ON A

                     PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                         OF

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
                          PROJECT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 4.4 MILLION UNDER IBRD 4841 ALB
                (US$5.6 MILLION ORIGINAL EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.5 MILLION UNDER IDA 4239 ALB
                 (US$3.7 MILLION ORIGINAL EQUIVALENT)
                    (Board Approval Date October 26, 2006)

                                         TO

                                     ALBANIA


                                  January 11, 2012




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia

                                          1
        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARCS     Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey
CPU      Competition Policy Unit
DA       Directorate for Accreditation
GDS      General Directorate of Standardization
EU       European Union
GDM      General Directorate of Metrology
METE     Ministry of Economy, Trade and Energy
MSTQ     Metrology Standards Testing and Quality
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDOs     Project development objectives
RIA      Regulatory Impact Assessment




 Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou
       Country Director:        Jane Armitage
        Sector Manager:         Lalit Raina
      Task Team Leader:         Evis Sulko


                            2
                          ALBANIA
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
                           P096643
                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page


A.     SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. 45
B.     PROJECT STATUS AND REASONS FOR THE PROPOSED CHANGES ... 45
C.     PROPOSED CHANGES .................................................................................... 1213
D.     APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................. 1314


Annex 1 : Result Framework (November 2011)....................................................... 1617
Annex 2: Action Plan ................................................................................................. 1718
Annex 3: Revised Result Framework........................................................................ 1819
Annex 4: Revised Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds and Revised Project Costs
....................................................................................................................................... 2021




                                                                     3
     ALBANIA - BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL
           STRENGTHENING PROJECT (THE PROJECT) (P096643)

                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER




SUMMARY
1.       The purpose of the second level restructuring is to extend the implementation
period due to delays with the key investments of the project (construction of the
metrology building under Part B, Development and Strengthening of the Metrology
Standards, Testing and Quality – MSTQ – system) and adopt the project to changed
circumstances. The following changes are proposed: (i) extending the closing date
from January 15, 2012 to June 30, 2012 (the borrower through the official letter
requested an extension until 30 May 2012, while the team decided to ask for an extension
until the end of the fiscal year 2012 in order to avoid any potential risk of asking for an
additional month in case needed) to complete the remaining activities, major ones of
which include the construction of the metrology laboratory and procurement of
equipment for it, (ii) addition of a new activity under Activity 1 of Part A (Facilitation of
Business Entry and Operations)1 in line with the project objectives to establish an
institutional and legal framework for inspections reform and to advance the inspection
reform launched under Part A.1; (ii) substituting the Administrative and Regulatory Cost
Survey (ARCS) with small surveys to measure outcomes under Activity 1 of Part A and
removing this as a dated covenant; (iii) dropping formally assistance to a Competition
Policy Unit (CPU) under Activity 2 of Part A as it was de facto dropped during the
negotiations; (iv) reallocating savings from Consultants Services and Goods
Categories, as well as the Unallocated Amount to Works Category for the contract for
construction of the metrology building, respectively, under Part B to finance
unanticipated cost overruns and underestimated costs. The project costs, financing and
disbursements estimates are revised accordingly. The existing PDO and the outcome
targets do not need to be changed as a result of the above changes in the scope and
design. No additional safeguards are triggered as a result of the restructuring.


PROJECT STATUS AND REASONS FOR THE
PROPOSED CHANGES
2.    Overall project outcomes. The project continues to be highly relevant for the
Government’s efforts to advance EU accession, improve the investment climate in



1
 In the Financing Agreement, Component 1 is called Part A (Facilitation of Business Entry) that consists
of assistance to regulatory reform (Part A.1. or Component 1.A in the Project Appraisal Document, PAD)
and Competition Policy Unit (Part A.2 or Component 1.B in PAD).

                                                    4
Albania and contribute to strengthening enterprises’ capability to increase exports2. The
Project Development Objectives (PDOs) is rated as moderately unsatisfactory, but
continue to be achievable and could be achieved to a moderately satisfactory level by
June 30, 2012, the proposed extended closing date. However, this depends to a great
extent on the completion of the key investment under the project – construction of
the metrology laboratory (42% of the project costs) – under Part B (Development and
Strengthening the MSTQ system). The new infrastructure is important in the assessment
of the overall outcome because the metrology (measurement) system is the most costly
component of the MSTQ system that the project has helped develop and because the
existence of appropriate facilities is also essential for Albania to be able to benefit from
aid from other donors in terms of the equipment and training needed to develop a quality
infrastructure in line with international standards3. The GDM has been able to increase
the number of calibration services provided to 600 (YTD) in November 2011 compared
to the annual (current end-of-project) target of 650 as of end-2011 and compared to 460
in 2010 and to 350 in 20094. However, because of the delays with the new infrastructure,
the GDM has not been able to increase the number of kind of measurements in which it
provides calibration services to the targeted extent. Once the equipment has been
installed into the new laboratory in May 2012 and staff trained under the existing long-
term consultancy by the end of the proposed closing date, this target would be met. Most
importantly, GDM would be able to benefit from the other donor assistance. With regards
to the business regulatory reforms (the PDO related to Part A, Facilitating Business Entry
and Operations), while the project expects to complete the survey to assess the PDO by
May 2012, Other related reports like Doing Business, Global Competitiveness Index, and
BEEPS might be used to assess country’s business environment. The completion of the
legal framework for the inspection reform and furthermore the pending adoption of the
Decree instituting the Regulatory Impact Assessment system (RIA) designed with project
support under Part A will further strengthen the significance of the results achieved to-

2
  MSTQ infrastructure is an important mechanism that can facilitate trade and develop competitiveness.
International harmonization and recognition of the MSTQ system are of critical importance for export
competitiveness, as well as to reduce technical barriers to imports. International recognition of the tests
done in a country is based on many factors, including necessary testing facilities; calibration facilities to
calibrate the testing equipment used; existence of national reference measurement standards, so that all the
measurements done in that country use the same references; up-to-date and internationally compatible
technical regulations; up-to-date and internationally compatible standards which are necessary for tests and
technical regulations; internationally compatible system for the certification of quality systems, such as ISO
9001; internationally compatible technical inspection and market surveillance system; internationally
compatible accreditation system in order to accredit calibration and testing laboratories, certification, inspection and
personnel training organizations.
3
  Implementation of the MSTQ strategy designed under the Project will have considerable impact on the
development of Albania. Before the project, Albania lagged behind in the MSTQ area in the Balkans and in
East Europe. The Government therefore planned large investments in the MSTQ infrastructure with donor
assistance over the next 15 years in order to narrow this gap and thus improve trade and attract more
foreign direct investment. While financing is received from other donors (e.g. EU and GTZ) none of these
donors provide funding for construction works. At the same time, the purchase of equipment and training
of GDMC staff is, for the most part, conditional on the existence of modern metrology laboratories.
Because of these reasons, Albania has not been able to take full advantage of EU financing for metrology
infrastructure in the past and this problem will continue in the future if new metrology laboratories are not
built. This is why the BERIS project agreed to finance the construction of new metrology laboratories.
4
  This is the PDO indicator for the PDO related to Part B, increasing enterprise’s sector capability to export.
The project has financed TA (including a public awareness campaign) and some equipment to existing facilities in
addition to the EU assistance.


                                                             5
date. The results achieved up-to-date are shown in Annex 1 and summarized briefly
below.

3.      Implementation progress. Overall implementation progress has improved
moderately satisfactory from May 2011 in terms of result data in Annex 1, procurement
and disbursement and was recently upgraded to moderately satisfactory. The value of
signed contracts increased by 10% from 71% in May 2011 to 82%5; the value of
contracts under procurement is at 3%; and the remaining 15% is allocated to activities
under Part A.1 and Part B that are advanced in procurement process and could be
contracted in January 2012 after approval of the restructuring6. As of January 4, 2011,
disbursements under the IBRD loan 48410 increased by 10% from 29% in May to 39%
of the total loan7 and disbursements under the IDA Credit 42390 increased from 57% in
May to 62% of the total credit. Due to some delays in procuring complex items and
unanticipated delays in construction and overambitious construction schedule,
disbursements are lagging behind the disbursement schedule revised in the 2010
restructuring (extension) and the FY12 disbursement ratio is slightly under ECA average
at 10.5%. However, it should be noted that, since so many activities depend on the
completion of the construction of the metrology laboratory or are being carried out in line
with the construction (equipment, furniture, supervision of construction, TA to the
GDM), a large amount of disbursements would be made only in spring 2012. The
following provides more details on the progress and remaining work to be done.

4.      Part A: Facilitation of Business Entry and Operations – Business
Regulations: This component has made satisfactory progress, and apart from the
surveys and proposed new small consultancies (see para 6), the project work has been
completed. Results and outputs include so far8: (a) establishing a light regulatory impact
assessment (RIA) and monitoring and evaluation system for regulatory reforms, training
of government officials in the RIA techniques and promoting RIA among a considerable
number of public and private stakeholders, piloting the use of RIA for two laws and
assessment of options for inspections reform; (b) establishing the Electronic Registry of
Business Legislation that became fully operational on February 19, 2011; and (c), based
on the RIA on options for inspections reform, the review of the institutional framework
for inspections and the design of a legal and institutional framework suitable for Albania.
An Action Plan for inspections reform was approved by the Task force for Regulatory
Reform in July 2010; the Inspections Law was adopted by the Council of Ministers in
March 2011 and approved by the Parliament in July 20119.



5
  This included the largest equipment package (Euro 0,7 million) for GDM and one small consultant
contract.
6
  This includes furniture package (Euro 355K) expected to be contracted in February 2012; 3 equipment
packages of Euro 240K in total expected to be contracted in January 2012; some small consultant contracts
and an IT contract, including the four new assignments of Euro 200K to support inspections reform.
7
  This includes withdrawal applications in the amount of $0.3 mn that is under the Bank approval.
8
  There was an intention to support the Government in putting in place institutions and procedures for
licensing and inspections that facilitate business operations. At the request of METE, the project did not
support work on licensing.
9
  The institutionalization of RIA is pending approval of the Council of Ministers of the Decision 584 on
Amendments to Regulatory Impact Assessment. It is expected that it will be adopted by April 2012.


                                                    6
5.     Reasons for Changes under Part A: These results could be further strengthened
and better sustained during the extended project implementation period by building on
the work financed by the project so far through the following activities:

6.      The inspection system reform is one of the priorities of the Government of
Albania under the Regulatory Reform agenda that the Project supports. There is a
significant amount of work to be done to advance the inspections reform. According to
the model for inspection outlined in the Inspections Law, the new inspection organization
will include a small new central structure (General Inspectorate) that will oversee
inspectorates in line ministries, coordinate works of various inspectorates, and oversee
the entire inspection reform. The General Inspectorate and Inspectorates within the line
ministries need training in applying the new principles, procedures and ethics;
inspectorates in line ministries need to be restructured and merged from 33 to less than
20, and over 50 sectoral technical regulations need to be amended to reflect the new
organizational structure and the Inspection Law. To build on the Project work, there is
also a need to further strengthen METE’s capacity for providing RIA training and to
strengthen monitoring of regulatory reform processes by monitoring establishment and
issuance of licenses at national level and introducing regulatory impact analysis in the
legislative practices in Albania.

7.      In this regard, the Bank team agreed with METE the inclusion of four new
consultant services assignments under Part A.1 to advance the inspections reform: (a) a
legal advisor for drafting rules of organization, functioning and the detailed functions of
the Central Inspectorate of Albania; (b) a legal advisor for drafting amendments to laws
and regulations enabling uninterrupted functioning of merged inspectorates and Central
Inspectorate; (c) an advisor for drafting regulations enabling merging of inspectorates and
their internal regulations; and (d) a senior international advisor for inspection and
regulatory reform in Albania10. These consultancies would help build capacities and
support building regulatory capacities and developing a regulatory management system
for inspections. Some of the proposed activities were launched under the large
consultancy completed under Part A.1, but a lot of work remains and some can be
completed before the proposed new closing date.

8.      In addition to additional work to advance inspections reform, the extension of the
closing date would help strengthen project outcomes in training of government officials
in the RIA techniques (see the result framework in Annex 1). Namely, METE is
planning to organize systematic training of Government officials in RIA techniques by
trained METE staff and drafted a training plan in June 2011 (this activity will be funded
by METE). These activities would contribute to meeting the training targets for Part A.1.
The training could be carried out once the Decree institutionalizing RIA has been adopted
(now expected by April 2012).



10
   This activity includes guidance on the implementation of the reform, training, preparation of a training
material on RIA for civil servants as a structured course to be delivered by METE staff that has been
already trained in RIA, drafting guidelines/paper for basic methodology and instructions to instill
monitoring and evaluation system in legislative system in Albania to control for the flow of new business
regulations or formalities.


                                                      7
9.       Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS). During May 2011
mission, the Bank team and METE agreed not to carry out the ARCS, as planned in the
PAD and as revised in the amendments of the legal agreements, but a small business
survey measuring the key outcome indicators and PDOs and a public administration
survey to monitor and evaluate reform progress within the public administration. The
new business survey will include key questions from the ARCS related to project
activities. The reason for this change is that, as the implementation of Part A.1 was
mostly completed in the end of 2010, the adoption of the Decree instituting the RIA
system was delayed and it was anticipated that it might be even more delayed (adoption
is now expected by April 2012). It became clear in May 2011 that, in order for the survey
to assess the ultimate project results, including the impact of the delayed adoption of the
Decree, there might be no time to carry out a full ARCS.

10.     It should be noted that the launch of the ARCS through hiring a survey company
is a dated covenant due December 10, 2011, as revised. The covenant is overdue because
the company has been selected but the contract is not signed (pending the extension of
the project).

11.     Originally, the project had intended to carry out two ARCSs – the first at mid-
term and the second at the end of the project - and small business surveys to assess
project outcomes under Part A.1. Based on the amendment of the legal agreements dated
January 30, 2008, the deadlines for the two ARCS that were dated covenants were
postponed by nine months11 because it was too early to conduct the planned assessment
of the impact of the regulatory reform for two reasons: (a) an investment climate survey
that overlapped with ARCS in several areas was ongoing and it was thus more
appropriate to conduct the ARCS later on; and (b) implementation of Part A.1 had
experienced some delays (the terms of reference for selection of the consultant for
implementing Part A.1 had only been cleared by the Bank in July 2007). Further, through
an amendment of the legal agreements dated January 28, 2010, the Bank and the
Borrower formalized the agreement made during the March/April 2009 mission to carry
out only one ARCS at the end of the project and drop small business surveys for a
number of reasons: (a) due to a number of World Bank and other surveys ongoing in
Albania12, carrying out an ARCS at mid-term might have an adverse effect in terms of
response rates and quality of the data collected; (b) other surveys that overlapped to a
large extent with ARCS had provided sufficient data for monitoring business regulatory
reforms; and with regards to the small surveys, (c) the one ARCS at project-end would be
sufficient to measure the progress towards the PDO; and (d) there was available
additional information based on the M&E work carried out for the project by METE with
an M&E consultant hired under the project. At that time, the launch of the ARCS had
thus been overdue (it was due on 12/30/2008), as noted in the ISR of February 2009, and
METE was expected to submit a request for its extension in accordance with the revised
implementation timetable for the component agreed during the October 2008 mission13.
The request from the Government was not received but, as said above, during the
11
   To December 30, 2008 and December 31, 2010.
12
   Only the World Bank surveys included ARCS 2005, 2007-2008 ICA survey, 2008 BEEPs survey, annual
Doing Business survey.
13
   Activities under Part A.1 had progressed (the consultant contract was expected to be signed in the end of
2008 based on the October 2008 mission)


                                                     8
March/April 2009 mission it was agreed to launch only the second ARCS by December
10, 2010, before the project closure, and to drop small surveys. Finally, based on the
amendment of the legal agreements dated August 31, 2010, the deadline for launching
the ARCS was postponed by one year to December 10, 2011 to assess the outcomes of
Part A.1 at the end of the new closing date approved at that time.

12.     Part A.2: Facilitation of Business Entry and Operations - Competition Policy
Unit. The initial project design included assistance to build the capacity of the CPU to
assess the impact of regulations on market competition. The CPU was supposed to
undertake such assessments both for existing and new regulatory measures. This activity
was, however, dropped in negotiations, and the project never financed any direct
assistance to the CPU because the CPU was, in practice, a small unit within the
Department of Market Policies (DMP) (the original Project implementation unit) in
METE that was soon merged with other functions in DMP. Currently METE does not
foresee a need for specific capacity building under Project financing to assess impact of
regulations on competition.

13.     Part B: Development and Strengthening of the MSTQ System. Progress in
Part B has been uneven with good results in preparation of a medium term strategy for
quality infrastructure, capacity building in the beneficiary agencies in the areas of
metrology, standardization and accreditation and activities for raising public awareness of
MSTQ and increased use of calibration services provided by GDM (the largest project
beneficiary). The key investment – construction of the metrology laboratory for the
General Directorate of Metrology (GDM) – has been delayed since the project extension
of August 2010 ) and is the reason for non-achievement of the target for number of kind
of measurement services GDM is able to provide calibration services (see Annex 1 and
para 2). At the same time, 80% of the civil works and 10% of technical and electrical
works (that account for a major part of the contract) have been completed.
Implementation of related activities has advanced since May 2011, although with some
delay: the largest equipment package (ICB III) valued at Euro 0.6 was contracted in
November 2011; and procurement of total four equipment and furniture packages
estimated at about Euro 1 mn are expected to be contracted in January/February.
Regarding the existing laboratories, two lots of equipment at Euro 150,000 have been
delivered to the GDM. Thanks to these and EU investments in metrology equipment,
GDM has increased provision of calibration services although not in line with targets due
to the delays with the construction (see Annex 1). Due to the recent progress since May
2011, the component is rated moderately satisfactory. The GDM is expected to meet the
targets for the number of kind of measurements in which it is able to provide calibration
services upon completion of the lab.

14.    Reasons for Changes. Unless more implementation time is granted, the
project will not meet its development objectives with respect to the development of
the MSTQ system. Completion of the metrology laboratory on a timely basis is critically
important for Albania to achieve the project objectives and utilize the EU funding to
support development of the metrology system. Without World Bank financing, Albania is




                                            9
likely to lose the opportunity in the near term to have modern metrology facilities, which
are a precondition for absorbing additional funds from other donors, notably the EU14.

15.     Since the first extension of the project closing date was approved in August
2010 and the construction of the metrology laboratory was launched in September
2010 (with a delay) with the completion date in September 2011, construction was
delayed due to unanticipated work during the excavation period in Spring 2011 and
interruption of work due to bad weather. There was also need to increase the contract
value to finance unforeseen additional works during the construction. Subsequently, the
completion date of works was extended from September 5, 2011 to October 28, 2011 and
the contract value was increased from All 393,833,703 to All 445, 410,958. Thereafter,
due to the delayed launch of the mechanical installation, delays in subsequent work and
underestimated implementation period, METE, GDM and the construction firm have now
agreed that a more realistic completion date of works would be April 30, 2012. The
closing date of the project would thus need to be extended to allow completion of the
laboratory and installation of the equipment and furniture.

16.     Project Financial Management is currently rated as Moderately Satisfactory and
the counterpart funding is rated Moderately Satisfactory reflecting the drawbacks of the
mainstreaming of overall financial management arrangements for implementation
through the Single Treasury System, such as delays in the processing of transactions. In
addition, the project has experienced delays in receiving counterpart funds (1-2 months
delay), as the budgetary thresholds set for 2011 have been lower than the project needs.
Budgetary ceilings were imposed on foreign financing during the last two months of
2012, as discussed in the following paragraph. There are no outstanding audit reports for
the Project and all audit reports were found satisfactory to the Bank. Quarterly IFRs have
been submitted periodically with minor delays, in the format acceptable to the Bank.

17.     Most recently, delays in disbursements due to implementation issues (mainly the
construction of the metrology lab, 42% of project costs, and related equipment of over
Euro 1 mn) have been exacerbated by foreign financing ceilings imposed by the Ministry
of Finance during the last two months of 2011 due to the adverse impact of the eurozone
crisis on economic growth, budget revenues and public debt level. This is a countrywide
issue, which has affected almost all the Bank projects in implementation in Albania. The
national budget for 2012 will continue to be very constrained, in order to keep
public debt, the highest in South-Eastern Europe, below the 60% threshold. As such,
the Bank team remains concerned about the impact of budget ceilings on project
implementation. The METE and the MoF have assured the Bank team that the budgetary
threshold imposed on domestic and foreign investments will not negatively affect
Government contribution and IDA and IBRD planned disbursements to financing the
project expenditures in 2012. In this regard, it was agreed during the November mission
and subsequent meetings with the MoF and METE that sufficient funds for government
14
   The construction of new metrology laboratories is critical for Albania to upgrade its quality infrastructure to EU
standards. While financing is received from other donors (e.g. EU and GTZ) none of these donors provide funding for
construction works. At the same time, the purchase of equipment and training of GDMC staff is, for the most part,
conditional on the existence of modern metrology laboratories. Because of these constraints, Albania has not been able
to take full advantage of EU financing for metrology infrastructure in the past and this problem will continue in the
future if new metrology laboratories are not built. This is why the BERIS project agreed to finance the construction of
new metrology laboratories.


                                                         10
contribution (including forex losses) and foreign financing will be made available by
March 2012 to cover project costs and successfully close the project (see Annex 2).

18.     The government contribution consists in 5% of project costs exclusive of taxes
(local cost) and 20% of VAT, if applicable. Foreign exchange losses incurred during
implementation of the project amount to EUR 26.8 thousand and EUR 44.2 thousand,
respectively for IBRD loan and IDA credit, as of November 2011. As the Borrower
bears all foreign exchange risks, the losses incurred require addressing by the METE/
MoF as the project approaches completion to avoid short-fall in financing signed
contracts, and financing of overall project expenditures. During 2011, a partial refund
amounting USD 19.6 thousand has been made in IBRD loan account. METE has assured
that funds will be made available in the 2012 budget under the local cost caption in order
to cover for the above mentioned foreign exchange losses as well as 5% local cost and
VAT on project expenditures within March 2012. (See Annex 2)

19.     The Borrower performance. The Borrower’s and the implementation agencies’
performance is moderately satisfactory with moderate shortcomings that are being
addressed based on the actions agreed during the November 2011 supervision mission15.
With the efforts taken to address the shortcomings and commitment of the Borrower, the
implementation progress picked up between May 2011 and year-end and justified the
upgrade of the project management and implementation progress to moderately
satisfactory (see para 3).

20.     More specifically, with regards to the implementation agencies, the
shortcomings that affected implementation during the project life and more recently
between end-2010 and Fall 2011 have been and are being addressed, as follows: (i) the
procurement consultant will continue to assist METE staff until the closing date to
strengthen the quality of the procurement work; (ii) METE appointed a new project
manager in June 2011, and (iii) in order to improve the efficiency of coordination within
METE and between METE, GDM and supervision of construction, the Bank team leader
based in the Country Office will meet weekly with METE/GDM to review procurement
and implementation progress and a civil engineer hired by the Bank will continue to carry
out bi-monthly on-site visits with the supervision firm and construction site to help identify early
signals of concern. With regards to financial management and provision of counterpart
funding, the Borrower (MoF) performance is rated moderately satisfactory (see para
15-17).

21.     Going forward, since practically all key procurement – civil works and large
equipment packages – have been completed, there is less concern that the weak
procurement capacity will jeopardize the project results. At this point, the key weakness
with the Borrower performance is related to coordination and supervision of civil works
that the Bank team is monitoring very closely now. The foreign financing threshold will


15
   It is very important to note that the overall delays in project implementation and low level of disbursements have
been caused by other factors to a great extent, as explained in the restructuring paper from August 2010 and in this
paper. These factors included the project design factors (i.e., time required to prepare MSTQ strategies and develop
TORs before activities were launched), change of the site for the new metrology lab, procurement complaints, lengthy
ICB procedures, external factors (poor weather and unanticipated work during the construction).


                                                         11
become an increasing concerning issue for all projects in 2012 that will require closer
cooperation between Bank and Government in all the projects.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Closing date

22.     The Project Closing Date would be extended until June 30, 2012. This would be
the second extension of the Project resulting in a total extension of 17.5 months. The
Project meets the criteria for extensions outlined in OP 13.30, as explained in Section B
related to achievability of the PDOs and satisfactory Borrower performance, as well as to
existence of an implementation action plan (para 29).

Parts of the Project/Components

23.      Part A.1.16 of the Project will be:

      (a) expanded including a new activity “establishing an institutional and legal
          framework for inspections reform? to advance the inspections reform that was
          designed and launched under the project and to strengthen the project impact. The
          proposed activities include consultant services at the estimated cost of Euro
          200,000.
      (b) modified due to delays by removing reference to “undertaking an ARCS
          (Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey) to assess outcomes of Part A of the
          project? in current activity (e), as amended (throughout the legal agreements). The
          project will undertake small business surveys to measure these project outcomes.
          The legal covenant related to launching the ARCS by December 10, 2011, as
          revised, will dropped.

24.     Part A.2. in the Financing Agreement will be cancelled because the project did
not finance any assistance to CPU and is not anticipated to finance any.

Institutional Arrangements

25.     Subsequently, the “Competition Policy Unit? will be removed from the project as
the project beneficiary / agency responsible for implementation of Part A.2.

Results Framework

26.     The result framework is revised by (i) removing reference to the intermediate
result related to the CPU since the assistance to the CPU is cancelled (there were no
separate component indicators related to the CPU); (ii) adding a new PDO level indicator
“number of inspection agencies? with a baseline of 33 and target of <20 (30%) to

16
  In the Financing Agreement, Component 1 is called Part A (Facilitation of Business Entry) that consists
of assistance to regulatory reform (Part A.1. or Component 1.A in the Project Appraisal Document, PAD)
and Competition Policy Unit (Part A.2 or Component 1.B in PAD).


                                                    12
measure the additional project activities supporting inspections reform and institutional
strengthening; (iii) removing reference to ARCS under the following PDO indicators:
business satisfaction with quality of regulation and % of senior manager time dealing
with state administration; and (iv) revising the PDO #3 based on expected improved
performance (as of mid-year) and correcting the erroneous target for Intermediate
Indicator #1 under Part B (based on equipment procured) (see Annex 3).

Financing

27.      Reallocations: As shown in Annex 4, Credit and Loan funds will be reallocated
from Consultants, Goods Categories and Unallocated Categories to Works Category
for financing the increased (unforeseen) costs of construction of the metrology laboratory
(see para 13). The reallocation is made possible by savings gained from consolidating
activities under one large contract under Part A.1., reducing the scope of M&E activities
under this contract during implementation, cancellation of the CPU under Part A.2. and
availability of some unallocated funds under Part A and C (Project Coordination). Some
savings were also gained after updating the project costs based on actual contract values.

28.     Project costs and Financing plan. Project costs and Financing Plan, as presented
in the PAD, will be revised to reflect all the proposed changes, as shown in Annex 4.

29.     Implementation plan. METE has prepared an action plan acceptable to the Bank
team to complete the remaining activities under the project. This includes: (a) a revised
timetable to complete the works by April 30, 2012 with the Defect & Liability Period
ending on May 30, 2012 and an action plan for other key actions affecting
implementation and project results (Annex 2); and (b) an updated procurement plan to
reflect the proposed additional activities to advance the inspections reform, as well as
revised costs and estimated timetable for procuring the equipment and furniture for the
metrology laboratory and other remaining activities.


APPRAISAL SUMMARY
30.     Technical. It should be noted that Part A.1. was designed to implement business
regulatory reforms in a systematic manner and on a sustainable basis in key areas
affecting businesses entry and operations. It should be further noted that, after project
launch, certain reform activities related to building regulatory capacities and a regulatory
management system were further defined and specified to country circumstances to
support the PDOs and Part A outcomes.

31.     Originally, the project included institutionalization of a regulatory impact
assessment and improvement of access to business regulations (which was done, see
Section B). In addition, the PAD identified two areas of business operations that were
particularly problematic and costly in Albania - inspections and licensing – and where the
Government was committed to reforms17. In this regard, when the project activities were
being defined in the early years of implementation to support Part A outcomes, the World
17
     Inspections and licensing were not mentioned separately in the Financing Agreement.


                                                     13
Bank encouraged the Government to consider a strategic approach to reforming
inspections and licensing systems (instead of a fragmented, isolated changes).

32.     In the area of licensing, METE did not fully share the Bank’s suggested approach
of prior assessment of reform options by international experts. Rather, it chose to obtain
assistance from other donors to fund the licensing component in line with more short-
term objectives. As agreed between the Government and the Bank, the role of the
regulatory reform consultant under the project was confined to monitoring developments
in the area of licensing. To date, the newly established National Licensing Center has
competence over a narrow subset of business licenses. Despite anecdotal evidence
indicating an improved perception of licensing by business, a full-fledged assessment of
the reform would require additional data and analysis, beyond the current scope and
resources of the project.

33.     In the area of inspections, the project financed a comprehensive institutional
reform based on a strategic approach and consideration of different options. Specifically,
as described in Section B, the project financed (i) an impact assessment of the reform
options for inspections, based on the RIA capabilities being acquired, in parallel, by
METE; and (ii) design of a new legal and institutional framework in accordance with
existing capacities in Albania, as well as legal and organizational set-up of the Country.
The framework is in line with EU requirements for various sectors of interest, as well as
with the “best practices? globally. This reform was well-thought and broadly consulted
before decision was made to proceed.

34.     Regarding the project outcomes, it is expected that the fundamental reform of the
inspections system will significantly strengthen Part A’s contribution to expected
outcomes measured in terms of improved business satisfaction with quality of regulation
and less time spent with state administration.

35.    There are no changes to economic and financial, social or environmental analysis.
There are no exceptions to Bank Policy.

36.    Risks. There is a risk with regards to Part B – not mentioned at appraisal - that
timely completion of the construction of the metrology laboratory will be affected by
external factors, such as weather condition. This risk has been now counted into the
proposed new closing date. With regards to Part A outcomes, the key risk is related to the
delayed adoption of the Decree instituting the Regulatory Impact Assessment system
designed with project support. Failure to swiftly adopt this crucial piece of legislation
would compromise the realization of project outcomes under Part A, while also
undermining the significance of the results achieved to-date. There is also a risk with the
impact of budget ceilings on project implementation (para 16-17).

37.     Mitigation measures. The risks, as identified at appraisal, are mitigated by the
actions agreed during November 2011 mission: (a) the Bank team, METE and GDM will
meet weekly to monitor progress against the construction timetable and procurement
plan; (b) METE and GDM will ensure adherence of the main contractor to the need to
increase manpower and working time to complete the construction on time; (c) the Bank
will carry out bi-monthly on-site supervision of the construction; (d) the contract of the


                                            14
local procurement will be extended until the proposed new closing date; (e) both the
Prime Ministry and METE have strong ownership of the inspections reform and their
leadership will ensure commitment and support from relevant ministries; (f) the risk that
there might be an opposition from line ministries and inspections to merger and more
transparent work will be mitigated by publicizing broadly principles and goals of
inspection reform; getting businesses associations to voice their support to the reform and
to criticize any opposition to the reform, and to closely monitor progress of the reform by
Albania Country Office and to engage the highest levels of the Government of Albania if
opposition is detected; and (f) the METE and the MoF have assured the Bank team that
the budgetary threshold imposed on domestic and foreign investments will not negatively
affect Government contribution and IDA and IBRD planned disbursements to financing
the project expenditures in 2012.




                                            15
Annex 1 : Result Framework (November 2011)
                                                                                                                                             Target Values
Outcome Indicators                                                                           Baseline    2006      2007     2008    2009     2010 5/2011         6/2011     11/2011     12/2011

Business satisfaction with quality of regulation (source: ARCS) (1)                             3.3        NA       NA      NA        NA       NA                   NA         NA             2.5
  Actual                                                                                      (2005)
% of Senior manager time dealing with state administration (ARCS)                              16.1        NA       NA      NA        NA       NA                   NA         NA             13
  Actual                                                                                      (2005)
Use of MSTQ services, measured as number of calibration services provided by
                                                                                                26         30       190     250       350      450                 300         650            650
GDM (YTD)
                                                                                              (2006)
  Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                                       26       200     280       350      460      180        295         600
Results Indicators for Each Component
Business Entry and Operations Component:
Number of Government officials trained in RIA and other regulatory review
                                                                                                0          NA       NA        3       40       40                   50          90            90
techniques by the project (cumulative)
                                                                                              (2006)
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                                                           3        0       42        42         42          42
Number of RIA pilots carried out (cumulative)                                                   0          NA       NA      NA         1        3                    3          3              3
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                           (2006)                                   1        3         3          3          3
Export Capability Component:
Number of kind of measurements (2) in which GDMC is able to provide
                                                                                                            5        6       13       20       25                   30          50            50
calibration services (cumulative)                                                            4 (2006)
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                                         4        5       13       20       20        20         20          25
Number of accreditations granted in accordance with the EA standards (cum.)                                 3        6        9       13       20                   22          24            24
                                                                                             3 (2006)
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                                         3        7       13       16       17        14         14          16
Number of accreditation assessors trained (by the project) (cumulative)                         0          NA        5       10       15       20                   40          50            50
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                           (2006)                 5       14       14       50        69         69          79
% of adopted standards made available electronically (cumulative)                              77.4       77.4     81.5      84       90       100                 100         100            100
 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                           (2006)      77.4     81.5      84       90      97.5      100        100         100
Project Coordination Support Component:
Number of workshops organized by METE to discuss Government’s progress in
business environment reforms with relevant stakeholders, including progress made                            5        8       10       13       15                   16          17            17
in BERIS-supported reforms (cumulatve)                                                       5 (2006)

 Actual (latest actual: 30/11/2011)                                                                         5        8       10       13       16        16         16          16
[1] 1 very satisfied; 6 Very dissatisfied; (2) Dimensional, Mass, Force, Electricity, Flow, Pressure, Temperature, Volume, Acceleration, Time and frequency, Humidity, Roughness, Hardness,
Magnetism, Viscosity, Acoustics, Optics, Vibrations, Ionizing Radiation, Chemistry.


                                                                                                16
Annex 2: Action Plan

Who                       Action                                                  By when
MoF                       Provide funds (Euro 290,000) for making                 15 December
                          unpaid amounts to ensure meeting of project
                          objectives
MoF/METE                  Provide sufficient funds for local cost                 March 2012
                          (including forex losses) and foreign
                          financing to successfully close the project
Bank                      Supervision mission and ICR launch                      February 2012
Council of                Adopt the Decree instituting the Regulatory             April 2012
Ministers                 Impact Assessment system
METE/GDM/main             Complete works for the construction of the              by April 30, 2012 (pending
contractor                metrology lab                                           extension)
METE/GDM                  Complete procurement and installation of                According to the proposed
                          equipment for the metrology lab                         procurement plan (pending
                                                                                  extension)
METE                      Send the final update of the procurement                December 5, 2011
                          plan to the Bank
METE                      Send the Bank an updated procurement plan               By end of the first week of
                                                                                  each month
Bank/METE/GDM             Meet to review progress against the updated             Weekly
                          procurement plan (subject to extension)
METE                      Extend the contract of the local procurement            Upon proposed extension
                          and financial consultant until the proposed             of the closing date
                          new closing date18




18
  The contracts of the financial management expert and M&E consultant will likewise be extended until the proposed
new closing date.

                                                        17
Annex 3: Revised Result Framework

                                                  of the Project are: (a) to facilitate business entry and operation; and (b) to strengthen the capacity of the
Project Development Objective (PDO): The objectives
Recipient’s business sector to increase exports towards regional and European Union (EU) markets.
Revised Project Development Objective: Not applicable
                                                D=Dropped
                                                                                                Cumulative Target Values
                                                C=Continue


                                       Core
      PDO Level Results                         N= New       Unit of                                                             YR6
                                                                                                                                                              Data Source/       Responsibility for
                                                R=Revised
                                                                       Baseline    YR1      YR2       YR3       YR      YR5                 Frequency
        Indicators*                                          Measure                                                            (June                         Methodology         Data Collection
                                              (revision in                        (2006)   (2007)    (2008)   (2009)   (2010)
                                                                                                                                2012)
                                              italics)
Indicator One: Business                             C        Number      3.3       NA       NA        NA       NA       NA       2.5     At the end of the   Reports prepared    METE
satisfaction with quality of                                           (2005)                                                            project             by the MSES
regulation
Indicator Two: % of Senior                          C          %         16.1      NA       NA        NA       NA       NA       13      At the end of the   Reports prepared    METE
manager time dealing with state                                         (2005)                                                           project             by the MSES
administration
Indicator Three: Use of MSTQ                        C        Number       26       30       190       250      350      450       400    Semi-annual         Reports prepared    GDMC to METE
services, measured as number of                                         (2006)                                                   (800                        by the GDMC
calibration services provided (year-                                                                                            at the
to-date)                                                                                                                        end of
                                                                                                                                2012)
Indicator Four: Number of                           N        Number      33        NA       NA        NA       NA       NA       <20
inspection agencies                                                    (2011)
                                                                                  INTERMEDIATE RESULTS


Intermediate Result (Component One): Business Entry and Operations Component: Government has well-functioning mechanisms and policies in place for systematically
assessing and improving the business environment, including for applying the RIA and other complementary mechanisms to business sector regulations. The CPU has strengthened
its capacity to assess impact of regulatory measures on competition.The CPU has strengthened its capacity to assess impact of regulatory measures on competition.
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): Government has well-functioning mechanisms and policies in place for systematically assessing and improving the business
environment, including for applying the RIA and other complementary mechanisms to business sector regulations.
Intermediate Result indicator                       C        Number       0       NA       NA         3        40       40       90      Semi-annual *       Monitoring report   TFU
One: Number of Government                                              (2006)
officials trained in RIA and other
regulatory review techniques
(cumulative)
                                                    C        Number       0       NA       NA        NA        1         3        3      Semi-annual *       Monitoring report   TFU
Intermediate Result indicator                                          (2006)
Two: Number of RIA pilots
carried out (cumulative)




                                                                                           18
Intermediate Result (Component Two): Export Capability Component: The General Directorate for Metrology (GDMC), General Directorate of Standardization (DPS), and Directorate for
Accreditation (DA) have acquired the ability to deliver MSTQ services to meet business sector needs.
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Not applicable

Intermediate Result indicator                    C            Number             4           5          6         13        20         25        30      Semi-annual *          Statistics             GDMC to METE
One: Number of kind of                                                        (2006)
measurements19 in which GDMC is
able to provide calibration services
(cumulative)
Intermediate Result indicator                    C            Number             3            3         6         9         13         20        24      Semi-annual *          Statistics             DA to METE
Two: Number of accreditations                                                 (2006)
granted in accordance with the EA
standards (cumulative)
Intermediate Result indicator                    C            Number             0          NA          5         10        15         20        50      Semi-annual *          Statistics             DA to METE
Three:: Number of accreditation                                               (2006)
assessors trained (cumulative)
Intermediate Result indicator                    C               %             77.4         77.4      81.5        84        90         94       100      Semi-annual *          Statistics             DPS to METE
Four: % of adopted standards                                                  (2006)
made available electronically
(cumulative)
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Project Coordination Support Component: The METE has acquired the capacity to monitor and evaluate progress in improving the business
environment and implement effective consultation with business sector
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Not applicable
Intermediate Result indicator                    C            Number             5            5         8         10        13         15        17      Annual *               Semiannual and         METE to policy
One: Number of workshops                                                      (2006)                                                                                            annual reports,        makers, business
organized by the METE to discuss                                                                                                                                                workshop               association, general
Government’s progress in business                                                                                                                                               documentation and      public
environment reforms with relevant                                                                                                                                               list of participants
stakeholders, including progress
made in BERIS-supported reforms
(cumulative)




19
   Dimensional, Mass, Force, Electricity, Flow, Pressure, Temperature, Volume, Acceleration, Time and frequency, Humidity, Roughness, Hardness, Magnetism, Viscosity, Acoustics, Optics, Vibrations, Ionizing
Radiation, Chemistry.



                                                                                                     19
Annex 4: Revised Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds and Revised Project Costs

   (a) Reallocation of Proceeds under Loan: IBRD 48410 ALB
   (SCHEDULE 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit)

                                     Allocation                           % of Financing
                      Current (in Euro)    Revised (in Euro)   Current          Revised

Category
(1) Goods                   1,650,000           1,622,000      95%               95%
(2)Works                    2,690,000           2,778,000      95%               95%
(3) Consultant                 10,000                   0      95%               95%
Services
(4)Unallocated)                50,000                   0      95%               95%
(5)Front-end Fee                   0                    0      Amount payable    Amount payable
                                                               pursuant to       pursuant to Section
                                                               Section 2.04 of   2.04 of this
                                                               this Agreement    Agreement in
                                                               in accordance     accordance with
                                                               with Section      Section 2.07(b) of
                                                               2.07(b) of the    the General
                                                               General           Conditions
                                                               Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT                4,400,000            4,400,000




                                                               20
   (b) Reallocation of Proceeds under Credit: IDA 42390 ALB
   (SCHEDULE 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit)

                                    Allocation                          % of Financing
                      Current (in SDR)    Revised (in SDR)    Current         Revised

Category
(1) Consultant              2,143,000          1,942,000      95%             95%
Services
(2)Training                   310,000           310,000       95%             95%
(3) Goods and Works            10,000           211,000       95%             95%
(4.)Incremental                37,000            37,000       95%             95%
Operating Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT                2,500,000          2,500,000




                                                              21
       (c ) Project costs

Project costs, as presented in the PAD, will be revised to reflect all the proposed changes, as shown in below table:

Components                                 Original       % of   Revised       % of
                                           (Euro 1000)    Total (Euro 1000)    Total
Part A: Facilitating Business Entry                 1,711     22         1,405    18.3
and Operations
1.1. Business Regulation                             1,426        19            1,405       18.3
1.2. Competition Policy                                285         4                0          0
Part B. Development and                              5,665        74            6,086       79.3
Srengthening of the MSTQ System
2.1. Metrology                                       5,060       66             5,455       71.1
2.2. Standardization                                   150        2               199         2.6
2.3. Accreditation                                     200        3               252         3.3
2.4. Inter-institutional Activities                    255        3               180         2.3
Part C. Project Coordination                           235        3               181         2.4
Unallocated                                             50        1                 0           0
Front-end Fee                                         10.9        0                 0           0
TOTAL                                                7,672      100             7,672        100




                                                                       22
23
