                            Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR2350



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-48410 and IDA-42390)



                                    ON A LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                EURO 4.4 MILLION

                         (US 5.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          AND

                                   ON A CREDIT
                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 3.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                     ALBANIA

                                          FOR

  BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM & INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
                           PROJECT

                                   [April 23, 2014]




Financial and Private Sector Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 12/7/2012)

                          Currency Unit = Euro
                           1 Euro = US$ 1.29
                          US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.77

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARCS     Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey
BERIS    Business Environment Reform and Institutional Strengthening
CARDS    Community Assistance for Reconstruction and Development Support
CA       Competition Authority
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPU      Competition Policy Unit
DA       Directorate of Accreditation
DPL      Development Policy Loan
DMP      Department of Market Policies of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
         Energy
DPS      General Directorate of Standardization
EC       European Commission
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EP       European Partnership
EU       European Union
FIAS     Foreign Investor Advisory Service
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FY       Fiscal year
GMC      General Directorate of Metrology and Calibration
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ      Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Agency
IFR      Interim un-audited Financial Report
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IS0      International Organization for Standardization
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
METE     Ministry of Economy, Trade and Energy
MSTQ     Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
IEG      Internal Evaluation Group
PM       Prime Minister
PPPS    Public-Private Partnerships
RIA     Regulatory Impact Assessment
SaU     State-aid Unit
TF      Task Force
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WEF     World Economic Forum
WTO     World Trade Organization




        Vice President:             Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:           Ellen A. Goldstein
        Sector Manager:             Lalit Raina
        Project Team Leader:        Evis Sulko
        ICR Team Leader:            Evis Sulko
                            ALBANIA
   BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM & INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
                            PROJECT


                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
      1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1
      1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators ................. 3
      1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
      and reasons/justification.............................................................................................. 4
      1.4 Main Beneficiaries ................................................................................................ 4
      1.5 Original Components ............................................................................................ 4
      1.6 Revised Components ............................................................................................ 6
      1.7 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
      2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ...... 9
      2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance ................................................................. 11
      2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase .............................................................. 12
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 12
      3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 12
      3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives .............................................. 13
      3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 19
      3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 19
       3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
       5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 21
       5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 22
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 39
   MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Business Environment
                                                                          Reform and
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:
                                                                          Institutional
                                                                          Strengthening
                                                                          IBRD-48410,IDA-
Project ID:             P096643                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          42390
ICR Date:               03/11/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ALBANIA
Original Total
                        USD 9.30M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.16M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 8.82M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/10/2005     Effectiveness:          03/01/2007          03/01/2007
                                                                                 04/10/2007
                                                                                 01/30/2008
Appraisal:            03/31/2006     Restructuring(s):                           01/28/2010
                                                                                 08/31/2010
                                                                                 01/11/2012
Approval:             10/26/2006     Mid-term Review:        04/30/2009          03/23/2009
                                     Closing:                01/15/2011          06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings                Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory


                                                i
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Legal institutions for a market economy                                 20                  20
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                    20                  20
Regulation and competition policy                                       20                  20
Trade facilitation and market access                                    40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:           Ellen A. Goldstein                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:             Lalit Raina                          Fernando Montes-Negret
Project Team Leader:        Evis Sulko                           Silvia Minotti
ICR Team Leader:            Evis Sulko
ICR Primary Author:         Hiran Herat




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the BERIS is to assist the Government to: (i) facilitate business
entry and operations in the formal economy; and (ii) strengthen the enterprise sector's
capability to increase exports towards the region and EU markets.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

  As agreed with the Government, key results (PDO) indicators were replaced by the
following indicators that reflected the project outputs and activities better and more
comprehensively: business satisfaction with quality of regulation, % of senior manager
time dealing with state administration, use of MSTQ services, measured as number of
calibration services provided and number of inspection agencies.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years
                Business satisfaction with quality of regulation (1 = very satisfied; 6 = very
Indicator 1 :
                dissatisfied)
Value
quantitative or 3.3 (ARCS)                NA                  2.5            2.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2010          06/30/2012     06/30/2012
                100% achievement (a public administration sruvey was carried out on project
Comments
                funds among 150 public servants and executives of 601 non-agricultural private
(incl. %
                businesses located in Albania and operating in manufacture, commerce, services
achievement)
                and construction)
Indicator 2 : % of Senior manager time dealing with state administration
Value
                                                              13 (small
quantitative or 16.1 (ARCS)               NA                                 N/A
                                                              survey)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                  12/31/2010          06/30/2012     06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Use of MSTQ services, measured as number of calibration services provided
Indicator 3 :
                (year-to-date)
                                          50 (the "number of
                                          calibration         400 as of
Value
                                          services" indicator 6/30/12 (and
quantitative or 26                                                           806
                                          under the Export 800 as of
Qualitative)
                                          Capability          12/31/12)
                                          Component, as per


                                               iii
                                            PAD)
Date achieved     12/31/2006                12/31/2010          06/30/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          101% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of inspection agencies
Value
quantitative or   33                        NA                  less than 20   12
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2011                12/31/2010          06/30/2012     02/28/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% achievement
achievement)
                  Reduced cost, time and steps for businesses to comply with business regulations
Indicator 5 :     affecting business entry and operations (as measured by ARCS/Doing Business
                  surveys)
Value
                                            Not available in    Dropped in
quantitative or   Not available in PAD                                         N/A
                                            PAD                 2010
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 12/31/2010         06/30/2012      02/28/2013
Comments          Dropped in the restructuring approved by Bank management in January 2010
(incl. %          because they did not measure the project activities very closely. Replaced with
achievement)      the above new PDO Indicators 1 and 2.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Number of Government officials trained in Regulatory Impact Assessment and
Indicator 1 :
                other regulatory review techniques (cumulative)
                                                                              42 trained officials;
Value                                                          90 (target for
                                           325 (the target for                115 high-level
(quantitative   0                                              training
                                           training trainees)                 officials trained in
or Qualitative)                                                trainers)
                                                                              two workshops
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/31/2010          06/30/2012     06/30/2012
Comments
                46% achievement with regards to training trainers; additionally trained 115 high-
(incl. %
                level officials
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of RIA pilots carried out (cumulative)
                                           NA (the original
                                           indicator "number
Value                                      of regulatory
(quantitative   0                          regimes reviewed 3                 3
or Qualitative)                            and streamlined"
                                           dropped as unclear
                                           and thus not



                                                  iv
                                         comparable with
                                         the revised
                                         indicator)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                 12/31/2010          12/31/2010    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
                Number of kind of measurements in which GDMC is able to provide calibration
Indicator 3 :
                services (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   4                         NA                 30            30
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
                Number of accreditations granted in accordance with the European co-operation
Indicator 4 :
                for Accreditation (EA) standards (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   3                         NA                 24            24
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Number of accreditation assessors trained (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   0                         20                 50            50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 6 : % of adopted standards made available electronically (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   77.4                      NA                 100           100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  12/31/2010         06/30/2012    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)
                Number of workshops organized by the METE to discuss Government's progress
Indicator 7 : in business environment reforms with relevant stakeholders, including progress
                made in BERIS-supported reforms (cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   5                         4                  17            16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  12/31/2006         06/30/2012    06/30/2012


                                              v
Comments
(incl. %       94% achievement
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                              IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1    03/01/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    08/31/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.87
  3    06/02/2008    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.95
  4    02/18/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.07
  5    06/23/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.20
                          Moderately                     Moderately
  6    01/17/2010                                                                       1.08
                        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                     Moderately
  7    05/25/2010                                                                       1.35
                        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  8    12/04/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             2.08
                          Moderately                     Moderately
  9    07/09/2011                                                                       3.76
                        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                     Moderately
 10    12/24/2011                                                                       4.35
                        Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately
 11    01/17/2012                                   Moderately Satisfactory             4.73
                        Unsatisfactory
 12    06/24/2012    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             6.48


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of the deadline for
                                                     the development strategy of the
                                                     MSTQ system and the national
 04/10/2007               S       S           0.00
                                                     metrology strategy due to the
                                                     importance of a broad
                                                     consultation
                                                     Extension of the deadline for
                                                     completing the ARCS surveys
                                                     as it was too early to measure
 01/30/2008               S       S           0.87
                                                     results due to delayed launch of
                                                     implementing activities under
                                                     the regulatory component



                                               vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Completion of only one (the
                                                     second) ARCS due to
                                                     implementation delays;
 01/28/2010       N       MU    MU            1.08
                                                     enhancement of the result
                                                     framework to better measure the
                                                     originally expected outcomes
                                                     First extension of the closing
                                                     date to complete the metrology
                                                     laboratory; extension of the
 08/31/2010               MU    MU            1.45   deadline for ARCS accordingly;
                                                     further refinement of the result
                                                     framework and update of the
                                                     targets
                                                     Second extension of the closing
                                                     date to complete the metrology
                                                     laboratory; addition of specific
                                                     TA for inspections reform;
                                                     replacement of the ARCS with
 01/11/2012               MU    MU            4.42   small business survey to
                                                     measure the project outcomes;
                                                     dropping formally TA to the
                                                     Competition Agency as it was
                                                     de facto dropped during the
                                                     negotiations




                                        vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background. Albania’s macroeconomic indicators and medium-to-long term
outlook for economic growth conveyed a clear message: the high economic growth rates
experienced in the last decade were unlikely to be sustained in the absence of deeper
reforms to attract investment and foster exports. Remittances and informal activities -
which had represented the most dynamic drivers of economic growth in the last decade -
did not constitute the type of growth that would enable Albania’s sustainable
development. Concerns also existed about Albania’s ability to finance its current account.
Inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI) had increased in recent years, reaching 5% of
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2004, with the privatization of the last state-owned
bank. However, the sustainability of FDI trends remained to be seen, and in the eyes of
foreign investors, other countries, especially those that joined the European Union (EU)
in 2004, were perceived as much more attractive than Albania.

Barriers to business entry and operations. Several constraints affected the business
sector’s ability to efficiently perform and grow in Albania. As indicated by the 2005
Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS), the most significant constraint to
business development was the unfair competition faced from those businesses that did not
comply with the legal and regulatory framework or/and were favored by politicians.
Unfair practices arose to a large extent from the significant size of the informal sector
which a variety of estimates placed at 40 to 45 percent of the official GDP. Not
surprisingly, with regard to the competitiveness of the economy, in 2005 Albania ranked
only 100th among 116 countries, lagging behind all European countries.

The 2005 ARCS provided indications on the constraints affecting business entry and
operations and their severity. The most problematic ones were: anti-competitive practices
(79%), electricity (70%), tax rates (72%), corruption (69%), macroeconomic instability
(68%), economic and regulatory policy uncertainty (59%), and information on laws and
regulations (53%). Unfair practices were the result of a number of factors. These
included: the inability of the public sector to facilitate entry and operations of businesses
in the formal economy (through business-friendly regulations able to reduce compliance
cost for formal, businesses and increase attractiveness of the formal economy) and
ineffectiveness of public sector policies and institutions to create a level playing field for
investment and combat informal/illegal activities.

Unnecessary administrative rules and procedures created obstacles to entry into markets
and discouraged growth of foreign investors and local entrepreneurs. The business
licensing regime offered - among many - a clear example of difficulties affecting
business entry. In Albania at the time about 30 institutions were involved in the issuance
and administration of over 120 licenses, permits, authorizations, certificates or consents
which were regulated under different laws, decrees, guidelines, regulations and

                                              1
instructions issued by different ministries and government entities. Such a complex legal
and regulatory framework together with poor access of business to information
represented a significant barrier to entry. It: (i) created confusion and uncertainty for
businesses trying to determine the specific requirements for each sector of activity; (ii)
significantly increased their compliance costs, thus opening opportunities for corruption;
(iii) determined inconsistent and discretionary application of the rule of law by the
government officials (favored by the business sector’s poor access to information); (iv)
created incentives for informality; and ultimately, (v) resulted in the competitive
disadvantage that businesses faced versus informal/illegal/not-compliant businesses.

Albania’s institutional capacity to identify and properly address barriers to entry and to
promote healthy market competition in the formal economy was also weak. Despite the
establishment of a Competition Authority (CA), and the enactment of EU-oriented
competition legislation, Albania still lacked a competition culture at all the levels of the
economy, including the policy makers, the general public, and business community. The
lack of competition culture - which was considered the most pervasive competition
problem in the region - negatively affected the ability of relevant authorities to enforce
legislation on competition and advocate for regulatory and, more in general, economic
reforms, based on competition principles.

Enterprises capability to export. In Albania the process of trade liberalization had not
been supported by a parallel development of public sector institutions able to facilitate
domestic enterprises in competing more efficiently in domestic and international markets.
Thus, while Albania benefited from a preferential access to EU markets, the Albanian
Metrology, Standards, Testing, Quality accreditation (MSTQ) system was still far from
being in line with EU standards and unable to support competitiveness of the business
sector in domestic and foreign markets. Tests to verify conformity of traded goods with
technical regulations were not properly done and did not meet recognized standards. Thus,
the market was flooded with low quality and unsafe goods, imports could not be checked,
and fees charged for technical inspections were considered as an additional national tax.
Standards were outdated and not in line with EU norms; the vast majority of state-owned
laboratory facilities were obsolete and unable to meet the industry’s demand for
metrology and testing services. Consequently, enterprises did not have appropriate
means to control the quality of imported goods or to certify that the quality of their
exported goods met EU standards. In addition, in the absence of a functioning
certification system, the enterprise sector had few incentives and opportunities to improve
the quality of products both for the domestic and foreign markets. Furthermore, the role
and functions of the MSTQ institutions were poorly known by both consumers and the
industry, and each institution operated independently without a clear vision for the
medium term development of the MSTQ system and without taking into consideration
needs of the Albania’s economy/industry.

Country strategy. The new Government - which took office in September 2005 - had
shown a strong commitment to attract investments and foster exports, and strengthen
policy design and program planning. With support from the donor community and the
Bank, several programs were underway to improve functioning of the energy market, tax

                                             2
administration and to fight corruption. The Government had been and remained
committed to address unfair practices and regulatory policy uncertainty, and improve
access to, information on business regulations. In this regard, following the Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) recommendations, the Government had taken a
range of steps to establish a better institutional infrastructure to support regulatory reform.
By Order of the Council of Minister (number 170, 31 October 2005), the Government
established a Regulatory Reform Task Force chaired by the Prime Minister for the
formulation and monitoring of regulatory reform plans. The Prime Minister (PM) had
given the Minister of Economy, Trade and Energy (METE) the mandate to implement
these regulatory reforms. In doing this, METE was to be supported by the existing
Department of Market Policies (DMP) of the METE - which was to be further
strengthened by additional staff working full-time on regulatory reforms.

Rational for Bank assistance. Through the careful combination of complementary
investment and policy-based operations, the Bank was well-placed to provide a
comprehensive program to support improvements in the business environment. The
Business Environment Reform and Institutional Strengthening (BERIS) project was to
assist the Government in attracting investment and fostering exports. It was to be
supported by a parallel operation, the three-year Development Policy Loan (DPL)
planned for FY07 to support medium-term policy and structural reforms to strengthen
governance, sustain private sector-led growth and improve public service delivery.
BERIS was also to be a part of a package of closely linked operations, such as for land
management and accounting/auditing work, aimed at fostering a business environment
conducive for private sector growth. The Bank’s involvement in the sector was expected
to help mobilize the support of the donor community, and contribute to better policy
decision-making, institutional capacity and implementation processes. Finally, the
Bank’s experience in other countries was expected to help the Government in designing a
coherent reform program

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The overall objective of the BERIS was to assist the Government in: (i) facilitating
business entry and operations in the formal economy; and (ii) strengthening the enterprise
sector’s capability to increase exports towards regional and EU markets.

Expected project outcomes were to include reduced costs, time and steps for businesses
to comply with regulations affecting business entry and operations. Key results indicators
were: (i) number of regulatory regimes reviewed and streamlined; (ii) reduced time and
costs on meeting regulatory requirements (as measured by ARCS/Doing Business); (iii)
number of officials trained in Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) and other regulatory
quality techniques; (iv) number of workshops organized by the Government to discuss
business environment reforms with relevant stakeholders; and (v) number of calibration
services provided.




                                              3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Some key indicators and some outcome targets were revised
with the approval of the Bank management.

Some key indicators were revised to measure the originally expected project outcomes
more accurately (“corrective restructuring”). The “cost, time and steps for business to
comply with business regulations affecting business entry and operations” indicators
were replaced by “level of business satisfaction with quality of regulation” (1=very
satisfied; 6=very unsatisfied) and “% of senior manager time dealing with state
administration” (based on the ARCS data) in the January 2010 restructuring approved by
the Bank management. Specific targets were established for the new indicators (no
targets were available for the original indicators). The target for “number of calibration
services provided”, measuring the use of the MSTQ services by the enterprise sector, was
increased from original 50 to 450 in January 2010 (by the original closing date of January
15, 2011) and to 400 in January 2012 by the final closing date of June 2012 (or 800 at the
end of 2012) to reflect the improved capacity of the GDM’s existing laboratories. A new
key indicator – “number of inspection agencies” with a baseline of 33 and target of <20
(30%) – was added in the restructuring approved by Bank management in January 2012
to measure the additional project activities supporting inspections reform and institutional
strengthening (“adaptive restructuring”). These changes were within the original PDO. 1

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries were domestic and foreign businesses that were expected to
benefit from streamlined business regulations and access to information on business
regulations, as well as from availability of improved MSTQ infrastructure. The direct
project beneficiaries included public sector institutions involved in drafting business
regulations and delivering public services (MSTQ institutions, Competition Policy Unit,
CPU, DMP, etc.) for businesses. In addition, consumer protection and business
associations, although non-direct project beneficiaries, were expected to continue to be
involved during project implementation.

1.5 Original Components

(i) Facilitating business entry and operations (Euro 1.70 million). This component
aimed at addressing the Government’s weak capacity to establish and implement business
friendly and pro-competitive regulatory regimes. As a result of the project, the


1
  The other indicators referred to in Section 1.2 were component level indicators. The “number of
regulatory regimes reviewed and streamlined” was dropped through the restructuring approved in January
2010 because it was unclear based on the PAD what it means. The target for the “number of officials
trained in RIA and other regulatory quality techniques” was reduced from 325 in 2010 to eventually 90 in
June 2012 through the restructuring approved in January 2012 because the training approach changed from
training trainees to training trainers.

                                                   4
Government was to have in place well-functioning mechanisms for systematically
assessing and improving the business environment and the CPU would have developed
capacity for assessing impact of regulations on market competition by:

(a) Improving quality of regulations affecting business entry and operations (Euro
1.42 million). This sub-component - which had been designed with FIAS support – was
to assist in strengthening the institutional framework and capacities necessary to improve
in a systematic manner the quality of regulations affecting business activity. This was to
be done by: (a) building regulatory capacities and a regulatory management system in
line-ministry and at the central level; (b) developing the capacity to improve the quality
of new regulations, through the RIA, public consultation and complementary methods;
(c) upgrading the quality of existing regulations partially via targeted reviews of
regulation in selected areas/industries, and partially via improving the access to business-
related laws and regulations in Albania; (d) developing and implementing a monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system for regulatory reforms.; and (e) undertaking small business
surveys and two ARCSs to assess outcomes of the component.

(b) Strengthening, the institutional capacity to draft business regulations enabling
healthy market competition (Euro 0.28 million). This sub-component aimed at
addressing the lack of healthy market competition by strengthening the capacity of the
CPU of the METE to assess impact of regulations on market competition.

(ii) Strengthening the enterprise sector’s capability to export to regional and EU
markets: Strengthening the MSTQ system (Euro 5.67 million 2 ). This component
aimed at addressing the enterprise sector’s difficulties in competing in domestic and
foreign markets due to poor national MSTQ infrastructure and services. As a result of the
project, the General Directorate of Metrology and Calibration (GDMC), General
Directorate of Standardization (DPS) and Directorate of Accreditation (DA) would have
acquired the ability to deliver EU-compatible MSTQ services to meet business sector
needs. This was to be achieved by: (a) assisting in drafting and implementing a
comprehensive medium-term strategy, including reviewing the institutional and
legislative framework, to bring each of the MSTQ institutions closer to EU requirements
and to meet industry’s needs; (b) increasing the business sector awareness of the
challenges and opportunities of competing in EU markets; (c) strengthening the capacity
of the GDMC, including modernizing the metrology infrastructure and, in particular,
construction of a modem metrology laboratory, to perform basic measurements and
calibrations services; (d) strengthening the capacity of the DPS by helping translate and
adopt the pool of EU standards and making them electronically available to users.; and
(e) strengthening the capacity of the DA by helping develop a pool of experts to carry out
assessments of laboratories and personnel.




2
  Metrology Euro 5.06 million; Standardization Euro 0.15 million; Accreditation Euro 0.2 million; and
Inter-institutional activities Euro 0.255 million.


                                                 5
(iii) Project Coordination Support (Euro 0.23 million). This component aimed at
ensuring proper implementation and coordination of the project activities, including
support for financial management, procurement, M&E requirements. It was also to
support organization of periodic business surveys, integrated public information
campaigns for the MSTQ system and competition policy, and building of a more
effective public-private sector dialogue on reforms. The component was also to assist in
the dissemination of progress made by the Government in improving the business
environment among the business community, policy makers and other relevant
stakeholders. As a result of the project, METE would have acquired the capacity for
monitoring and evaluating progress in improving the business environment and
implementing effective consultation with the business sector.

1.6 Revised Components

The facilitating business entry and operations component was revised: (i) by adding a
new activity under the sub-component (a) called “establishing an institutional and legal
framework for inspections reform” to advance the inspection reform designed and
launched under the project and to strengthen the project impact (estimated cost Euro
200,000); (ii) by substituting the ARCS with small business surveys due to project
implementation delays and lack of time to carry out the ARCS and removing it as a dated
covenant (reference to ARCS was removed from the following PDO indicators: “business
satisfaction with quality of regulation” and “% of senior manager time dealing with state
administration”); and (iii) by retroactively cancelling the sub-component (i) (b) because it
was de facto cancelled during the negotiations and METE did not anticipate to need the
funds and removing reference to the intermediate result related to the CPU.

In addition, it should be noted that the MSTQ component was not revised, but the targets
for “number of kind of measurements in which GDMC is able to provide calibration
services” were reduced from 50 as of January 2010 when it was introduced to 30 in
January 2012. 3 This indicator measured the improved capacity of both GDM’s existing
labs and new metrology lab. Because construction of the metrology lab and procurement
of equipment for the existing laboratories experienced delays and procurement of some
equipment was cancelled due to overall delays, the target had to be reduced to measure
only the improved capacity of the GDM’s existing labs (see Section 2.2).

1.7 Other significant changes

The closing date of the project was extended for 18 months in total with the approval of
the Bank management. The extension of the closing date from January 15, 2011 to
January 15, 2012 was required to complete the construction of the metrology laboratory
that was delayed due to initial effectiveness delay, long preparation of the MSTQ strategy,
change of the construction site and procurement delays (see Section 2.2). The second
extension to June 30, 2012 was required to compensate for further construction delays. It


3
  These changes were approved in restructurings approved by Bank management on January 28, 2010 and
January 11, 2012.

                                                6
also allowed provision of additional support to advance the inspections reform (see
paragraph 1.6).

There were no other significant changes in the design, scope or scale 4.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation: The project took into consideration a number of lessons that
affected implementation and outcomes positively, as follows:

     •   Reforms were championed at the highest level of government. In this context,
         the Task Force for Regulatory Reform chaired by the Prime Minister and
         including a number of relevant ministries and various working groups in
         METE/DMP chaired by ministers was engaged in the regulatory reforms. The
         DMP was given a clear mandate to account for cross-ministerial coordination of
         regulatory reform and regulatory quality enhancement. The project built the
         institutional capacity within METE/DMP and other line-ministries to assure the
         quality of new regulations and streamline regulatory requirements to high impact
         areas, such as licensing and inspections by using properly adapted regulatory
         tools, such as the RIA.
     •   The engagement of the private sector and civil society was a major driver for
         change. The project design emphasized stakeholder participation and extensive
         consultation with private sector players.
     •   It was perceived that successful reforms require comprehensive, gradual and a
         continued approach. The BERIS was designed to assist the Government in
         building the capacity for business environment reforms able to prioritize and
         sequence reform interventions, and to achieve sustainable results.
     •   Another important lesson that was incorporated into the project was the
         establishment of an M&E system. The M&E system increased transparency in
         the use of public resources and Government’s accountability for reforms, and
         improving the public-private sector dialogue on reforms.
     •   BERIS was designed to overcome poor governance of public sector institutions
         that delays implementation of reforms, reduces sustainability of outcomes and
         weakens enforcement capacity. By addressing the four principles of the
         Governance Filter introduced by the CAS, BERIS emphasized the importance of


4
  Minor changes included reallocation of Loan funds in the amount of Euro 88,000 and of Credit funds in
the amount of SD 201,000 from Consultants, Goods Categories and Unallocated Categories to Works
Category for financing the increased (unforeseen and underestimated) costs of construction of the
metrology laboratory under the component (ii) (the contract value was increased from Albanian Lek 393
million to Albanian Lek 445 million.. The reallocation was made possible by savings gained from
consolidating activities under one large contract under the component (i) (a), reducing the scope of M&E
activities under this contract during implementation, cancellation of the component (i) (b) and availability
of some unallocated funds under the components (i) and (iii).

                                                     7
        devoting continued attention to governance issues in project design and
        implementation.
    •   Implementation of investment operations benefits from clear links and
        complementarities with other Bank-financed operations, including policy-based
        lending. BERIS created synergies with other Bank-funded projects (e.g., land
        management project, accounting and auditing work), the DPL and FIAS
        activities. BERIS ensured that adequate resources were available to help
        implement some policy conditionality in case of delays of linked policy based
        loans and reforms.

Project design. The PDOs were clear and important for the country and the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and responded to the Borrower’s development needs. It
should be noted that this was the first Bank funded project in Albania that was to be
implemented without a stand-alone project implementation unit (PIU). The implementing
ministry was considered having sufficient capacity for managing the project although,
initially, the lack of capacity slowed down the implementation. To mitigate this risk, the
project allocated resources for some external consultants for fiduciary activities. In spite
of the initial impact on implementation, the implementation of the project by the ministry
demonstrated the commitment to and ownership of the project by the Government. With
regards to risks, the PAD also identified a number of valid risks. However, the risk that
the construction of the metrology laboratory could be exposed to delays was not
mentioned in the PAD even though the design included TA as mitigation measure to
ensure expeditious completion of construction.

There was no “Quality at Entry” review carried out for this Project.

2.2 Implementation

Factors outside the control of the government and implementation agencies

Weather conditions and unforeseen technical difficulties. Adverse weather conditions
(snow) and unanticipated work on the new site during the excavation period in the spring
of 2011 delayed the construction of the metrology lab – the main investment of the
project – for a couple of months (see below a paragraph on implementation delays).
Procurement of some equipment for the lab had to be postponed and procurement of
some equipment was eventually cancelled due to overall delays. Due to that, the targets
for measuring the number of kind of measurements provided by GDM to the business
sector were reduced.

Factors generally subject to government

Even though all the technical aspects and the drafting of the decree on light RIA were
completed on time and without any major issue, the adoption of this legal piece is
pending by the Government since May 2011. This is related to the decision that the Prime
Minister should take about whether to place the RIA authority within METE or close to
the Prime Minister office. The Decree is not measured in the project targets, but failure to

                                             8
swiftly adopt this other crucial piece of legislation undermines the sustainability of the
results. The Decree would enable the institutionalization of the light RIA introduced
under the project and the endorsement of subsequent actions, as well as lead to
improvement in the drafting of legal and sub-legal acts and to a new format for the
explanatory memorandum accompanying proposed legislation.

The Government’s decision in mid-2007 to change the site for the new metrology lab to a
more convenient location delayed the launch of project activities by over one year, but
led to more sustainable outcomes and efficiency gains. In retrospect, it is understandable
that such a building was delayed. It was not a normal industrial, residential, or office-
type building, but a unique one requiring an appropriate location and strict technical
specifications. The land initially selected was located in a busy part of Tirana, subject to
noise and vibration. The new site for the metrology building was located in a non-
residential area outside Tirana, and had a surface which was twice as large as that of the
plot previously identified. Unlike the originally identified site, this new parcel of land did
not require demolishing any existing buildings.

Appointment of key staff. The head of the implementing unit in METE was changed
three times during the life of the project. The lack of continuity and part time
involvement in the project may have contributed to delays in project implementation.

Factors generally subject implementation agency control

Management effectiveness. At the beginning, there were difficulties in ensuring
efficiency of procurement work and coordination of project activities between the METE
and the MSTQ agencies because of METE’s internal procedures and change of project
coordinators (see above). This delayed processing of procurement documents and
purchasing of goods and services.

Based on the issues mentioned above, the likelihood of achieving the PDO and
implementation progress was rated moderately unsatisfactory in years 2010-2012.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The original PDO indicators for facilitating business entry and operations,
as measured by ARCS/Doing Business surveys, (“reduced cost, time and steps businesses
to comply with business regulations affecting business entry and operations”) were
dropped in the restructuring dated January 2010 because it was deemed better to measure
the PDO with other proxy indicators that more directly measure the project activities (“%
of senior management time dealing with statement administration” and “business
satisfaction with the quality of regulation” 5). These proxy indicators were to indirectly




5
    Based on ARCS surveys and then, based on the 2012 restructuring, based on small business surveys.


                                                     9
indicate changes in business entry and operations. The original result framework lacked a
PDO indicator for measuring strengthened enterprise sector’s capability for exports.
Therefore, in the same restructuring of January 2010, a component indicator “number of
calibration services provided” was moved to the PDO level to measure use of MSTQ
services and to serve as a proxy of strengthened enterprise sector’s capability for exports.
This indicator measured the use of GDMS’ calibration services by enterprises that, based
on using the services, could certify that the quality of enterprises’ products meet EU
standards. “Number of calibration services” measured the performance of the
laboratories of the GDM. The result framework was appropriately adopted in January
2012 to measure the advances in inspections reform.

The project included a number of component outcome indicators related to the MSTQ
component a few of which remained and many others were refined to be more accurate.
The Doing Business indicators on the component level were dropped because they did
not directly reflect the project activities. Three new indicators were added to fully
measure the project activities (“number of RIA pilots carried out”, “number of fields in
which GDM is able to provide calibration services”, “% adopted standards made
available electronically”). The revised indicators provided a fuller picture of project
results except that, due to the delays, the final result framework did not capture the
completion of the new metrology laboratory because its operations were launched after
project closure.

M&E implementation. An M&E system was initiated at the start of the project, and the
services of an international consultant were obtained to provide advisory services.
During the initial stages of the project, M&E mainly focused on project inputs, such as
recruitment of consultants and procurement issues. As the project gathered momentum,
the focus of M&E shifted to project outputs, and achievements in relation to targets
specified in the Results Framework agreed with the World Bank. The advisor facilitated
establishing a system in METE to collect data on the project performance indicators from
the implementing agencies. In the last year, a Public Administration Survey was
conducted to assess the outcomes and impact of the project from the perspective of the
final beneficiaries.

Given the crucial role the Metrology building was to play in the MSTQ system, the
urgency of setting up a Critical Path Analysis (CPA), was stressed throughout the M&E
consultancy. A CPA was adopted for the civil works relating to the new metrology
building, and was updated monthly.

M&E utilization. The Government had assigned high priority to the effective and
efficient management of the BERIS Project. Project management within METE was
carried out by a Review Committee specially appointed for this purpose. This committee
was headed by the Advisor to the Minister, who was also the Coordinator of the MSTQ
component of the BERIS Project, and included specialists within METE in charge of
regular project monitoring, procurement and financial management. The management
team was provided project monitoring data generated by the M&E system.



                                            10
Through the above mentioned consultancy, M&E capacity has been enhanced at METE,
with special attention to: (i) the acceptance of the M&E function as a ten-step process
covering readiness assessments and agreement targets to impact assessments and long-
term sustainability of the M&E function; (ii) data gathering with the use of appropriate
formats and questionnaires for monitoring of results; (iii) the use of the monitoring-
feedback-control-decisions-making loop in steering the project through site meetings and
monthly progress reviews; (iv) the use of beneficiary assessments such as the Public
Administration Survey, and the Business Survey to assess project impact; and (v) The use
of Critical Path Analysis to monitor important and complex components of projects. The
experienced gained and M&E capacity developed during the life of the project will stand
in good stead for the implementation of future projects by METE.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Environmental Category under the MSTQ system component was rated as “B”. The
project financed: (i) metrology equipment; and (ii) the civil works for the construction of
the new metrology laboratory for the GDMC. There were no issues in compliance with
environmental safeguards. The metrology equipment purchased for the project had no
adverse environmental impact; the equipment was considered “clean”, with no potential
air or water emissions or waste products. The metrology facility which was built was
provided with modem environmental control devices. In compliance with Bank
requirements, the GDMC prepared and disclosed a basic Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) describing the standards to be followed for the construction of the metrology
laboratory. The project did not finance any land acquisition and no land was
expropriated.

The project did not entail any social risk or risk of adverse social impact. On the contrary,
by increasing accountability of the government institutions dealing with the business
sector, and improving transparency and efficiency of the government-to-business/final
consumer relationship, the project contributed to improved public perception of the
government institutions. The business community and the consumer association – which
have also played a significant role in identifying the areas of the business environment
requiring project attention - continued their involvement in project implementation.

The financial management of the project was assessed as “Moderately Satisfactory” due
to delays experienced in processing payments and providing counterpart funds. It had
been anticipated at appraisal, that the Single Treasury System would have been
developed and disseminated to budgetary organizations including METE, and would be
used for financial management and financial reporting aspects of the project. Due to
delays in the implementation and dissemination of the system, the PMU maintained a
parallel system in excel spreadsheets for project accounting and financial reporting.
Although the Single Treasury System was implemented, there were still significant
delays in the processing of payments mainstreamed (mainly those related to IDA credit)
through the System. As a result, the Designated Account (DA-A) for IBRD Loan was
inactive for more than 2 years and payments from the IBRD loan was done using direct
payments and special commitments. There were no outstanding audit reports for the

                                             11
Project and all audit reports were found satisfactory to the Bank. Quarterly interim
unaudited financial reports (IFRs) were submitted periodically to the Bank. The project
audits received “unqualified” opinions of the audited financial statements and no major
systems and control issues were identified by the auditors during the course of the audit.

No major procurement issues were encountered.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project achieved most of its objectives and key elements for project sustainability are
in place. The consolidation of key institutions/processes has been achieved (RIA,
General Inspectorate, and Business Registry). The RIA (once the legislation is approved)
is expected to be used for all new legislation considered by the Government and the
Business Registry is already in use and has provided a valuable tool for the private sector.
In addition, the Government’s commitment to EU integration and the additional technical
assistance to be provided through the EU Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA) provide a
good reassurance for the sustainability of this Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective, design and implementation of the project are highly relevant to Albania’s
and the World Bank’s development objectives. The World Bank Group continues to play
an important role in Albania with assistance in this area. The latest CPS focuses on three
strategic objectives, one being support to recovery in Albania’s growth rates through
improving the business climate, through regulatory and institutional reforms to boost
competitiveness and investments. One area in which concrete progress is observable
concerns the legal and regulatory framework for business, which has been substantially
overhauled and modernized (CPS Progress Review). The National Strategy for
Development and Integration (which progress review is underway) also considers this
(business environment) where a big improvement has been achieved, but that continues
to remain an important objective for the mid-term strategy.

Project interventions to improve business environment are highly relevant. The new
Inspections Law contributes to improving the business climate as it is the basis for
streamlining the inspections regime to facilitate business operations. The Electronic
Business Legislation Registry contributes to the same since it has improved access to and
transparency about all business regulatory acts. The pending RIA Decree that was based
on project work would institutionalize the light RIA for all business legislation.

Project interventions to improve provision of internationally compatible MSTQ services
are likewise highly relevant for improving the enterprise sector’s competitiveness and
exports. The project-financed strategy for the integrated development of the MSTQ
system continues to provide a medium-term strategy for facilitating integration with the
EU and for institutional development of the project beneficiary agencies. To

                                            12
accommodate the growth in calibration services provided by the GDM, the project targets
for calibration services were increased in a restructuring (the targets for other MSTQ
agencies were also increased). On the other hand, the number of kind of measurements in
which the GDM is able to provide calibration services needed to be reduced to a more
realistic level because some equipment procurement was cancelled due to the risk of
further delays and because construction of the new lab was delayed (see 2.2.). It was
deemed not desirable to further extend the closing date of the project because with the
completion of the new GDM lab the outcomes were known to materialize and because
the project beneficiary agencies had access to financing equipment on EU funds.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project facilitated business entry and operations in the formal economy and
strengthened the enterprise sector’s capability to increase exports towards regional and
EU markets to a substantial extent, as measured in terms of meeting the revised project
targets. The targets for “business satisfaction with quality of regulation”, “volume of use
of MSTQ services, measured as number of calibration services provided” (as a proxy for
enterprise sector’s increased capacity for exports) and “number of inspection agencies”
were achieved. Lack of survey data on reduced “senior management time with dealing
with state administration” remained a shortcoming in the assessment.

As a result of the project, there is a greater ease of doing business in Albania. Private
entrepreneurs are now benefiting from a vastly streamlined set of business processes in
that they have a lesser number of approvals to get through in starting investments and
production (number of inspection agencies down to 12 from 33). The technical expertise
provided under the project has been instrumental in enhancing the skill levels of public
officials responsible for policy formulation and implementation of laws and regulations
affecting private entrepreneurs. The advisory services provided have instilled a new
mind-set to dealing with the business environment – transforming it from one of
“regulation” to “facilitation”. This change has contributed to a major improvement of
business environment for private entrepreneurs engaged in production and exports.

At the same time, the greater ease of doing business was complemented by a major
upgrading of Albania’s MSTQ system to ensure that the quality standards of goods
produced conform to EU standards. The project-financed strategy for the integrated
development of the MSTQ system should help the relevant authorities consolidate and
take reforms beyond the project’s achievements. The technical assistance provided and
the financing of needed investments have begun to benefit the private sector in regard to
product standards and quality assurance. The agencies involved in project
implementation also benefitted from the project, through enhanced knowledge of systems
and procedures relating to project management, monitoring and evaluation.

The contribution and accomplishments of the project are summarized below and detailed
in Annex 2.




                                            13
Objective 1: Facilitation of Business Entry and Operations

The objective of facilitating business entry and operations was achieved to a substantial
extent.

Improved business satisfaction with quality of regulations. Business satisfaction with
quality of regulations improved from 3.3 in 2005 to the targeted 2.5 in mid-2012]. 6
According to the public administration survey carried out on project funds among 150
public servants and executives of 601 non-agricultural private businesses located
throughout Albania and operating in manufacture, commerce, services and construction 7,
the regulatory reforms planned by the Government in 2006 have clearly had an effect
both in terms of perception by the business community and impact on that community.
Below are the results of the public administration survey about business satisfaction with
the quality of regulation as well as with some other aspects of the business environment:

    (a) General obstacles showed a marked improvement in most areas. The largest
        improvement was in electricity supply; from 70% in 2004 calling it a significant
        obstacle, the percentage had dropped to 41% in 2012. There was also a large
        decline in the perception of tax rates as a serious obstacle, although it was still
        mentioned by a majority of respondents (51% in the current survey compared to
        72% in 2004). Other areas seen as problematic in 2004 that showed large
        improvement were corruption, macro-economic stability and anti-competitive
        practices. Perceived problems of crime, theft and disorder were ranked about
        the same in both years, but in each case, by under 40% of the respondents.

    (b) Regarding administrative obstacles, 70% reported that they were satisfied or
        very satisfied with the bureaucratic behaviour of the public authorities, and
        almost as high a percentage reported that that the Albanian government was
        efficient in delivering services. In the areas of registration and re-registration
        procedures, the positive effect of the National Registration Centre appears
        visible; answers of respondents in the area of licensing do not show a significant
        change, negatively or positively, a not unexpected result from the National
        Licensing Centre’s shorter period of operation. Here, too, a majority of
        respondents reported satisfaction with the quality of services received.

    (c) Although a majority of businesses reported having been subjected to at least one
        inspection by a state agency in the 12 months prior to the survey, the proportion
        was considerably lower than the one observed for the survey conducted in 2004
        when virtually all businesses had been inspected at least once in the year before
        the survey. In view of a reduction of inspections since 2007 and the plan for
        further simplification through the new law passed a year ago, this area warrants


6
  1 = very satisfied; 6 = very dissatisfied
7
  1 = very satisfied; 6 = very dissatisfied. The surveys assessed the impact of recent legal and regulatory
reforms upon service levels performed by public institutions, including the impact of RIA. Over 150 public
servants were interviewed.

                                                    14
       further periodic checking. As to disputes arising out of inspections, the three
       authorities with the highest number of disputes in the 2004 survey (police, fiscal
       authorities and the electrical corporation, the latter being a private company since
       2009) continue in that position.

   (d) About a tenth of the respondents in this survey were exporters and a fifth
       reported being engaged in import transactions. A large majority of import
       companies reported satisfaction with the service quality of the customs
       administration.

Reduced % of senior manager time dealing with state administration. The project
did not carry out a survey on the impact of the project on reducing senior management
time dealing with state administration because the surveys carried out covered in general
many aspects of business satisfaction with the regulation. Doing a survey only for this
specific question was not considered to be economically effective.

Reduced the number of inspections agencies. The inspection system reform was one of
the priorities of the Government of Albania under the Regulatory Reform agenda that the
project supported. The project helped establish an institutional and legal framework for
inspections reform. The Inspection Law was passed on June 16, 2011, and the Central
Inspectorate was established in September 2011. Based on the Law, the number of
inspectorates was consolidated from 33 to the targeted 12. The consolidation process has
already started and will continue throughout 2013.

Implemented the RIA program. The project helped implement the RIA program in a
systematic manner, applied it to selected legislation (3 pilots), and developed the capacity
of METE and a group of government officials for improving the quality of regulations.
This was achieved first by a series of reports on RIA and second through awareness-
raising and training activities and seeking feedback from key stakeholders. The
institutionalization of the light RIA and its application on all legislation is pending
adoption of the Decree instituting the RIA system since March 2011 (see Section 2.2).

Initially, the design of the RIA light system was coordinated by the Department of Trade
Policy (DTP) of METE, and it was responsible for its monitoring and evaluation until
June 2010. Thereafter, the coordination of the RIA light system was transferred to the
Department of Regulatory Reform (DRR) within METE. Both DTP and DRR have
demonstrated the capacity to monitor the outputs of the RIA system, which included: (i)
training programs of public officials in RIA, which to date has produced 42 trained
officials; (ii) involvement of 23 of these 42 participants in the preparation of the three
RIA pilots (see below); (iii) promoting the implementation of the light RIA with two
workshops in the last quarter of 2011 with the participation of 95 directors and heads of
legal and policy departments from all line ministries, leaders of independent institutions
and business people, as well as 20 deputy ministers and general secretaries of line
ministries; (iv) RIA pilots in which officials participated in the drafting of two Albanian
laws: (a) “The Veterinary Service in Albania”; (b) “Law on Environmental Protection”;
and (c) the Inspection Law.

                                            15
The main impacts of the implemented RIA system include: (i) enhanced skills of
government officials in drafting new laws and regulations; (ii) benefits to private
entrepreneurs in terms of more appropriate laws; and (iii) greater public awareness of
new and existing laws through the Electronic Business Legislation Registry. 8 In addition,
the Government has successfully introduced some key principles relating to the quality of
regulations through a process of regulatory reform. Of these the most important were: (i)
periodic public consultation; (ii) accountability of the state administration; (iii)
consistency of new legislation; and (iv) transparency. In this regard, the RIA has been a
very useful tool that has helped Albania policy makers and officials to improve the
understanding of economic and social impacts of regulation, assess trade-offs between
alternative regulations, and identify the most suitable ones.

Establishment of the Electronic Business Legislation Registry: Greater transparency
has also been provided through the setting up of the Electronic Business Legislation
Registry. The business community and the public are greatly benefiting from the business
electronic registry (http://www.rlb.gov.al/) as it provides the following services and
advantages among others:

• The portal offers both to the business community and public unlimited, easy, quick,
  and free access of all business regulatory acts. With the portal, users can down-load,
  copy and print anywhere the regulatory acts they are interested in.
• In the portal users access in a single and concentrated library the complete legislation
  (vertical, horizontal, primary, etc.) that is directly linked to doing business of all
  sectors and services in Albania.
• The portal ensures that users can get automatically all the updated regulatory acts
  based on the activity or the institution chosen by the user.
• The business electronic registry is equipped with a search engine that allows users to
  quickly obtain the desired results. In addition, users can acquire regulatory acts based
  on institutions or the field of activities.
• Within the portal, the business community can find various economic/financial
  announcements of public institutions.

METE has received positive feedback from business community on the services
electronic registry offers in assisting businesses operations.




8
 These impacts were also monitored by the DTP and DRR, supported by reports by relevant institutions,
self-assessments by relevant officials, business surveys, and the IFC/World Bank Doing Business Surveys.




                                                  16
Objective 2: Strengthening the Enterprise Sector’s Capability to Export to
Regional and EU Markets

The project achieved its objective of strengthening the enterprise sector’s capability to
export by improving the MSTQ institutions’ capacity for delivering EU-compatible
services to a high extent. :

Completion of a Medium-Term Strategy in 2008 (updated in 2011) to Establish an
Internationally Recognized MSTQ System. Prior to project effectiveness, the
equipment and training that had been provided within EU CARDS 2003 could not be
used effectively due to lack of clear objectives, strategy, policies, vision and of an action
plan for the operation of the GDM. The project financed preparation of the
comprehensive Medium Term Strategy on Quality Infrastructure (including metrology,
accreditation and standardization), which foresees an investment plan, assessment of
economic impact of new investments, a detailed action plan for implementation, as well
as revisions of the institutional and legislative framework, to bring each of the MSTQ
institutions closer to EU requirements by 2022 and to meet industry needs. It will guide
the Government in using the donor financing going forward. If properly implemented, the
MSTQ strategy will have considerable impact on the development of Albania (export
competitiveness of products, removal of technical barriers to imports, domestic consumer
safety, protection of health and the environment). 9

Increased use of MSTQ Services by Enterprises to Increase Export Capability. The
GDM has increased capacity for providing more calibration services, as demonstrated by
the increase of calibration services provided to the enterprise sector from 26 in 2006 to
806, as of December 2012. This was made possible by the new equipment provided under
the project and also the contributions from the EU IPA program. The use of calibration
services is contributing to increase sales of the enterprises’ products in export markets.
Furthermore, under the auspices of the project, legal metrology was reorganized by
consolidation of branch and district offices leading to the establishment of four regional
centers, which were equipped with mobile measurement units, making it possible to reach
a far larger number of customers. Capacity building in the GDM has benefited from the
services of the Long-Term Advisor and from the collaboration with the Czech Metrology
Institute funded under the project.

Increased capability of the GDM to Provide Different Kind of Measurements. The
GDM has increased the number of kind of measurements in which it is able to provide
calibration services from 4 in 2006 to 30 in December 2012. Because of the broader
range of services that the GDM is able to provide more type of enterprises with a broader


9
  International recognition of the tests done in a country is based on many factors, including the existing of
testing facilities; calibration facilities to calibrate the testing equipment used; national reference
measurement standards, so that all the measurements done in that country use the same references; up-to-
date and internationally compatible technical regulations; up-to-date and internationally compatible
technical regulations; up-to-date and internationally compatible standards necessary for tests and technical
regulations; internationally compatible accreditation system in order to accredit calibration and testing
laboratories, certification, inspection and personnel training organizations.

                                                     17
range of products can be served by the GDM. This has widened the sectoral coverage of
the GDM’s operations and project impact. With the new laboratory operational, GDM is
able to apply for EU funding for more lab equipment to meet the needs of even a broader
range of enterprises.

A Modern Metrology Laboratory Operational. Construction of a modern metrology
laboratory was completed in June 2012, although with a delay, to provide basic
measurement and calibration services to meet the industry needs. The laboratory is fully
operational since January 2013. It has the capacity of providing a much bigger volume of
services to meet the enterprise sector’s needs. The construction of new metrology
laboratories was critical for Albania to upgrade its quality infrastructure to EU standards.
While financing was received for equipment from other donors (e.g. EU and GTZ), none
of these donors provided funding for construction works. At the same time, the purchase
of equipment and training of GDMC staff was, for the most part, conditional on the
existence of modern metrology laboratories. Because of these constraints, Albania was
not able to take full advantage of EU financing for metrology infrastructure in the past.

Internationally Compatible Standards. The Directorate of Standardization (DPS) made
available 100% of adopted EU standards electronically. Entrepreneurs are now in a
position to access their website, including information about 23,000 standards records
and download needed standards information for Albanian standards. Of them, 18,000 are
EU compatible, while the rest are either pure Albanian standards or other international
standards. In terms of impact on business facilitation, entrepreneurs are now in a position
to access the website and download needed standards information for Albanian standards.
This has eliminated the hassle of visiting the DPS premises twice (now they can do the
order online and have to visit DPS offices only to show evidence of the payment and
close their order). The public awareness campaign has also been conducted through
promotional activities such as World Standards Day (this activity was broadly followed
by the national mass media), supported by a printed catalogue of Albanian standards, the
first ever printed Annual Report (for 2010), and a number of promotional materials. The
EU has commended the work of the DPS. The EU has commended the work of the DPS.
In particular, the EU has commented that “there has been progress in the area of free
movement of goods, particularly with regard to adopting EN standards as Albanian
standards and in establishing the managing board of Standardization". The DPS is
currently an affiliate member of CEN/CENLEC (the European Organizations for
Standardization), and it plans to secure full membership by December 2012. The project
provided some important technological means for reaching the requirements of
“Condition 6” to be fulfilled for ensuring full membership.

Progress towards Internationally Compatible Accreditation System. The Directorate
of Accreditation (DA) granted accreditation services based on regulations services,
standards, and accreditation principles to 24 Conformity Assessment Bodies (CABs)
targeted. Fifty assessors/lead assessors have been trained up to standards and EA
documents, as targeted. The DA, on its own initiative has computerized the procedures
involved in the accreditation process for the benefit of CABs seeking accreditation
process. As a result of this upgrading and capacity building process in the DA, some

                                            18
foreign investors have begun to collaborate with CABs accredited by DA in connection
with the setting up of export oriented ventures. This is a significant development impact,
as it has helped improve the business environment, as perceived by private investors. The
vision of the DA is to become a signatory of a mutual recognition agreement with the
European Accreditation and EA in the field of testing laboratories, and thus achieving the
EA-MLA status.

3.3 Efficiency

The project achieved its objectives efficiently to a substantial extent. Efficiency in the
original project was based on qualitative description of benefits, including more business-
friendly regulatory environment, increased compliance of Albanian goods and services
with EU requirements and improved governance of public institutions, leading ultimately
to better public finances. The preparatory work related to the construction of the
metrology lab and the construction itself took longer than anticipated, but did not
significantly reduce the efficiency of achieving the outcomes in view of the long-term
benefits that will be gained from the project investments. Many project investments will
have long-term benefits by improving Albanian’s enterprise sector’s competitiveness
because they will be more compliant with EU requirements (i.e., impact of the MSTQ
strategy, improved MSTQ capacity); lower costs due to the creation of a more business-
friendly regulatory environment; and by improving governance of some public
institutions (i.e., DA, DPS, GDM, Electronic Business Legislation Registry, the light
RIA).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome is moderately satisfactory. The project remains highly relevant to
the country and for the World Bank’s assistance strategy aimed at boosting
competitiveness and investments and with the Government’s commitment to EU
integration that the project supported. The project achieved the targets for facilitating
business entry and operations in the formal economy and strengthening the enterprise
sector’s capability to increase exports towards regional and EU markets to a substantial
extent. Efficiency of achieving the outcomes was somewhat affected by the
implementation delays, but the long-term benefits especially those related to the greater
capacity of the new metrology laboratory to provide more services to the companies, as
well as the benefits resulting from an improved inspection regime (subject to it being
implemented fairly) overcome the negative effects of the initial delays.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening



                                            19
The project had a profound impact on the institutions that participated (METE, DA, GDS
and GDM), bringing about fundamental institutional changes and strengthening
management. In addition, under the project a Central Inspectorate was established to
oversee inspectorates in line ministries, coordinate works of various inspectorates, and
oversee the entire inspection reform. The positive aspects brought about by the project
which strengthened these institutions included capacity building, staff training and new
methods and approaches to problem solving.

In addition, through the advisory services of the M&E Consultant, METE officials
developed a better understanding that M&E was not a mechanical process of checking
results against some agreed targets, but a systematic approach to assessment of progress,
starting with monitoring of results, discussing performance with key actors, especially on
shortfalls and corrective measures, and evaluating results, in terms of the impact made by
the project. The advisory services emphasized importance of a good results-based M&E
system to measure and evaluate outcomes and feed such information back into the
ongoing processes of progress review and project management. A framework used for
this purpose was designed based on a World Bank Study entitled “Ten Steps to
Monitoring and Evaluation”.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The technical expertise provided under the project has been instrumental in enhancing the
skill levels of public officials responsible for policy formulation and implementation on
regulations affecting private entrepreneurs. The advisory services provided instilled a
new mind-set to and approaches in dealing with the business environment – transforming
it from one of “regulation” to “facilitation”. This change has contributed to a major
improvement of business environment for private entrepreneurs engaged in production
and exports

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The project funded a Public Administration Survey to assess the impact of recent legal
and regulatory reforms upon service levels performed by public institutions, including the
impact of RIA. The survey showed that the regulatory reforms planned by the
Government in 2006 have clearly had an effect both in terms of perception by the
business community and impact on that community. It was further to be emphasised that
the answers to some questions may have been a reflection of the global economic crisis,
such as, for example, reported difficulties in obtaining financing. The completed survey
was based on interviews with executives of 601 non-agricultural private businesses
located throughout Albania and operating in manufacture, commerce, services and
construction. The sample design criteria included 101 businesses operating partly or fully
with foreign capital, and 87 out of all the contacted businesses was involved in the last
two years in export/import activities. The survey was designed to cover obstacles to
business operations and growth (both general and administrative); registration and
licensing; premises, construction and infrastructure; inspections; tax administration,
import and export; disputes and conflict resolution; gifts and bribes; and crime.

                                           20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk for development outcome is considered moderate. The risks are related to the
pending adoption of the Decree to institutionalize the light RIA. The failure to swiftly
adopt this other crucial piece of legislation undermines the sustainability of the results
achieved under the project (see 2.2 and 3.2). The key investment of the project - the
metrology laboratory - is operational. Sustainability of the BERIS’s achievements has
been enhanced by the Government’s commitment to improve Albania’s business
environment and to provide EU compatible MSTQ services, as well as desire for further
EU integration.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank responded in a timely manner through the careful combination of
complementary investment and policy-based operation to support relevant improvements
in the business environment. The Bank also incorporated lessons learned in implementing
similar operations in other countries to help the Government in designing a coherent
reform program. Some lessons worked, some did not. The Bank should have paid more
attention to the time required to implement a complex, multi-component project
involving preparatory work and construction of a world class metrology laboratory and to
the lack of in-house/country capacity to manage such a project in a short period of time.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Project supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out at least twice
a year and project supervision reporting was candid and action-oriented. Project
supervision focused on development impact in a sense that the Bank team reported on
key issues candidly, discussed project performance indicators and adjusted them, as
needed, to better reflect project outcomes. The Bank team used additional experts, such
as a metrology expert to review procurement documents, and an engineer to monitor
construction of the metrology lab to facilitate better quality of supervision and better
monitoring of project implementation. The Bank was responsive to the Government’s
requests throughout Project implementation, and demonstrated flexibility and
understanding in the use of project resources. As and when required, the Bank responded
positively to the Government’s requests for project restructuring in response to external
environment and evolving country needs because of the long-term benefits of the changes
even though they led to implementation delays (i.e., change of the site of the metrology
laboratory). The initial timetable and scope of improving quality of regulations were
ambitious or unclear and needed to be adjusted to meet the country circumstances and
capacity due to the complexities of the reform (i.e., a light RIA), which was done with

                                           21
Bank input. As a result, the closing date of the project had to be extended twice. The
project M&E framework had to be adjusted later to better reflect the project results.
There were quite frequent changes in task managers (three) for this project which
impedes continuity and lead to implementation delays, as the new task managers took
time to familiarize themselves with the project. However, this was mitigated by the fact
that the most of the fiduciary staff on the Bank team that appraised this project worked on
the project through project closing and the last task manager of the project was based in
the country office and could respond to the client’s needs quickly and effectively.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank was responsive to the client’s needs from the design stage through to
project closing with close supervision and excellent support from the country office.
Based on the above the overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality
of supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The Government worked
closely with the Bank throughout project preparation, and negotiations. However, there
were some lapses by the Borrower during implementation, especially at the inception that
led to delays. Delays in making the project effective, finalizing the land for the
metrology building and delays in providing counterpart funding and passage on the
Government Decree on the RIA were some of the shortcomings. However, as project
implementation progressed, some of these delays were minimized.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall implementation agencies performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.
There were several changes at the coordinator position at the METE, which led to delays
in implementation. In general, the implementing agency’s performance was satisfactory;
however, METE’s lack of experience in working with the Bank and lack of knowledge of
Bank procedures delayed implementation, especially in the area of procurement in the
early stages of project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although, the Borrower has completed the Project successfully, albeit with delays, in a
challenging external environment they could have shown more commitment to its early
implementation. Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

                                            22
6. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be learned from implementing the BERIS project:

Project design: Construction of the metrology laboratory - one of the major components
– was completed with a delay in June 2012 and the lab became operational in January
2013, after the project closure. The project design should have taken into consideration
the complexity and time in constructing a metrology laboratory, especially in a country,
where such buildings do not exists. The construction of a state of the art metrology
laboratory is unique and requires expertise to monitor and supervise. The counterparts in
the METE lacked the required expertise, which was also lacking in-country. The Bank
also underestimated the complexity and time required for the construction of the
laboratory. In addition, the design did not anticipate how much time was required to
prepare and consult on the medium-term MSTQ strategy that provided the foundation for
the project’s MSTQ activities. It is recommended that the preparatory work be financed
prior to project launch and the Bank team invests more in planning complex project
activities with more expertise.

Complexity of design. The inclusion of too many components/sub-components in a
project negatively affected implementation because both the client and the Bank had
limited resources for effective supervision and implementation. When clients have
limited capacity to begin with, it may be prudent to limit components to fewer with a
similar implementation format. Similarly, the project should not have too many
indicators. Fewer, measurable and objective monitoring indicators and a well-designed
evaluation system will better assess the baselines and subsequently achievement of
project outcomes.

Effective implementing agency: This was the first Bank funded project in Albania that
was to be implemented without a stand-alone PIU. Experience from the project indicates
that this was not initially the most optimal solution, as the METE lacked experience in
Bank procedures and policies, there was no operational manual to guide them at the
inception of the project, and METE project related staff had to work full time on their
normal work and also take on project responsibilities, without added compensation. This
resulted in initial delays in project implementation which were tried to be mitigated by
hiring consultants. A well-functioning implementation unit, staffed with competent and
committed people and fairly remunerated is essential for a successful implementation of a
multi-component and a complex project, such as this.

Continuity of project staff contributes to the success of a project. The Bank team that
prepared this project did not continue to work through most of the project life. The task
manager was changed three times, as were the counterparts. This disrupted project
continuity and contributed to delays in responding to the changing external environment
and to meeting the demands from the Borrower quickly and effectively. It is advisable
that project management and supervision activities are planned early and transferred
appropriately.


                                           23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                      24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (EURO Estimate (EURO
                                                                 Appraisal
                                  millions)       millions)
 Component 1 – Facilitating
                                       1.71            1.40          82
Business Entry and Operations
 Component 2 – Development
and Strengthening of the               5.67            6.09         107
MSTQ System
 Component 3 - Project                 0.23
                                                       0.17          74
Coordination


          Total Project Costs        7.61            7.66           100
Unallocated                          0.05            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                   0.01            0.01
   Total Financing Required          7.67            7.67



(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal Actual/Late
                                  Type of   Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                Cofinancing  (USD        (USD     of Appraisal
                                            millions)  millions)
Borrower                                      0.50        0.50        100
IBRD/IDA                                      9.30        9.25         83




                                      25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Overall, the project continues to be highly relevant for the Government’s efforts to
advance EU accession and improve the investment climate in Albania.

Component 1: Facilitation of Business Entry and Operations

Progress under this component was satisfactory. Activities under the Regulatory Impact
Assessment (RIA) assumed considerable importance, and constituted the core of
Component 1. The RIA is a tool that helps policy makers and officials to improve the
understanding of economic and social impacts of regulation, assess trade-offs between
alternative regulations, and identify the most suitable ones.

(a) Improving Quality of Regulations Affecting Business Entry and Operations:

The two-year consultancy financed by the project established an overall view of the
country’s regulatory and reform system and provided proposals on the design and
establishment of the Regulatory Impact System, Reform on Inspection, Electronic
Registry of Business Legislation and information on the Licensing System in Albania.

Implementation of the RIA program was carried out in a systematic and stepwise
manner, first by a series of reports on RIA and second through awareness-raising
activities and seeking feedback from key stakeholders. The reports prepared during the
early stage of the project included: (i) an Assessment of the Government of Albania’s
Capacities; (ii) the Inception Report for the Establishment of a RIA system in Albania;
(iii) Draft Report on a Panorama of Options for the Design and the Introduction of a RIA
System in Albania; and (iv) a draft Working Paper on a Tentative Design of the Albanian
RIA System.

In March 2011, METE sent for approval to the Council of Ministers the amended Council
of Minister’s Decree No. 584 on the “Adoption of Council of Minister’s Regulation”.
The aim of the amended decree was to improve drafting procedures of every
legal/sublegal act. It also included a new format of the Explanatory Memorandum. This
amended decree was on the Agenda of the Council of Ministers. The Regulatory Reform
and Quality Infrastructure Department (DRRIC) had, on the basis of Council of
Minister’s legislative program, selected specific legislative acts that were to be closely
monitored during the drafting process and the compilation of the explanatory
memorandum.

The awareness-raising and participatory activities consisted of a series of workshops on
RIA, starting in 2009. These workshops provided an opportunity to receive feedback
from participants on the effort and capacity needed to launch the RIA. Participants
included key stakeholders from the private sector, officials of METE, and relevant
representatives of other line institutions. These activities laid the foundation for the RIA
by dissemination of information on what the RIA is about, and how to approach RIA.


                                            26
After successfully participating in RIA training programs and pilot studies, government
officials have better drafting legislation skills in analyzing the information and data to be
included in a field/sector that would be regulated. Government officials have benefited
both at a theoretical and practical level. The training conducted by the consultants has
provided knowledge on Regulatory Impact Assessment/Inspections. The acquired
knowledge was successfully applied in two pilot studies. The pilot studies aimed at
drafting, based on RIA principles, two Albanian laws: (i) “The Veterinary Service in
Albania”; (ii) “Law on Environmental Protection” and (iii) the Inspections Law. Greater
transparency has also been provided through the setting up of the Electronic Business
Legislation Registry.

The inspection system reform was one of the priorities of the Government of Albania
under the Regulatory Reform agenda that the Project supported. There was a significant
amount of work to be done to advance the inspections reform. According to the model for
inspection outlined in the Inspections Law, the new inspection organization was to
include a small new central structure (General Inspectorate) that was to oversee
inspectorates in line ministries, coordinate works of various inspectorates, and oversee
the entire inspection reform. The General Inspectorate and Inspectorates within the line
ministries needed training in applying the new principles, procedures and ethics;
inspectorates in line ministries needed to be restructured and merged from 33 to less than
20, and over 50 sectoral technical regulations need to be amended to reflect the new
organizational structure and the Inspection Law. To build on the Project work, there was
a need to further strengthen METE’s capacity for providing RIA training and to
strengthen monitoring of regulatory reform processes by monitoring establishment and
issuance of licenses at national level and introducing regulatory impact analysis in the
legislative practices in Albania. In this regard, the Bank agreed with METE through the
January 2012 restructuring to the inclusion of four new consultant services assignments
under Part A.1 to advance the inspections reform: (a) a legal advisor for drafting rules of
organization, functioning and the detailed functions of the Central Inspectorate of
Albania; (b) a legal advisor for drafting amendments to laws and regulations enabling
uninterrupted functioning of merged inspectorates and Central Inspectorate; (c) an
advisor for drafting regulations enabling merging of inspectorates and their internal
regulations; and (d) a senior international advisor for inspection and regulatory reform in
Albania. These consultancies supported building regulatory capacities and developing a
regulatory management system for inspections. After the amended RIA Decree No. 584
comes into force, the DRRIC will organize RIA training in the line ministries based on
the training material prepared by the consultant.

Inspection Reform. The Inspection Law was passed on June 16, 2011, and the Central
Inspectorate has been established. As a result, a number of inspection bodies are in the
process of being merged to reduce the total number from 33 to 12 during 2013.

The Electronic Business Legislation Registry became fully operational on February 19,
2011, under the responsibility of the National Agency of Information Service and METE



                                             27
(www.rlb.gov.al). 10 The project financed IT equipment for the DTP and registry for
business regulation. The Register provides free information services to the public 11 and
contains all legislative acts in electronic format, namely: (i) all laws and regulations
related directly or indirectly to business activities; (ii) all laws and all Decisions of the
Council of Ministers related to business; (iii) all rules, orders, common legal acts or acts
specific to each Ministry, Council of Ministers, and other institutions; and (iv) all
procedures, application forms and guidelines provided by Ministries and other
institutions pursuant to the laws or Decisions of the Council of Ministers. Thirty line
ministries (including METE) and independent institutions have contributed to data entry
and continuously update the registry. Monitoring and administration continue to be
conducted by the IT department of METE, with its Regulatory Reform Unit responsible
for further improvement of the web-site.

The support for the small business surveys and two “Administrative and Regulatory Cost
Surveys – ARCSs” to assess outcomes of the sub-component was not done. It was
decided not to carry out the ARCS, as planned in the PAD and as revised in the
amendments of the legal agreements, but to undertake a small business survey measuring
the key outcome indicators and PDOs and a public administration survey to monitor and
evaluate reform progress within the public administration. This was a suggestion received
from the Government and the team considered it justified, because it covered most of the
question to which we were interested and there were time limitations to carry out a full
ARCS.

(b)    Strengthening, the Institutional Capacity to Draft Business Regulations
Enabling Healthy Market Competition.

This activity was dropped during negotiations and the project never financed any direct
assistance to the CPU because the CPU was, in practice, a small unit within the
Department of Market Policies (DMP) (the original Project implementation unit) in
METE that was soon merged with other functions in DMP. METE did not foresee a need

METE has received positive feedback from business community on the services
electronic registry offers in assisting businesses operations. These achievements under
the Project have been complemented by the establishment of the National Registration
Center, consisting of a main office and 31 branches. This Center is a one-stop-shop for
business registration in one day, representing a substantial reduction in time for opening a
new business, and a considerable simplification in licensing procedures. These were
implemented by the Government of Albania with the support of other donors, within the
context of the Project.



10
   The project financed the IT, software development, preparation of a manual, and training of officials in METE, line
ministries and other independent institutions.
11
   The Electronic Registry of Business Legislation offers the following services free of charge to the public: (i)
searching of legal acts, regulations, guidelines, application formats, directories; (ii) status of all legal acts in force,
abrogated or in draft form; (iii) possibility to collect, via the website, suggestions and comments from users on draft
acts or acts that are currently in force.

                                                           28
Component 2: Strengthening the Enterprise Sector’s Capability to Export to
Regional and EU Markets

Strengthening the MSTQ Systems:

Medium Term Strategy and Legislative Framework: In March 2008 the Albanian
Government approved the National MSTQ Strategy (including a strategy for metrology,
standardization and accreditation) prepared with the help of three individual consultants
funded under the project. This strategy aimed to bring each MSTQ institution closer to
EU requirements and practices. In November 2010 the long term metrology adviser
initiated revision of the strategy which was finalized at the end of 2011.

Increasing Business Sector Awareness: Several public relations campaigns were
carried out by a firm funded under the project, a communications campaign for the GDS,
“World metrology day” for the GDMC and promotional materials for the GDA.

Strengthening the Capacity of the General Directorate of Metrology (GDM):
Capacity building in the GDM benefited from the services of the Long-Term Advisor
funded under the project during 2008-2011. The consultant assisted GDM in project
implementation and capacity building by preparing procurement documents for
consultants, metrology equipment and civil works, designing and implementing
programs for the development of metrology regional centers and closure of district/field
offices, designing training programs for staff and industry laboratories, establishing the
measurement traceability in accordance with EU best practices and requirements,
arranging contacts with other metrology institutes, relevant stakeholders, including other
MSTQ institutions and donors, etc. Capacity building for the GDM also benefited from
the collaboration with the Czech Metrology Institute.

The project funded the design and supervision of construction of a modern
metrology laboratory, as well as its construction under two separate contracts and small
local contracts with civil and mechanical engineers and an architect. The new metrology
building was completed in June 2012, and became operational in January 2013. The
building itself is a large and specialized one designed to house highly sensitive
instruments and equipment, which are to be used to ensure the accuracy of all measuring
instruments serving industry, especially the export sector in Albania. This five-storied
building has a floor area of over 5,500 sqm. and has provisions for a wide range of
connections with utility services and specialized equipment. The project also funded
large equipment packages for the existing laboratories and new laboratory. Due to delays,
the number of packages was reduced (see Section 2.2).

General Directorate of Standardization. This department of METE has produced
tangible results using the lowest allocation amounting to 2 percent of the total funding
under the Project. There are two sub-components supported by the project: (a) upgrading
of the database of standards and ICT Infrastructure to meet EU requirements; and (b)
conducting a public awareness campaign. Under the first sub-component, the hardware
consisting of four servers and network devices and the necessary software are in place.

                                           29
About 23,000 standards records have been inputted. Of these, about 18,000 are EU
compatible, while the rest are either pure Albanian standards or other international
standards. The department has met its target relating to the percentage of adopted
standards made available electronically. The public awareness campaign has also been
conducted through promotional activities such as World Standards Day (this activity was
broadly followed by the national mass media), supported by a printed catalogue of
Albanian standards, the first ever printed Annual Report (for 2010), and a number of
promotional materials.

The EU has commended the work of the DPS. In particular, the EU has commented that
“there has been progress in the area of free movement of goods, particularly with regard
to adopting EN standards as Albanian standards and in establishing the managing board
of Standardization".

Directorate of Accreditation (DA). The mission of the DA is to provide Conformity
Assessment Bodies (CABs) with accreditation services based on regulations services,
standards, and accreditation principles. The vision of the DA is to become a signatory of
a mutual recognition agreement with the European Accreditation and EAin the field of
testing laboratories, and thus achieving the EA-MLA status. The Project has supported
capacity building of this institution through activities which included: (a) training of 55
staff members; (b) monitoring the DA’s assessment team during surveillance visits; and
(c) an assessment visit by two DA staff organized in Sweden. Experts from the Swedish
Accreditation Board (SWEDAC) have been monitoring the DA’s assessment team
through surveillance visits. Furthermore, four representatives of the DA participated in
two assessment visits in Sweden, to gain first-hand experience in the accreditation
process. The DA, on its own initiative has computerized the procedures involved in the
accreditation process for the benefit of CABs seeking accreditation process. As a result
of this upgrading and capacity building process in the DA, some foreign investors have
begun to collaborate with CABs accredited by DA in connection with the setting up of
export oriented ventures. This is a significant development impact, as it has helped
improve the business environment, as perceived by private investors.

Component 3: Project Coordination Support.

Project coordination and support was carried out under the auspices of the METE. The
unit was headed by an official from the METE supported by two consultants (financial
management and procurement). It must be noted that the head of this unit spent only part
of his time on the project and in addition, the candidate appointed to this position was
changed three times during the life of the project. The lack of continuity and part time
involvement in may have contributed to delays in project implementation. In line with
the M&E requirements, METE took steps to evaluate the impact of the BERIS Project by
carrying out a public administration survey (see below). This, however, depended on the
gathering of substantive and robust data (see Sections 3.2 and 3.6 for results). A business
survey was not carried out as most of the issues affecting business were covered under
the administrative survey. In addition, data was not available on the impact on exports as
a result of the new metrology building, due to delays in the facility becoming operational.


                                            30
A Public Administration Survey. Over 150 public servants were interviewed. The
survey showed that the regulatory reforms planned by the Government in 2006 have
clearly had an effect both in terms of perception by the business community and impact
on that community. It was further to be emphasised that the answers to some questions
may have been a reflection of the global economic crisis, such as, for example, reported
difficulties in obtaining financing. The completed survey was also based on interviews
with executives of 601 non-agricultural private businesses located throughout Albania
and operating in manufacture, commerce, services and construction. The sample design
criteria included 101 businesses operating partly or fully with foreign capital, and 87 out
of all the contacted businesses was involved in the last two years in export/import
activities. The survey was designed to cover obstacles to business operations and
growth (both general and administrative); registration and licensing; premises,
construction and infrastructure; inspections; tax administration, import and export;
disputes and conflict resolution; gifts and bribes; and crime.




                                            31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
N/A




                             32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation
Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
             Names                       Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Silvia Minotti             Team Leader                           ECSPF
Yannis Katsoulakos         Competition Policy Expert             ECSPF
Rochelle Hilton            Operations Advisor                    ECSPF
Greta Minxhozi             Sr. Country Officer                  ECCAL
Paula Genis                Operations Officer                    ECSF2
Ibrahim Hackaj             Sr. Operations Officer               ECCSD
Silvia Mauri               Operations Expert                    ECCU4
Nicholay Chistyakov        Sr. Finance Officer                  LOAGl
Elona Gjika                Financial Management Specialist      ECSOQ
Vinod K. Goel              Consultant                           EASFP
Serap Gonulal              Sr Financial Sector Spec.            FCMNB
Ioannis Katsoulakos        Consultant                            ECSPF
Peter Farup Ladegaard      Principal Operations Officer          CAFJ2
Belita Manka               Counsel                              LEGOP
Kirsten Burghardt Propst   Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Petrus Henricus Van
                           Senior Program Officer                PRMPS
Heesewijk
Supervision/ICR
Donato de Rosa             Country Sector Coordinator            ECSPF
Jose C. Janeiro            Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN
Blaga Djourdjin            Procurement Specialist                ECSO2
Paula Genis                Operations Officer                    ECSF2
Elona Gjika                Financial Management Specialist      ECSOQ
Vinod K. Goel              Consultant                            EASFP
Peter Farup Ladegaard      Principal Operations Officer          CAFJ2
Belita Manka               Counsel                              LEGOP
Ida N. Muhoho              Sr Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
Kirsten Burghardt Propst   Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Tarik Sahovic              Operations Officer                    CEUIC
                                                                ECCKO-
Evis Sulko                 Country Operations Officer
                                                                  DIV
Hiran Herat                Consultant                            ECSPF




                                          33
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle                                       (including travel and
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             consultant costs)

Lending
  FY06                                           42.96                 260.67
  FY07                                           14.10                  68.14
                          Total:                                       328.81
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                           11.05                  60.74
  FY08                                           29.36                  93
 FY09                                            36.58                 114.92
 FY10                                            40.38                  94.82
 FY11                                            38.58                  99.08
 FY12                                            28.32                 106.11
 FY13                                             0.98                   0
                          Total:                                       568.67




                                            34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
See Section 3.2.




                              35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                             36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR




                           37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                             38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Aide Memoires, Implementation Support and Result Reports
Consultants Terms of References and Reports
Borrower strategies
Progress Reports and M&E Data of METE
Country Assistance Strategy FY11-FY14




                                        39
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33359R1
                                          19°E                                                                    20°E                                                                        21°E
                                                 MONTENEGRO


                                                                                     Maja Jezercë
                                                                                        (2693 m)              Valbona
                                                                                                              Valbon
                                                                                                                                                                                   KOSOVO
                                                                             MALSI E            lps
                                                                                       banian A
        ALBANIA                                                               North Al      TROPOJË
                                                         To
                                                  Podgorica
                                                                             MADHE                  Bajram
                                                                          Han i Hoti                                        Curri
                                                                          Koplik                                            Dri
                                                                                                                  Fierzë       n
                                                                                                                                            HAS                          To
                                                         Lake                     SHKODËR                                                                                Prizren
                                                        Scutari                                                                                   Krumë
                                                                                                              PUKË
                                                                             Shkodër                     Koman
                                                                             (Scutari)
                                                                                                            Pukë           Fush                           Kukës
                                                                                                                           Arrëz        Kalimash
42°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42°N
                                                                                                                                          KUKËS
                                                         Bunë

                                                                                       LEZHË                                        Zall-Rec
                                                                                                         MIRDITË
                                                                          Shëngjin
                                                                   Drinit Bay                     Rubik




                                                                                                                                          Drin i Zi
                                                                                                                     Kurbneshi
                                                                              Lezhë                         Rrëshen
                                                                                                                    Lake                Peshkopi
                                                                                                Shkopet             Ulzës
                                                                  Fushë Kuge           Laç                 Ulëz
                                                                                                                    Burrel
                                                                   Rodonit Bay
                                                                                     LAÇ                                                DIBRA
                                                                                             Mamurasi             M AT
                                                                                                   Krujë
                                                                   Lalëzit
                      Adriatic                                      Bay                     KRUJË                                                                                       FY R
                                                                    DURRËS
                                                                                             Fushë
                                                                                             Krujë
                                                                                                                            Bulquizë
                                                                                                                                    BULQIZË
                                                                                                                                                                                    MA CEDON I A
                               Sea                        Durrës                        Vorë
                                                                                        Vo rë
                                                                                                         TIRANË
                                                                                                         (TIRANA)
                                                                                   Shijak
                                                                  Durrësit                      TIRANË
                                                                   Bay                                         Ibë
                                                                                                                                             Librazhd                    To
                                                                    Kavajë                                           Krrabë                                            Struga
                                                                                                                                          LIBRAZHD
                                                                   KAVAJË                                                    Elbasan
                                                                                                PEQIN                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                    Vidhës
                                                                                                                    Vid hës                           Perrenjas
41°N                                                                                             Peqin                                                                          Ohrid
                                                                                                                     ELBASAN                                                                                           41°N
                                                         Karavastasë                  HNJË
                                                                                L U S HN                           Cërrik
                                                            Bay
                                                                                  Lushnjë                                                                POGRADEC                                   Lake
                                                                                                          Kajan                                                                                    Prespa
                                                                                                                                       Gramsh                Pogradec

                                                                                                   KUÇOVË                         GRAMSH
                                                                     FIER                                   Kuçovë
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Little
                                                                           Fier                                   Berat                                                                                      Lake Prespa
                                                                                         Marinzë
                                                                                      Patos                                                                             Maliq            DEVOLL
                                                                                                           B E R AT                                         K O R Ç Ë Korçë
                                                                Kafaraj
                                                                                                Ballsh                                                                                       Bilisht
                                                                                   Vjosë
                                                                                             MALLA-                                      APAR
                                                                                                                                   S K R APA R
 0     10        20    30      40 Kilometers
                                                                                             KASTER
                                                                                                                                        Çorovodë
                                                                                     Selenice
 0          10            20         30 Miles                    Vlorës      Vlorë                   TE P E L E N Ë
                                                                  Bay
                                                                                                     Krahës                                                                 Ersekë
                                        19°E                                        Mavrovë
                                                                                                                                    PËRMET
                                                                             VLORË                                                                               KOLONJË
                                                                                                         Tepelenë Kelcyrë
                                                                                                                                                      Përmet
        ALBA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                 P




                                                                                                                                                                                          GREE CE
                                                                                                                                                         Vjo


                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                           ë s



                                                                                                                                                                       du




                                                                                                                       J I R OK AS TË R
                                                                                                                     G JI
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                           s




                                                                                                                                    Gjirokastër
                                                                                                                                                                                M




                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                      40°N                                                   DELVINË                                                                                                   40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                   ou




                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 Delvinë
                                                                                                                                                                                     nt




                                                                                                                                                                To
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                                      Ioánina
                                                                                                                                                                                        ai




                                                                                                         Sarandë
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                            Kakavija
                                                                                                                                                                                          n




                                                                             GREECE
                                                                                                                                                                                            s




                 RAILROADS                                                                                                 SARANDË
                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                  20°E                                                                            21°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JULY 2009
