Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rept No. 11850
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2003-PAK)
MAY 5, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Pakistani Rupee (PRs)
Appraisal Year (1988):                        US$1.00 = PRs 18.0
Intervening Years (1989-1990):                US$1.00 = PRs 21.1
Completion Year (1991):                       US$1.00 = PRs 23.8
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                           30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 mile (ml)                           1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                           0.405 hectare (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                     Asian Development Bank
DCA                     Development Credit Agreement
GOP                     Government of Pakistan
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
NWFP                    North West Frontier Province
PC-i                    Planning Commission Proforma-1
PPAR                    Project Performance Audit Report
RMP                     Resident Mission in Pakistan



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 5, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on PAKISTAN -
1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project (Cr. 2003-PAK&
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
PAKISTAN - 1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project (Cr. 2003-PAK)" prepared by the
South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The Bank responded promptly to the Government's request for assistance to
repair damage caused by the 1988 flood and a quick disbursing credit was approved. The
design was based in part on experience gained from similar Bank operations which had
responded to earlier flood emergencies.
The PCR reports that in general the project was completed as planned, except
that some works were substandard. Inadequate supervision by the Bank was a
contributing factor. With this qualification, overall project performance is judged as
satisfactory. Follow-up activities include a government review (assisted by ADB) of flood
protection systems and a separate review by the Government of Sind of their systems.
Sustainability depends on the set up of adequate maintenance arrangements.
It is intended to audit the project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2003-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                             ..                                              ii
PARTI                              ...............................                                                             1
1.  Project Identity  ..............................................                                                          1
2. Background ................................................   1
3.  Project Objective and  Description    ................................                                                    2
4.  Project Design  and  Organization   .................................                                                     4
5.  Project Implementation                .......................................                                             4
6.  Project Results    .............................................                                                          6
7.  Project Sustainability  ..........................................                                                        7
8.  IDA  Performance   ............................................                                                           7
9.  Borrower Performance   ........................................                                                           8
10. Project Relationship                          .............................                                               9
11. Consulting Services                            .............................                                              9
12.  Project Documentation  and  Data   .............                             ..           .................    10
PARTII ......................................................  11
PART III .....................................................  15
1.  Related  Bank Loans and  Credits   .................................    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2. Project Timetable ........................  15
3. Credit Disbursements ........................  16
4. Project Implementation ............            ............  16
A. Physical Achievements ........................  16
B. Consulting Services ........................  17
5. Project Cost and Financing    ............     ............  17
A. Project Cost ........................  17
B. Project Financing ........................  18
6. Project Results .............................................. 18
7. Status of Covenants ..........................  19
8. Use of Bank Resources    .............        .............  19
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) ...........  ...............  19
B. Missions ..........................  20
Map - IBRD 21301 R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2003-PAK)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the 1988 Flood Damage
Restoration Project in Pakistan for which Credit 2003-PAK in the amount of SDR 30.6
million (US$40.0 million equivalent) was made on April 28, 1989. The credit closing date
was extended once, by six months, to December 31, 1991. The credit account was kept
open until April 30, 1992, and the last disbursement was made on May 27, 1992, raising
the disbursed total to SDR 25.18 million (82% of the credit). The remaining credit balance
of SDR 5.42 million was cancelled.
2.       Parts I and ill of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission'/, which visited Pakistan during February/March 1992, and revised by
the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department IlIl, South Asia Region.
Preparation was based on a review of the President's Report (No. P-4991 -PAK, of March
13,1989) and the legal documents; IDA supervision reports and project files; a draft PCR
produced by the project supervisory consultants; field visits to project sites; and
discussions with the Borrower's project staff and the supervisory consultants. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
'/ M. Sugimura - mission leader/agronomist; Ms. S. Marzin - agricultural economist; and S. Rajagopal -
Irrigation engineer, consultant.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr.2003-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       The objective of the project was to urgently restore selected public
infrastructure in all four provinces that had been severely damaged by the 1988 floods.
The magnitude of restoration work required and the shortage of budget funds
necessitated GOP's appeal to international donors for assistance. IDA responded by
approving a SDR 30.6 million (US$40.0 million) emergency credit providing funds for: (i)
rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, flood protection and road infrastructure, including
bridges, culverts and other related structures; and (ii) technical assistance (supervisory
consultancy services) for project implementation. The project was to be carried out over
a 27-month period (October 1988 to December 1990). GOP and the Provincial
Governments had selected the administrative units in which schemes to be restored under
the IDA credit were located. The credit was to cover 72% of civil works costs and 90%
of technical assistance costs. Retroactive financing up to 20% of the credit amount (or
US$8 million equivalent) was provided on an exceptional basis for expenditures incurred
since October 1, 1988.
Implementation Experience
2.       The IDA credit became effective in June 1989 and was closed on December
31, 1991, after a six-month extension. To accommodate final disbursements, the credit
account was kept open until April 30, 1992. Disbursement was lower than expected due
to reduced costs and depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar and SDR, and
slower mainly due to delayed submission of withdrawal applications and submission of
applications without adequate documentation. In early 1991, the civil works disbursement
percentage was increased to 89% (with effect from September 1, 1990) as part of the
Bank Group's effort to assist borrowers affected by the Gulf war. Despite the closing date
extension from June 30, 1991 to December 31, 1991, considered sufficient at the time to
complete remaining works, total disbursements amounted to only SDR 25.2 million (82%
of the credit), leaving SDR 5.4 million which were cancelled effective May 27, 1992.
3.       Even though flood damage was identified quickly by the various Provincial
implementing agencies, not all works could be carried out immediately. Schemes to be
restored within each province were located in different engineering jurisdictions, and the
quality of scheme preparation varied depending on the skills available in each jurisdiction.
iii



Procurement procedures and related documentation requirements of IDA were followed
to varying degrees for the same reason, which resulted in delays in scheme clearance
and replenishment of special accounts.
Project Results
4.       In general, the project achieved its objective of restoring flood damaged
infrastructure, assisting in economic recovery. A total of 666 schemes were completed,
involving irrigation, drainage, and flood protection works, causeways and roads. Actual
cost of the schemes was lower than orginally estimated, which was mainly due to the
initial inability of project staff to reach certain sites and consequent over-estimation of the
damage occurred. In Sind, actual costs were in particular much lower than original
estimates.
5.       Quality of work varied. Overall standards were good and the supervisory
consultants have, in general, contributed to the good quality of workmanship and
materials used. However, there have been reports of substandard work in some
schemes. From the PCR mission's observations it appears, for instance, that better
quality control could have been exercised in the procurement of galvanized iron wires
which have been used extensively in the construction of spurs, J spurs and flood
protection bunds.
6.       No economic or financial rate of return was estimated at appraisal, which is
accepted practice in such emergency projects. Since irrigation systems are now
functioning again and economic activity has resumed, it can be concluded that the project
had a beneficial impact upon the economy, the society and the environment.
Project Sustainability
7.       A majority of the schemes has been restored to preflood condition as
envisaged by the project. Since restoration works were done without extensive review
of design parameters, flood frequencies, and river flow hydraulics such as aggradation
and degradation of riverbeds, their sustainability depends on the soundness of the
judgments made by project engineers. Inadequate staffing and funding of normal
maintenance activities would aggravate the situation. It would be appropriate for GOP to
undertake a follow-up review of the design of the restored structures and the maintenance
program. A review of the flood protection systems in Pakistan is being carried out by
GOP with ADB assistance.
8.       Effective operation of the flood monitoring and warning system, both within
Pakistan and in collaboration with India, is essential for the sustained operation of the
restored structures.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.       Lessons to be learned from project implementation are that: (i) provision of
retroactive financing greatly assisted GOP; (ii) 'emergency response' projects should be
supervised more frequently by staff specializing in the appropriate disciplines; (iii)
iv



borrower personnel should be given short courses in the operation of special accounts
and in IDA procurement and disbursement procedures (which was done, but with less
than desired effect); (iv) supervisory consultants should be allowed additional staff-
months so that a more detailed inspection of civil works under construction (rather than
spot checks and intermittent inspection visits) is possible; (v) field teams in charge of civil
works may require training by supervisory consultants or RMP to enhance their
competence in checking construction techniques; and (vi) the scattered nature of
restoration works which involves different engineering jurisdictions and capabilities should
be taken into account in designing special funding arrangements and reimbursement
procedures.
v






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr.2003-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name       1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project
Credit No.         2003-PAK
RVP Unit           South Asia Region
Country            Pakistan
Sector            Agriculture and Transport
Sub-sectors        Irrigation, Drainage and Roads
2. Background
2.1      During 1988, Pakistan suffered two major floods, the first in July/August and
the second in September/October. The July/August floods, by the Jhelum and Indus
rivers, caused significant damage in Sind, Baluchistan and North West Frontier Province
(NWFP). In Sind, the Indus river was in high flood at the Guddu (1,162,000 cusecs) and
Sukkur barrages (1,118,000 cusecs). A number of flood protection bunds were destroyed
by river erosion. The right guide bund of Dadu Moro bridge was almost completely
washed away. Below Kotri barrage, the surface loop bund was breached causing
extensive inundation of cropped areas. The Daro branch canal was severely damaged.
The Sujawal and Battoro branch drains and the Nagan outfall drain were also badly
damaged. In Baluchistan, the Pat feeder canal was breached at 61 places. In NWFP,
severe flash floods and flooding along the Kabul and Swat rivers affected more than 500
villages. The September/October floods, by the Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers, caused
severe damage in Punjab. The Shadara distributary bund was breached causing heavy
flooding of the area between Shadara and Kala Shah Kaku. Downstream, the Balloki and
Sidhnai headworks were subjected to discharges far in excess of their design capacities,
and embankments were breached to save the structures. The Sulaimanki headworks on
the Sutlej river faced a similar situation, with the flood waters breaching both abutments
and causing widespread damage.
1



2.2      It was estimated that as a result of these floods about one million hectares of
irrigated crop land and settled areas were inundated or otherwise adversely affected
resulting in large losses to the cotton, rice and sugarcane crops. More than three million
people were made homeless and about 500 lives were lost.
2.3      GOP responded quickly, and the Provincial Governments and related federal
agencies assembled a comprehensive inventory of damage to public infrastructure
(irrigation, drainage, flood protection, roads, railways, communications, schools, hospitals,
etc.). This inventory indicated damage to: (a) about 1,500 km of canals, drainage
channels and flood protection works in Punjab, three major canal commands in Sind, the
Pat feeder canal in Baluchistan, and the Warsak Lift and Mama Khil Jaded canals in
NWFP; (b) about 500 km of major flood protection works; (c) over 3,000 km of roads
and related structures;  (d) 15 sections of railways totalling over 100 breaches of
embankments; (e) 2,150 public buildings; and (f) a major telephone and telegraph
coaxial cable between Multan and Bahawalpur, and telephone exchange facilities in
Lahore.
2.4      Immediately following the floods, GOP and Provincial Governments mobilized
relief programs and undertook restoration measures with their own funds. However, the
magnitude of restoration work required and the shortage of budget funds resulted in
GOP's urgent appeal for international donor assistance in this emergency.  IDA
responded by instructing a water sector mission visiting Pakistan in October 1988 to
assess the damage and need for assistance, and approving the SDR 30.6 million
(US$40.0 million) credit for restoration of selected public infrastructure which is the subject
of this PCR. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) approved a parallel project for US$44
million (Loan 957-PAK). Government designated specific administrative units to the IDA
and ADB projects. In addition, the Islamic Development Bank offered a loan of US$10
million for the restoration of health, education, railway and telecommunication facilities, but
this assistance did not materialize. The IDA and ADB projects, including Government
contributions, covered the restoration to their preflood condition of almost all damaged
public irrigation, drainage, flood protection and road facilities. Because of the emergency
nature of the project, the IDA credit was processed without preparation of an appraisal
report (SAR).
3. ProJect Objective and Description
3.1      The main objective of the project was to assist GOP and Provincial
Governments in the restoration of selected flood damaged irrigation, drainage, flood
protection and road infrastructure in all four provinces. This restoration was to help
economic activities to return to normalcy after the disruption by the 1988 floods. As
damaged flood protection works leave vast areas vulnerable to floods of even modest
levels and damaged irrigation canals would have seriously affected irrigation supplies for
the 1988/1989 rabi crops, restoration was to be undertaken as a matter of urgency.
3.2      The project provided for: (i) restoration (civil works) of selected irrigation,
drainage, flood protection and road infrastructure, including bridges, culverts and other
related structures;  (ii) technical assistance (supervisory consultancy services) for
2



implementation; and (iii) supervision and administration. It was to be carried out over a
27-month period (October 1988 to December 1990).  GOP and the Provincial
Governments had selected the schemes to be restored by designated governmental
administrative units. The type of works to be executed was as follows:
(a)   Irrigation system - repair of breaches and canal banks; removal of
silt deposited by flood water;  repair/reconstruction of control
structures, bridges, outlets and irrigation buildings, such as gauge
huts, resthouses and offices.
(b)   Drainage  system  - desilting  of drainage  channels, repair/
reconstruction of inlet structures, repair of breaches, and other
ancillary works.
(c)    Flood protection works - repair of breaches and restoration of
eroded embankments; repair of hydraulic structures; and restoration
of river control spurs.
(d)   Dams and weirs - restoration of embankments, aprons, spillways and
outlet control structures, and stone pitching (Baluchistan only).
(e)    Barrages - repair of control gate and operating mechanism;
reinstatement of stonework protection on guide bunds and in
downstream aprons; and restoration of earthworks on guide and
marginal bunds.
(f)    Roads - repairing of flood damaged sections; providing additional
culverts and/or drainage vents needed for passing larger flood flows
in reconstructed road embankments; and reconstruction of bridges
and culverts.
3.3      Technical assistance to be provided through local supervisory consultants
was for about 500 staff-months. Project funding for supervision and administration was
to be limited to additional personnel and related costs of the coordination units in the
Federal Flood Cell and Provincial Flood Damage Restoration Cells. The implementing
agencies were to utilize existing staff, facilities and equipment.
3.4      Total project costs were estimated to be US$55.6 million (PRs 1,140 million).
The IDA credit of SDR 30.6 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) was to cover 72% of civil
works costs and 90% of technical assistance costs. Because of the emergency nature
of the work and the critical need for IDA assistance, retroactive financing up to 20% of the
credit was approved on an exceptional basis in respect of eligible expenditures incurred
since October 1, 1988 (seven months).
3



4. Project Design and Organization
4.1      The project largely followed the design of the previous IDA-assisted project to
restore flood damaged infrastructure in Pakistan. The Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR) for the 1976 Flood Damage Restoration Project (Cr. 683-PAK) had concluded that:
"employment of qualified local supervisory consultants for projects with a large number
of components. project works and agencies involved can provide invaluable on-the-spot
control at a level which is impossible through normal IDA supervision". The consulting
firm that had performed well in this role under Cr. 683-PAK, was recruited by GOP on a
sole-source basis. This feature of the project was instrumental in the smooth and
reasonably successful execution of this project.
4.2      At the federal level, the sectors covered by the project are under the authority
of the Ministries of Water and Power, and Communications and Works, and the National
Highway Board (now National Highway Authority). At the provincial level, the Irrigation
and Communications and Works Departments were responsible for implementing the
project. Coordination at the federal level was the responsibility of the Federal Flood Cell
in the Ministry of Water and Power, and at the provincial level of the Provincial Irrigation
Departments. In each Provincial Irrigation Department, a Flood Damage Restoration Cell
was established for this purpose, with a full-time coordinator and supporting staff.
4.3      Schemes to be restored were not reviewed by IDA (except those costing over
PRs 4 million implemented after the end of the period covered by retroactive financing).
They were accepted as submitted by GOP in order to expedite project implementation.
Actually, all schemes were not executed on an emergency basis. Hence in retrospect,
it would have been preferable to have a quick assessment of the hydraulics of the river
systems involved, an evaluation of aggradation problems and maintenance problems
which might have aggravated the flooding, and a review of designs taking into
consideration advances in technology since the original structures were built. Changes
in original design were considered in four cases under the project. These issues have
a bearing on the proper functioning and sustainability of the restored structures and
hence an indirect impact on the economic performance of related sectors.
5. Project Implementation
5.1      The credit became effective on June 19, 1989 and was closed on December
31, 1991, six months after the original closing date. Disbursement was lower than
expected at appraisal due to reduced costs and depreciation of the Rupee against the US
dollar and SDR, and slower mainly due to delayed submission of withdrawal applications
and submissions with inadequate documentation by the Borrower. In March 1991, the
civil works disbursement percentage was increased to 89% (with effect from September
1, 1990) as part of the Bank Group's effort to assist borrowers affected by the Gulf war.
In order to allow additional time for the completion of works and the processing of the
backlog of reimbursement claims, the credit closing date was extended from June 30,
1991 to December 31, 1991. Total disbursements amount to SDR 25.18 million (82% of
the credit), leaving SDR 5.42 million undisbursed, which were cancelled as of May 27,
4



1992. Actual project costs are PRs 994 million (about US$44 million equivalent), based
on data provided by the supervisory consultants.
5.2      Even though damage to structures was identified quickly by the various
implementing agencies, not all works could be executed immediately. Schemes to be
restored within each province were located in different engineering jurisdictions. The
quality of scheme preparation varied depending on the skills available in each jurisdiction.
IDA documentation requirements were also met to varying degrees for the same reason.
Schemes were not always prepared with attention to IDA guidelines, and a lot of
correspondence was exchanged on the matter between the supervisory consultants and
the implementing agencies. This resulted in delays in clearance of reimbursement
applications. Remedial measures by GOP following up on interventions by RMP could,
perhaps, have eliminated some of these delays.
5.3      Project procurement procedures called for local competitive bidding (LCB) and
in some instances, where heavy earthmoving and other machinery was involved, "force
account" methods. Tendering procedures similar to those adopted in the Second
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK) were to be used. In the period
covered by retroactive financing, in which about two-thirds of all works--including all high
priority works--were awarded, there was some relaxation of tendering requirements.
During this period, the implementing agencies followed existing Provincial Government
procedures for civil works procurement. Such procedures, some of which were not in
conformity with IDA guidelines, were followed even after the end of the retroactive
financing period, resulting in the exchange of correspondence mentioned above between
the agency involved, the supervisory consultants, and RMP.
5.4      IDA had set up different clearance procedures for reimbursement of civil works
expenditures based on contract size. Three ranges were adopted: in excess of PRs 4
million, between PRs 500,000 and PRs 4 million, and below PRs 500,000. Contracts in
excess of PRs 4 million required prior review by IDA of invitations to bid and proposed
awards. Contracts between PRs 500,000 and PRs 4,000,000 were subject to post review
with reimbursement made upon submission of all documentation as per IDA guidelines.
Expenditures on contracts below PRs 500,000 were to be reimbursed on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) with the proviso that full documentation would be made
available for review by IDA supervision missions. For force account, the same procedures
were to be followed as for contracts below PRs 500,000. Interviews with the different
Provincial Coordinators indicated that they would have preferred if a similar classification
had been applied to tendering procedures as well, including tender periods of varying
length depending on scheme size.  However, it appears that IDA procurement
requirements (which were waived many times on a case-by-case basis) contributed less
to reimbursement delays than PIDs' internal procedures and weakness of the domestic
construction industry, and did not delay project implementation.
5.5      Reimbursement applications were, in general, submitted very slowly.
Throughout the implementation period, the implementing agencies had a backlog of
reimbursements to be claimed. The project brief accompanying RMP's letter to GOP of
January 22, 1991, indicated that applications had not been submitted for as much as PRs
340 million even though eligible expenditures had been incurred. It appears that in some
5



provinces where money was available from "suspense accounts", the agencies used this
facility rather than withdrawing funds from the Special Accounts and GOP allocations, and
claiming reimbursement. Most of the expenditures were incurred by field-level staff at
Executive Engineers' level or even lower who were not familiar with IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures.  Once they had made payments to contractors using
whichever source was readily available, these officers were basically not interested in
following up with the necessary paperwork to obtain reimbursement. In most instances
they drew down the Special Accounts to absolute minimum levels before submitting
replenishment claims. It appears that in Sind project implementation was delayed due to
this process.
6. Project Results
6.1      In general, the project achieved its targets of restoring flood damaged
infrastructure, assisting in economic recovery. A total of 666 schemes were executed
involving irrigation, drainage, flood protection works, causeways and roads. The
breakdown of schemes by province and implementing agency is given in Part IlIl, 4A.
Actual cost of the schemes was lower than estimated, which was mainly due to the
inability of implementing staff to make detailed cost estimates and the consequent use of
conservative estimates of the damage, due to the initial problem of access to some of the
damaged schemes. In Sind, actual costs were in particular much lower than original
estimates (see Part ll, 5A).
6.2      Quality of work varied from scheme to scheme visited by the PCR mission.
However, overall standards were good and the supervisory consultants'staff have
contributed to the good quality of workmanship and materials used. However, there have
been reports of substandard work in some schemes. More frequent and appropriately
staffed supervision missions, and allocation of additional resources to the supervisory
consultants would have helped to improve quality control (see para 8.4). The PCR
mission saw several gabions with poor quality galvanized wiremesh. Supervisory
consultants' engineers informed the mission that good quality galvanized wiremesh was
available from suppliers in Karachi, whereas the quality produced by suppliers in Lahore
was poor. Following complaints by field officers and a contractor in 1989, the consultants
regularly urged procurement officers to obtain required wiremesh from Karachi. The
wiremesh in NWFP schemes has already started rusting in many places. Good quality
wires were seen in the schemes visited by the mission in Baluchistan. It would appear
that better quality control could have been exercised in the procurement of GI wires which
have been used extensively in the construction of spurs, J spurs and flood protection
bunds.
6.3      No economic or financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, which is
accepted practice in such emergency projects.  Since irrigation systems are now
functioning properly and economic activity has resumed, it can be concluded that the
project had a beneficial impact upon the economy, the society and the environment.
6



7. Project Sustainablilty
7.1      With few exceptions, restoration has been carried out to preflood condition as
envisaged by the project. In order to build a flood-resistant system, a review of design
parameters, flood frequencies, and river flow hydraulics such as aggradation and
degradation of riverbeds is required. It is not clear from available documentation how
much of the flood damage in 1988 was due to poor maintenance of facilities resulting
from inadequate staffing and funding. The PPAR for Cr. 683-PAK reported that "a major
factor behind the disastrous 1973 floods and to a lesser extent those of 1976. was the
inadequate fundina of normal maintenance of flood protection facilities." Interviews with
engineers responsible for the maintenance of flood protection works indicated that
maintenance staff was inadequate, sometimes one small group being responsible for
about 400 km of flood protection works. It would be appropriate for GOP to undertake
a follow-up review of the design of restored structures and the maintenance program, and
ensure appropriate action. A review of the flood protection systems in Pakistan and the
planning of new facilities is being carried out by GOP with ADB assistance under the
Flood Protection Sector Project (Ln. 837-PAK). The Government of Sind is also
independently reviewing specific systems. The sustainability of project works will
ultimately depend on the outcome of these reviews as well as adequate maintenance.
7.2      Effective operation of the flood monitoring and warning systems, both within
Pakistan and in collaboration with India, is essential for the sustained operation of the
restored structures. Since the flood flows take a considerable time (a few days) to reach
the downstream areas most vulnerable to flooding, early warning systems could play a
major role in reducing future damage and thus complement the utility of the restored
structures.
8. IDA Performance
8.1      IDA responded quickly to GOP's request for assistance by instructing a water
sector mission which was visiting Pakistan at that time (October 1988) to assess the flood
damage and need for assistance. GOP's consultants prepared a list of schemes to be
financed under the IDA credit. On this basis, IDA prepared lending documents to be
ready for negotiations expected in December 1988. When ADB also offered financing for
the same sectors, with the proviso that specific areas be assigned to its operation, GOP
requested changes in the list previously submitted to IDA (para 9.1), and IDA revised its
appraisal documents accordingly. Actual credit negotiations started on February 27,
1989.
8.2      Because of GOP's critical need for financial assistance, IDA rightly agreed to
provide retroactive financing, on an exceptional basis, for expenditures incurred since
October 1, 1988, up to a maximum of 20% of the credit (US$8 million). This arrangement
assisted GOP greatly. IDA also relaxed criteria for LCB and pre-restoration benchmark
surveys for this retroactive financing period of seven months.
7



8.3      The Provincial Coordinator of Sind informed the PCR mission that damaged
structures in his province were in fact brought back to original design standards rather
than to pre-flood condition. IDA has quite rightly been flexible in accommodating this.
8.4       Even though the credit closing date was extended, no supervision missions
were mounted by IDA in 1991. The two earlier supervision missions comprised an
agriculturist and an engineer. A project of this nature would have called for a water
resources specialist with civil engineering background to participate in supervision as this
would have helped in carrying out important quality checks of completed and ongoing
works. It appears that this task was left to the supervisory consultants, but they did not
have sufficient staff-months to provide detailed supervision either.
8.5      Lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
(i)      retroactive financing as provided under the credit greatly assisted
GOP;
(ii)     'emergency response' projects should be supervised more
frequently by staff specializing in the appropriate disciplines;
(iii)    borrower personnel should be given short training courses in the
operation of special accounts and in IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures; such courses/seminars were arranged
by RMP, but their effect was less than desired because of field
staff turnover and deepseated habits in the PIDs;
(iv)     supervisory consultants should be allowed additional staff-months
so that a more detailed inspection of civil works under
construction (rather than spot checks and intermittent inspection
visits) can be done;
(v)      field teams in charge of civil works may require training by the
supervisory consultants or RMP to enhance their competence in
checking construction techniques; and
(vi)     the scattered nature of restoration works which involves different
engineering jurisdictions and capabilities should be taken into
account in designing special funding arrangements and
reimbursement procedures.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1      Borrower response to the 1988 floods through quick preparation of the
restoration project was good. GOP engaged consultants to review the estimates
prepared by the Provincial Governments and federal agencies. Based on this information,
the consultants prepared a list of schemes to be financed under the IDA credit. When
ADB offered financing for the same purpose, with the proviso that specific areas be
8



assigned to its operation, to avoid overlap, GOP requested changes in the list of schemes
prepared for IDA financing.'/   Altogether, the rearrangements necessary to
accommodate both donors caused processing delay of about two months (para 8. 1), but
gained GOP additional US$44 million. The Borrower's performance in completing civil
works of all restoration schemes was reasonably satisfactory. In particular, it was noted
by the Chief Engineer, Federal Flood Commission (Ministry of Water and Power) in the
PCR mission's wrap-up meeting that this was probably the first project where costs have
not exceeded the PC_12/ estimates. The quality of construction varied. However,
overall standards were good and the supervisory consultants have, in general, contributed
to the good quality of workmanship and materials used. The Provincial Coordinators
merely functioned as facilitators relaying correspondence between the implementing
agencies and the supervisory consultants. They maintained accounts and operated the
Special Accounts, as required by the project, but did not play an active role in expediting
reimbursement applications and monitoring project disbursements and audits. In some
provinces, the supervisory consultants were performing many of the duties of the
Borrower's implementing agencies. Regarding tender notice periods, the Provincial
Coordinators did not make an attempt to either educate their staff in the procedural
requirements of the project or to obtain IDA agreement to the use of local procedures.
This resulted in unnecessary delays in disbursement for some of the schemes.
9.2      The required audits were carried out but usually much later than called for in
the Development Credit Agreement. The audit reports regularly gave a clean opinion
indicating no irregularities on the part of the Borrower.
10. Project Relationship
10.1     The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good throughout
the implementation of the project. The supervisory consultants had excellent working
relationships with both the provincial implementing agencies and the Federal Flood Cell.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     The supervisory consultants were responsible for monitoring progress of work
and compliance with the implementation schedule, and assisting in the preparation of
reimbursement applications. Initially, they were hampered in the performance of their
duties by the non-availability of vehicles. As stated earlier, their services were valuable
in the supervision of the widely scattered schemes. Senior personnel of the implementing
agencies was frequently transferred. The consultants' engineers helped in maintaining
continuity. There have been reports of substandard work in some of the schemes. In
1989, when some structures were damaged by that year's floods, newspaper reports
indicated that some of these structures had been restored in a substandard manner a few
months earlier. However, the matter was not officially brought to the attention of the
1" EAD telex of December 21, 1988.
2/ Planning Commission Proforma-1.
9



consultants. The situation could have arisen because the consultants had to spread staff
to cover large areas and stay within their budget. Following the above-mentioned
newspaper reports, RMP requested IDA to look into the maKter during the next
supervision mission. However, it appears that this request was not followed up since the
next supervision mission did not include a civil engineer specialized in earthwork
construction.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1     There is no staff appraisal report for this emergency project. Instead, a
President's report with a technical annex was prepared. The documentation available with
the supervisory consultants was extremely useful in preparing this PCR. Data relevant to
PCR preparation were, in general, readily available.
10



PART II
1. Project Description and Objectives
1.   During the year 1988 Pakistan has been subjected to two major floods; the first in
August and the second in late September. The August flood occurred in the Indus and
Jhelum rivers. The other tributary rivers also passed high flows simultaneously, the
cumulative effect of which generated a very high flood in the Indus at the Guddu, Sukkur
and Kotri Barrages. In September/October the flood was caused by heavy rains in the
catchment areas of the Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej rivers in India. The flood in River Chenab
was high but did not cause any significant damage.
2.   The Government of Pakistan (GOP) made a request to the World Bank for
emergency assistance to restore public sector infrastructure damaged during the August
and September 1988 floods. Simultaneously, the Government of Pakistan retained the
services of National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd (NESPAK) as Supervisory
Consultants for providing assistance to Government of Pakistan officials in collecting
information on damage to public infrastructure and compiling a report which could form
the basis of preparation of the "1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project", and supervising
the implementation of the project.
3.   The objectives of the Project were to
-    urgently restore selected public infrastructure in all four Provinces that had
been severely damaged by the 1988 floods;
-    rehabilitate irrigation, drainage, flood protection and road infrastructure,
including bridges, culverts, and other related structures;
-    make emergency repairs of main channels, distributaries and minors to
restore the system to its running condition;
-    restore the canal systems to their pre-flood condition;
-    repair and reconstruct damaged barrages and their components, spurs,
protection works of the barrages and other irrigation facilities to bring them
to pre-flood condition;
-    restore flood protection works, involving repair and reconstruction of flood
embankments, spurs and shanks to their original pre-flood level;
11



reconstruct roads in a way to quickly restore the traffic flow; and
restore pavements to their pre-flood levels and shapes.
2. Project Implementation
4.   The IDA credit became effective in June 1989 and was closed on December 31,
1991, after a six-month extension. To accommodate final disbursements, the credit
account was kept open until April 30, 1992. Disbursement was lower than expected due
to reduced costs and depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar and SDR, and
slower mainly due to delayed submission of applications without adequate documentation.
5.   A problem which caused delay was the slow takeoff of the project, which is a
normal feature of all such projects. Also, the Gulf War started during the Project, but
overall progress remained satisfactory. When the project was extended for six months
upto December, 1991 because of the Gulf War, the recovery of the initial deposits into the
Special Accounts was not delayed and started from January, 1991 as originally planned.
Consequently it added to the implementation problem.
6.   An agreement between Borrower and the Bank signed on October 23, 1991, to
extend the credit closing date upto December 31, 1991, mostly affected project
implementation.
7.   Even though flood damage was identified quickly by the various Provincial
implementing agencies, not all works could be carried out immediately. Schemes to be
restored within each Province were located in different engineering jurisdictions, and the
quality of scheme preparation varied depending on the skills available in each jurisdiction.
Procurement procedures and related documentation requirements of IDA were followed
to varying degrees for the same reason, which resulted in delays in scheme clearance
and replenishment of special accounts.
3. Project Results
8.   The Project successfully achieved its targets in restoring damaged infrastructure
and assisting the GOP in rapid economic recovery. The schemes completed involve
irrigation, drainage, and flood protection works, causeways and roads.
9.   Overall standards were good and the supervisory consultants have, in general
contributed to the good quality of workmanship and material used.
10.  No separate staff was sanctioned for the Project. Existing staff in the office dealt
with the whole project. Funds were adequate to meet the estimated cost of the
12



restoration works. This is the first IDA funded project of its kind where contingency/
escalation approved in the PC-I has not been utilized.
11.  Results could have been improved if:
i)   special provisions in the Project had been made to educate the concerned
officers;
ii)   adequate procurement of field transport had been managed right at the
start to commence the baseline survey, which was delayed by over six
months;
iii)   better quality control had been exercised in the procurement of galvanized
iron wires which have been used extensively in the construction of spurs,
J-spurs and flood protection bunds.
4. Project Sustainability
12.  The project did not cover any new works. It covered restoration of facilties
damaged by the 1988 floods so that these works were brought to their pre-flood
condition. The question of 0 & M does not arise in the case of this project.
13.  With few exceptions, restoration has been carried out to pre-flood condition as
envisaged by the Project. In order to build a flood resistant system, a review of design
parameters, flood frequencies, and river flow hydraulics such as aggradation and
degradation of river beds is required. A follow up review of the restored structures and
maintenance programme must be undertaken and appropriate action in this regard is
necessary, as the sustainability of project works will ultimately depend on the outcome
of these reviews as well as adequate maintenance.
14.  Effective operation of the flood monitoring and warning systems, both within
Pakistan and in collaboration with India, is essential for the sustained operation of the
restored structures. Since the flood flows take a considerable time (a few days) to reach
the downstream areas most vulnerable to flooding, an early warning system could play
a major role in reducing future damage and thus complement the utility of the restored
structures.
5. Project Design
15.  The project designs and components were sound and their sizes were appropriate,
which contributed to its success. All the project design aspects were according to field
observations, previous design experience and specifications. So, there was no need for
modifications.
13



6. Bank Performance
16.  The Bank's performance may be summarized as follows.
-    Overall cooperation of the Bank remained highly satisfactory. Efficient
release of funds and extension of credit closing date were the chief points
of strength and understanding on the part of the Bank. The amounts of
initial deposits into the Special Accounts, fixed by IDA, were lower than the
optimum requirements of the Provinces, however, a correction was
subsequently made.
-    The Bank mission framed the Project and obtained institution approvals
efficiently resulting in signing of the Agreement in the shortest possible time.
-    During the implementation period, after the Agreement had been signed,
IDA arranged Supervisory Missions. In general no delays occurred.
7. Borrower Performance
17.  The Borrower managed the Project satisfactorily through:
i)   Timely appointment of Supervisory Consultants.
ii)   Proper coordination and arrangements between the Borrower and the
Provinces for their participation in the Project.
iii)   Establishment of Federal and Provincial Coordinators.
18.  Despite non-availability of special sanctioned staff for the Project, performance was
satisfactory because of the high priority given by the Borrower to the works. For further
improvements separate staff should be provided next time.
8. Project Relationship
19.  A pleasant relationship existed between the Borrower, the Bank and Consultants,
alongwith excellent coordination with the Provinces. Overall, good understanding and
better working environment prevailed throughout the Project from its evaluation till its
completion.
20.  The Borrower's comments on the draft PCR (Parts I and l1l) have been taken into
account by the Bank.
14



PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                       Purpose                  Year of      Status         Comments
Title                                                      Approval
Flood Rehabilitation  Emergency assistance to rehabilitate public  1974  Caosed    PPAR issued October
Program         infrastructure damaged by the 1973 flood and                      1978.
(Cr. 466-PAK)    finance industrial imports (agriculture-related
equipment and spares).
Flood Damage     Emergency assistance to restore critical    1977       Caosed     PPAR issued December
Restoration Project  infrastructure damaged by the 1976 flood.         Dec. 1978    1980.
(Cr. 683-PAK)
2. Project Timetable
Item                          Date Planned             Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification                    NA.                                           Oct. 7, 1989 l/
Preparation                       NA.                                           Oct. 7, 1989 l/
Appraisal                         NA.                                           Oct. 7, 1989 l/
Negotiations                  Dec. 1988 l/             Jan. 1989 2/            Feb./Mar. 1989
Board Approval                 Jan. 1989 l/            Feb. 1989 2/            April 11, 1989
Credit Signature               Feb. 1989 3/                NA.                 April 28, 1989
Credit Effectiveness           Feb. 1989 l/          June 15, 1991 3/          June 19, 1989
Credit Closing                June 30, 1991          Dec. 31, 1991             Dec. 31, 1991
Credit Completion                 NA.                      NA.                 April 30, 1992
l/ Water Sector mission's aide memoire, dated October 27, 1988.
2/ FEPS, December 2, 1988.
3/ President's Report dated March 13, 1989 (para 18 and Schedule C, respectively).
Comments
Identification/Preparation/Appralsal:   (i) Appointment of  supervisory
consultants and establishment of Provincial coordinating cells was to be a condition of
negotiations; (ii) retroactive financing (not more than US$15 million) to be permitted for
expenditures incurred on project activities since September 1988; and (iii) LCB and/or
force account to be used for project civil works. Project processing was delayed about
two months because of GOP's interest in also receiving the Asian Development Bank's
assistance for restoring flood damaged infrastructure.
Negotiations: Appointment of supervisory consultants and establishment of
Provincial coordination cells (called Flood Damage Restoration Cells) was made a
condition of Board presentation. The eligibility date for retroactive financing--up to US$8
million, or 20% of the Credit--was agreed to be October 1, 1988, and the force account
limit was raised from US$10 million to US$12 million. As an exception, it was agreed that
a condition of Board presentation would be approval of the PC-Is by the Central
Development Working Party and anticipatory (unconditional) approval by the Chairman
15



of the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC), rather than
ECNEC itself. This condition was met in March 1989.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY89                 FY90                FY91                FY92
Appraisal Estimates 1/
- SDR million                                 7.7                  23.0                30.6
- USS million                                 10.0                 30.0                40.0
Actuals 2/
- SDR million                                  -                   10.8                 17.6               25.2
- USS million                                  -                   13.9                 23.3               33.7
Actuals as % of Estimates
- SDR                                          -                    47                  57                  82
- USS                                          -                    46                  58                  84
Date of Final Disbursement: May 27, 1992.
1/ President's Report, Appendix III.
2/ LOAAS, june 1992.
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievements
Item                                  Origtnal Target 1/       PC-1 2/              Adual         Actual as % of PC-1
.................... .(No. of Schemes) .
Punjab:
- Irrigation                                 NA.                 222                  188                  85
- Roads                                      NA.                 139                  129                  92
Sind
- Irrigation                                 NA.                  63                  68                  108
- Roads                                      NA.                  13                  11                   85
NWFP
- Irrigation                                 NA                  127                 120                   94
- Roads                                      NA.                 106                 116                  109
Baluchistanr
- Irrigation                                 NA                   30                  29                   97
National Highway Board
- Roads                                      NA.                   5                   5                  100
Total                                        NA.                 705                 666 3/                94
1/ Even though details on number of schemes and civil works quantities such as earthwork, stone masonry and concrete were
available, supervision missions used expenditure on civil works as the key indicator for project achievement.
2/ Planning Commission Proforma-1.
3/ Originally 705 schemes were submitted to IDA. Later some schemes were found to be ineligible for IDA rinancing and were dropped.
The revised total is 666.
16



B. Consulting Services
Original Estimates       Contract              Actual            Actual as % of SAR
Estimate
. ........................ (staff-months) .
1. Technical                            NA                    419.5               460.6                    110
2. Non-technical                        NA                     240.0              229.0                     95
Total                                    500                   659.5              689.6                    105
1/ Contract between GOP and project supervisory consultants.
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Item                             Apprisa  Estimate 1/                   Actual 2/               Actual as % of Appraisal
PRs mflion      USS millon    PRs million 2/ USS million 3/         PRs            USS
Civil Works:
- Punjab                         648.8            31.6            626.0            27.4            96             87
- Sind                           258.2             12.5            165.0            7.2            64             58
- NWFP                           122.0             6.0             110.0            4.8            90             80
- Baluchistan                     25.9             1.3             22.0             1.0            85             77
- Nat. Highway Board              63.0             3.1             55.0             2.4            87             77
Sub-Total                       1,117.9           54.5            978.0            42.8            87             78
Technical Assistance              20.7             1.0            ) 15.6          ) 0.7          ) 72           ) 64
Supervision & Admin.               1.1             0.1            )               )              )              )
Total                         1,139.7          56              993.6            43.5            37             78
1/ Including physical and price contingencies (President's Report, Appendix 1, Table 4).
2/ Based on Quarterly Progress Report, January-March 1992, and further information provided by the supervisory consultants.
3/ Estimates based on IDA disbursement records.
Comments
Original cost estimates were based on initial appraisal of the damage. Some
of the sites were inaccessible and implementing agency staff made conservative
assumptions. Later, after floodwaters had completely receded, staff were able to make
a more detailed appraisal which resulted in lower costs for some of the schemes (and
higher for some others). Total costs are now lower. The reduction is greater in US
dollars than in Rupees due to the depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar.
17



B. Project Financing
Original Estimate            PCR Estimate 1/
Total   GOP    IDA    % IDA  Total   GOP   IDA    % IDA
..... ................ (PRs million) .
Civil Works             1,118   313    805    72   978    221   757    77
Technical Assistance      21      2      19    90   ) 16    ) 2    ) 14    ) 90
Supervision & Admin.       1      1      -      - )         )       )      )
Total                   1,140   316    824    72   994    223   771    78
1/ Based on IDA disbursement records and infonnation provided by the supervisory consultants.
Comment
The increase in the IDA share in project financing--from 72% to 78%--was the
result of the Bank Group's decision to increase disbursement percentages in order to
assist borrowers affected by the Gulf war. Pakistan was included in the group of oil
importing borrowers most seriously affected. The civil works disbursement percentage
was increased from 72% to 89% effective September 1, 1990.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
No benefits were quantified as is the practice for this type of emergency
project. However, based on past experience, benefits were expected to be high. The
PPAR for the 1976 Flood Damage Restoration Project recorded (pp. iii, 3): The economic
benefits of the project to date have been considerable. It has been estimated that the
flood damage prevented by the restored system in 1978 amounted to more than twice
the total cost of the project.
B. Economic Impact
No economic evaluation was undertaken as is the practice for this type of
emergency project.
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)
18



D. Studies
(Not Applicable)
7. Status of Covenants
DCA Section                    Covenant                  Deadline for Compliance               Status
3.01(c)         GOP to make available proceeds of the          Unspecified               In compliance.
Credit to the Provinces.
4.01(b)         GOP/Provincial govemments to maintain          Unspecified               In compliance.
accounts and records of project
expenditures.
4.01(c)         GOP/Provincial govemments to have        Within six months of end    Partial compliance; submission of
project accounts audited by independent     of each fiscal year    audit reports was chronically late.
auditors each year and submit audit report
to IDA.
Schedule 4(2)    GOP/Provincial govemments to set up           Unspecified                In compliance.
coordination cells with full-time staff.
Schedule 4(2)    Federal Cell to submit progress reports.      Each quarter               In compliance.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         Planned            Revised             Actual
Through Appraisal                                                NA.                NA.                 1.6
Appraisal through Board Approval                                 NA.                NA.                27.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness                             NA.                NA.                NA.
Supervision                                                      NA.                NA.                42.9 1/
Total                                                            NA.                NA.                72.1
1/ Including 8.3 staff weeks spent by FAO/CP on preparation of this PCR It is estimated that about 40% of the 38 staff weeks was
spent on actual field supervision.
19



B. Missions
Stage of Project  Month/Year   No. of    Days in   Specialization Represented 1/    Performance       Type of
Cycle                          Persons     Field                                 Rating Status 2/    Problem 3/
Identification    Oct. 88 (
Preparation       Oct. 88 (       4         23           AG, DEN, EN, EN                -
Appraisal         Oct. 88 (
Supervision 1     Sept. 89        2          6 4/             AG, EN                    1              Mgt(2)
Supervision 2      Feb. 90        2         8 4/              AG, EN                    I          Leg (2), Mgt(2),
F(2)
1/ AG = Agriculturist; DEN = Drainage Engineer, EN = Engineer.
2/ 1 = No significant problems.
3/ Mgt (2) - Project management - moderate problems. Leg (2) = Compliance with legal covenants - moderate problems.
F (2) - Availability of funds - moderate problems.
4/ Estimated; mission worked on a number of assignments but did not specify the time spent on each.
20



MAP SECTION






<   }t;-<-*--                                   5                                                                           fig               Trw    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 7130IR
I \ ~~~~~~~~~~~1988 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT A_ 
!                                        Elood ~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~ ~~SpKI A....  I  D." o-d R.-esolt  ",C SdUre  
I  S  L  A  M  I C  R  E  P.  j   \                                  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5eD S-r/C  188 l-rb (n.b)  ;load E,bo-l,-l,r     osnlCOIO
O  F                      ;/\_-Xn  oosD, rio.k_I.en,inl nore
ca   I    R   A    N                  \                   \I Dto  oos& TAJIKISTAN
j                 \                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F G H A N I S T A N                                               / *ho 
> S \ r t (P ~~~~~~~~~~~~iN                                                                      chnr\(_    
Nv L *9  %   pgl D  * *   2 ~~~~~~~\   r  /         -     r         \  _./  hDwD ^F^gdo^zs                    g    G/{G/F~~~~~~~~~D
hho~ ~~~~~v on                                                                                                            IFTT  *          onSo-**v   b>       AGr/r
i  0   Tu bol   U                      Kolo *                                *                < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <        8rm  DAM   AhD 8 Kohot   *        * *                     r        Gslo~~~~~~-    M1.1.  AENC
f   A    I   U    C    H/  /            T    A    N                       R   oo *f O V   I   N    C    f            D'  s olhsj E<_I                          JSLMABD4Al <I/A               t,Cn
*   KhvzdO'   z                       Kohlu          >  J         t- >  v    -                                  DA^*     /      ,   @           :,      SLo/dJ~~~~~~~j rv
< 2 ih<,robod _ _ ~~~~~~~~ ,f,f,// / ' U /\/ y ~~~~~~A fg.. om
~~~~~~*eA-4/z*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S'.-A
Ttw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. kbd h                                                                                                    Uoo  h.--l
An e^c       so        5                                                                                               
KPl KS d h Wrd Ib,i                                     
G. owp 114, do  o ,d 
ond Ka  t no-                                     
onIi p11 aol W   olw S.                                                                                                                                       2                                                                             <
Vob  onr lemht o ot                               s                                             M ltSs         O          100         50        200         250                                  }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~010 
M-VC- IW2



