Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2003 PAK
              (1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 28, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2003 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1989, between  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part B  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Borrower's Province of Punjab  (Punjab),  Province of Sind (Sind),
North West Frontier  Province  (NWFP)  and Province of Baluchistan
(Baluchistan), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Punjab, Sind, NWFP
and Baluchistan  a  portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith  among the Association,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP and Baluchistan;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "NHB" means the National Highway Board established under
the Borrower's Ministry of Communications and Works;
     (b)  "National Highway System" means  the system of highways,
bridges and other related  structures  designated as such pursuant
to a decision of the Borrower;
     (c)  "MWP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and Power;
     (d)  "FFC"  means  the  Federal  Flood  Cell  referred  to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association, on the one  hand,  and  Punjab,  Sind, NWFP and Balu-
chistan, on the other hand, of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "Punjab" means the Province  of Punjab, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (g)  "Sind" means  the  Province  of  Sind,  a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (h)  "NWFP"  means  the  North   West  Frontier  Province,  a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (i)  "Baluchistan"  means  the  Province  of  Baluchistan,  a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (j)  "Provinces" mean  collectively  Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP and
Baluchistan, and "Province" means each or any of the Provinces;
     (k)  "P&DB"  means  the  Planning  and  Development  Board of
Punjab;
     (l)  "P&DD" means the Planning  and Development Department of
Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be;
     (m)  "PID" means a Provincial Irrigation Department;
     (n)  "C&WD"  means  a  Provincial  Communications  and  Works
Department;
     (o)  "PFDRC" means each or any of the Provincial Flood Damage
Restoration Cells referred to in paragraph  2 (b) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
     (p)  "NHB Special Account" means  the account which NHB shall
open and maintain pursuant to  the  provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
Page  3
of this Agreement;
     (q)  "Punjab Special Account" means  the account which Punjab
shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b)  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  2.01  (c)  of  the Project
Agreement;
     (r)  "Sind Special  Account"  means  the  account  which Sind
shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b)  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  2.01  (c)  of  the Project
Agreement;
     (s)  "NWFP Special  Account"  means  the  account  which NWFP
shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b)  of  this  Agreement  and  Section  2.01  (c)  of  the Project
Agreement;
     (t)  "Baluchistan Special  Account"  means  the account which
Baluchistan shall open and maintain  pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of  this  Agreement  and  Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement; and
     (u)  "Special Accounts"  mean  collectively  the  NHB Special
Account, the Punjab Special Account, the Sind Special Account, the
NWFP Special  Account  and  the  Baluchistan  Special Account, and
"Special Account" means each or any of the Special Accounts.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment  Credit  Agreement,   an   amount   in  various  currencies
equivalent to thirty million  six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 30,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Project, cause NHB  to  open  and  maintain  in  dollars a special
account, and shall, for  the  purposes  of  Part B of the Project,
cause the  Provinces  to  open  and  maintain  in  dollars special
accounts, all  in  the  National  Bank  of  Pakistan  on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
Page  4
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1999  and  ending  March  15, 2024. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2009  shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%)  of  such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The following are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes  of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Director General, NHB, in  respect  of Part A of the
Project;
     (b)  the Chairman, P&DB, Punjab, in respect of those parts of
Part B of the Project for which Punjab is responsible;
     (c)  the  Additional  Chief  Secretary  (Development),  P&DD,
Sind, in respect of those parts of Part B of the Project for which
Sind is responsible;
Page  5
     (d)  the Additional Chief  Secretary,  P&DD, NWFP, in respect
of those  parts  of  Part  B  of  the  Project  for  which NWFP is
responsible; and
     (e)  the Additional  Chief  Secretary,  P&DD, Baluchistan, in
respect of  those  parts  of  Part  B  of  the  Project  for which
Baluchistan is responsible.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Part  A  of the Project through NHB
               with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
               with  appropriate   administrative,  financial  and
               engineering practices  and  shall provide, promptly
               as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and
               other resources required for Part A of the Project;
               and
         (ii)  without any limitation  or  restriction upon any of
               its other obligations  under the Development Credit
               Agreement, shall cause the  Provinces to perform in
               accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Project
               Agreement  all  the  obligations  of  the Provinces
               therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
               all  action,  including  the  provision  of  funds,
               facilities, services and other resources, necessary
               or appropriate to  enable  the Provinces to perform
               such obligations, and shall  not  take or permit to
               be  taken  any   action   which  would  prevent  or
               interfere with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall,  and shall cause the
Provinces to, carry out the  Project in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds of
the Credit:
          (i)  to   Punjab,   an   amount   equivalent   to  about
               SDR 17,290,000, for the  purposes of those parts of
               Part  B    of  the  Project  for  which  Punjab  is
               responsible;
         (ii)  to   Sind,   an    amount   equivalent   to   about
               SDR 6,880,000, for the  purposes  of those parts of
               Part  B  of   the   Project   for   which  Sind  is
               responsible;
        (iii)  to   NWFP,   an    amount   equivalent   to   about
               SDR 3,250,000, for the  purposes  of those parts of
               Part  B  of   the   Project   for   which  NWFP  is
               responsible; and
         (iv)  to  Baluchistan,  an  amount  equivalent  to  about
               SDR 700,000, for  the  purposes  of  those parts of
               Part B  of  the  Project  for  which Baluchistan is
               responsible.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the works and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part B  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried out by the
Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  in  respect  of  Part   A  of  the  Project  of  the
departments  or   agencies   of   the   Borrower,  including  NHB,
responsible for carrying out  Part  A  of  the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graphs (a) and (b)  (i)  of  this Section and those
               for the NHB  Special  Account  for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
     (a)  The Provinces shall have failed  to perform any of their
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall  have  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the
Provinces will be  able  to  perform  their  obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified  by the Provinces, and is legally
binding upon the Provinces in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division  or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary,  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMIC                          952-5634
               Islamabad
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  8
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ H.E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               29,000,000        72%
(2)  Consultants'                 540,000        90%
     services
(3)  Unallocated                1,060,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 30,600,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,120,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower
and the Provinces in carrying out their program of urgent restora-
tion of infrastructure damaged by the 1988 floods, and thereby (b)
to  facilitate  the  expeditious  resumption  of  vital government
services and commerce in the flood-affected areas.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Federal Restoration Works
Page  9
     Restoration of roads  forming  part  of  the National Highway
System, including reconstruction  of  bridges and provision and/or
reconstruction of culverts and other related structures.
Part B:   Provincial Restoration Works
     Restoration of:
          (i)  irrigation, drainage  and  flood  protection works;
               and
         (ii)  roads,  other  than  those   forming  part  of  the
               National Highway  System,  including reconstruction
               of bridges and  provision  and/or reconstruction of
               culverts and other related structures.
                     *     *    *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph  2  below, civil works may be
procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of competitive bid-
ding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.   Civil works,  including  substantial  quantities of earthwork
with long leads, underwater  excavation, or repair and replacement
of hydraulic  structures,  and  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $12,000,000 in the  aggregate, may be carried out by
force account.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to  be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
such Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made  out  of a Special Account, such pro-
cedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as  part  of the evidence to be furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
        (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
Page  10
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
3.   For the purposes of  these  provisions, the term "Guidelines"
means the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist NHB  and the Provinces in preparing tender
documents, procuring contracts  and  supervising construction, the
Borrower shall  employ  engineering  consultants  whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   Project Implementation:
     (a)  Responsibility for implementation  of  the Project shall
be assigned as follows:
          (i)  for the road works under  Part A of the Project, to
               NHB;
         (ii)  for the irrigation,  drainage  and flood protection
               works under Part B (i) of the Project, to each PID;
               and
        (iii)  for  the  road  works  under  Part  B  (ii)  of the
               Project, to each C&WD.
     (b)  NHB, each PID and each  C&WD shall, within its sphere of
responsibility, inter alia: (i) prepare plans, designs, and tender
documents  in   accordance   with   approved   specifications  and
procedures; (ii) carry out  the  restoration works; (iii) maintain
separate project accounts; (iv)  certify  the quantity and quality
of completed civil works; (v) prepare withdrawal applications; and
(vi) make an appropriate input to the progress reports referred to
in paragraph 3 of this  Schedule.   NHB shall also be responsible,
with respect to its part of the Project, for operating its Special
Account  and  for   submitting   withdrawal  applications  to  the
Association.
2.   Project Coordination:
     (a)  Federal Flood  Cell.  At  the  federal  level, a Federal
Flood Cell  (FFC)  in  MWP  shall  coordinate  and monitor overall
Project implementation.   The  FFC  shall  be  headed by a Federal
Project Coordinator assisted by  suitable professional and support
staff.  The  FFC  shall,  inter  alia:  (i)  appoint  the  Project
consultants; (ii) prepare  and  submit  withdrawal applications to
the  Association  in  respect  of  expenditures  for  consultants'
services; (iii) monitor disbursements  and auditing of the Project
accounts; (iv) on the basis of the input made by NHB, each PID and
each C&WD, prepare and furnish to the Association, in consolidated
form, the progress  reports  referred  to  in  paragraph 3 of this
Schedule; and (v) on behalf  of  the Borrower, prepare and furnish
to the  Association  the  Project  Completion  Report  referred in
Section 9.06 (e) of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Provincial  Flood  Damage  Restoration  Cells.  At  each
provincial  level,  a  Provincial  Flood  Damage  Restoration Cell
(PFDRC) in PID  shall  coordinate  overall Project implementation.
Page  11
The PFDRC shall  be  headed  by  a  Provincial Project Coordinator
assisted by suitable  professional  and  support  staff. The PFDRC
shall, inter alia: (i)  operate  the  relevant Special Account and
submit withdrawal applications  to  the  Association; (ii) monitor
the auditing of the Project accounts; (iii) prepare and furnish to
FFC, within 30 days of each reporting period, quarterly and annual
progress reports; and  (iv)  make  other  appropriate input to the
reports referred  to  in  paragraphs  2  (a)  (iv)  and  3 of this
Schedule.
3.   Progress Reports:
     Pursuant to Section 9.06  of  the General Conditions, the FFC
shall: (a) not later than  sixty  (60)  days after the end of each
quarter, beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 1989, furnish
to the Association  a  progress  report  on  the  Project for such
quarter; and (b) not later than  sixty  (60) days after the end of
each calendar year, beginning  with  the  year ending December 31,
1989, furnish to the Association  a progress report on the Project
for such year.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means,  in respect of
NHB, an amount equivalent  to  $380,000  to  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account  and  deposited  in  the  NHB  Special  Account, in
respect of  Punjab,  an  amount  equivalent  to  $4,100,000  to be
withdrawn from the  Credit  Account  and  deposited  in the Punjab
Special Account,  in  respect  of  Sind,  an  amount equivalent to
$1,600,000 to be withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and deposited
in the  Sind  Special  Account,  in  respect  of  NWFP,  an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited  in  the  NWFP  Special   Account,  and  in  respect  of
Baluchistan, an amount equivalent to $170,000 to be withdrawn from
the  Credit  Account  and  deposited  in  the  Baluchistan Special
Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments  out  of   the   Special   Accounts  shall  be  made
exclusively  for  eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant  Authorized  Allocation  and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, NHB or the
concerned Province, as  the  case  may  be,  shall  furnish to the
Association a request or requests  for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the  aggregate  amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such  request  or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of NHB or  the  concerned  Province, as the case may be,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account such amount  or  amounts  as  the concerned Province shall
have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of  the  Special Account, NHB or
                the concerned Province, as the case may be,  shall
                furnish to the  Association  requests for deposits
Page  12
                into the Special Account  at such intervals as the
                Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, NHB
                or the concerned  Province,  as  the  case may be,
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and
                other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                this  Schedule  for  the  payment  or  payments in
                respect of  which  replenishment  is requested. On
                the basis of  each  such  request, the Association
                shall, on behalf of NHB or the concerned Province,
                as the  case  may  be,  withdraw  from  the Credit
                Account and deposit into  the Special Account such
                amount as NHB  or  the  concerned Province, as the
                case may be,  shall  have  requested  and as shall
                have  been  shown  by  said  documents  and  other
                evidence to  have  been  made  out  of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under the eligible  Category, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made  by  NHB  or the concerned Province, as
the case may be, out  of  a  Special Account, NHB or the concerned
Province,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall,  at  such  time  as the
Association shall reasonably  request,  furnish to the Association
such documents and other  evidence  showing  that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that  all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  NHB  or the
concerned Province, as the case  may  be, directly from the Credit
Account in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article V of the
General Conditions  and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Category  for  the  parts of the Project for
which NHB or  the  concerned  Province,  as  the  case  may be, is
responsible, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the  Association  pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with  respect  to  such  parts  of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent  of  twice  the  amount of the relevant
Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the   Credit  Account  of  the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Category for such parts  of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association  shall  specify  by notice to NHB or
the  concerned  Province,  as  the  case  may  be.    Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in  such  Special  Account  as of the date of
such notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account:  (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Association,  NHB  or  the concerned Province, as
the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
(A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Association may
request; or (B)  deposit  into  the  Special  Account  (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such  payment or the portion thereof not so
Page  13
eligible or justified.    Unless  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, no further  deposit  by  the  Association  into the Special
Account shall be made until NHB  or the concerned Province, as the
case may be, has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, NHB
or the concerned Province,  as  the  case  may be, shall, promptly
upon notice from the  Association,  refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  NHB or the concerned Province,  as the case may be, may,
upon notice to the Association,  refund  to the Association all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
