Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2003 PAK
              (1988 Flood Damage Restoration Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                                and
                         PROVINCE OF SIND
                                and
                   NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                                and
                      PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                       Dated April 28, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2003 PAK
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  April   28,  1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association),  on  the one hand, and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, PROVINCE OF SIND, NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
and PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN,  acting by their respective Governors
(the Provinces), on the other hand.
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic  Republic  of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association  has agreed to make available
to the Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to
thirty  million  six  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 30,600,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that the
Provinces  agree  to   undertake   such   obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  part of the proceeds  of  the  credit provided for under
Page  2
the Development Credit  Agreement  will  be  made available to the
Provinces; and
     WHEREAS the Provinces, in  consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The  Provinces  declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Part B of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and irrigation,  drainage  and  road  construction  practices, and
shall provide, or cause  to  be  provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other resources required for Part
B of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the Association and the Provinces
shall otherwise agree, the Provinces shall carry out Part B of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The Provinces shall, for the  purposes  of Part B of the
Project, open and  maintain  in  dollars  special  accounts in the
National Bank of Pakistan on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into,  and  payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Provinces  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces  shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Part B  of  the  Project, the performance of their
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  The Provinces shall  promptly  inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or  threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part  B  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit,  or  the  performance  by the Provinces of
their obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  Each  Province  shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition in respect of its
portion of Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Each Province shall:
          (i)  have such records  and  accounts  and those for its
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and accounts as well as the
               audit thereof, as  the  Association shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
the Provinces of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
Page  4
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Punjab:
          Planning and Development Board
          Government of Punjab
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT                   952-44868
                Lahore, Pakistan              Punjab Secretariat
                                              Lahore, Pakistan
     For Sind:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of Sind
          Karchi, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT SIND              952-23950
                Karachi, Pakistan
     For NWFP:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of North West Frontier Province
          Peshawar, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT                   952-52371
                Peshawar, Pakistan
     For Baluchistan:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of Baluchistan
          Quetta, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT                   952-7875
                Quetta, Pakistan
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any Province,  or by any Province on behalf
of the Borrower  under  the  Development  Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the  Chairman, Planning and Development Board
(in the case  of  Punjab)  or  by  the  Additional Chief Secretary
(Development), Planning and Development Department (in the case of
Sind)  or  by  the   Additional   Chief  Secretary,  Planning  and
Development Department (in  the  case  of  NWFP or Baluchistan) or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and
he shall furnish  to  the  Association  sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
Page  5
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ H.E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    PROVINCE OF SIND
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                    By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
