Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4794-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(
Chongqing Small Cities Infrastructure Improvement Project
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY 
 
Dated September 10, 2005                  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4794-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHONGQING 
MUNCIPALITY (Chongqing). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date
 herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of one hundred eighty million Dollars ($180,000,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Chongqing agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Chongqing, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Chongqing declares it commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and to this end shall carry out, 
and shall cause to be carried out by the Project Participants and Project Companies, the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and social and 
environment standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Chongqing shall otherwise agree, Chongqing shall carry out, 
Page  3
-
2
-
and shall cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
Chongqing shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 2.03. (a) Chongqing shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Chongqing shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Chongqing, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Chongqing on said plan. 
Section 2.04 (a) Chongqing shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Chongqing shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Chongqing of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Chongqing shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
Page  4
-
3
-
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) Chongqing 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Chongqing’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Chongqing shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, financial monitoring reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
financial management report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Chongqing 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Chongqing thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For Chongqing: 
 
Chongqing World Bank Project Management Office 
 
14/F Sun of Asia Mansion 
248 Renmin Road, Yuzhong District 
 
Chongqing, 400014 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-23-63877822 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Chongqing may 
be taken or executed by its Mayor or a Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as 
said Mayor or a Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Chongqing shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY 
 
By /s/ Mr. Huang Qifan  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procure
ment and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) Each contract for works estimated to 
cost less than $15,000,000 equivalent; and (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
less than $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and in accordance with the following additional 
provisions:  
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement 
shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall 
be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such 
newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline 
for such submission.   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Chongqing, as the case may 
be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the 
bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount 
of such security.    
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or Chongqing, as the 
case may be. 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
Page  10
-
9
-
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
2. Shopping
.
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract for the implementation of Part D of the Project and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
Chongqing shall maintain, and cause to be maintained, for purposes of carrying 
out the Project, the following organizations, with terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank, throughout the period of implementation of the Project:  
(a) 
The Leading Group, which is headed by the Deputy Mayor and 
composed of representatives from the Municipal Development and Reform Commission, 
Construction Commission, Finance Bureau and Environmental Protection Bureau, 
responsible for providing overall policy guidance and support for the preparation and 
implementation of the Project.   
(b) 
The Project Management Office, established in the Chongqing 
Development and Reform Commission, responsible for: (i) overall Project coordination, 
management and monitoring; (ii) annual budget preparation; (iii) Project-wide quality 
assurance; (iv) Project progress reporting; (v) interagency coordination and procurement 
support; and (vi) training facilitation.  
(c) 
The Project Participants’ Project Management Office established by each 
Project Participant, responsible for coordination and supervision of activities under the 
Project to be implemented within their jurisdiction.   
Resettlement, Environment Protection and Dam Safety Measures
2. Chongqing 
shall: 
(a) 
take, and shall cause the Project Participants and the Project Companies 
to take, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by 
persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or income or means of 
livelihood, temporarily or permanently in carrying out the Project;  
(b) 
for this purpose, implement, and cause the Project Participants and the 
Project Companies to implement the Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
provide, and cause the Project Participants and the Project Companies to 
provide, to the Bank for its prior concurrence, any proposed modification or waiver of the 
Resettlement Action Plan, prior to putting into effect such modification or waiver. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
3. 
Chongqing shall implement, and shall cause:  
(a) 
The Project Participants and the Project Companies to implement, the 
Environmental Management Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and designed to 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices 
and standards. 
(b) 
Dianjiang, Yongchuan and Jiulongpo districts to carry out the time-
bound dam safety measures set out in the Environmental Management Plan, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
Chongqing shall, and shall cause the Project Participants and the Project 
Companies to:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan and the achievement 
of the objectives of said plans, including the engagement of experienced and qualified 
independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2006, 
semi-annual reports of the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into 
said plans in order to achieve their respective objectives; and  
(c) 
introduce such revisions into said plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank. 
Financial Arrangements
5. 
Chongqing shall allocate to each Project Participant and to each of CESC and 
CWRC an amount of the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, without limitation, the following principal terms. 
(a) 
Chongqing shall make available the principal amount, which has been 
allocated to each Project Participant and to each of CESC and CWRC, in Dollars (on the 
date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn
 on account of the Project Companies’ Respective 
Parts of the Project; 
 
(b) 
Chongqing shall recover: (i) such principal amount so made available; and 
(ii) an amount equal to one percent (1%), or such other percentage as may be determined 
by the Bank from time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, of such 
principal amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years; 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(c) 
Chongqing shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and 
 
(d) 
Chongqing shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
6. Chongqing 
shall: 
 
(a) 
Lend the portion of the proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to 
CESC and CWRC pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Schedule for the purpose of carrying 
said Project Companies’ Respective Parts of the Project under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between Chongqing and each of CESC and CWRC: (i) on 
the principal terms set forth in paragraph 5 of this Schedule; and (ii) under conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, 
those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Cause each Project Participant to relend the portions of the proceeds of 
the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Schedule for the 
purposes of carrying out its Respective Project Companies’ Respective Parts of the 
Project, to such Project Companies under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between said Project Participant and each of its Respective Project Companies: (i) on the 
principal terms set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) under 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without 
limitation, those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
7. (a) Chongqing 
shall: 
(i) 
Cause each of CESC and CWRC to: (A) perform, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which 
it is a party, all of its obligations therein set forth; (B) take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable each of CESC and CWRC to perform such obligations; 
and (C) not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.  
(ii) 
Ensure that each Project Participant causes each of its Respective 
Project Companies to: (A) perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which said 
Project Company is a party, all of the obligations of said Project 
Company therein set forth; (B) take or cause to be taken all 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said Project 
Company to perform such obligations; and (C) not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.  
 (b) 
Chongqing 
shall: 
(i) 
Exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
entered into with each of CESC and CWRC in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Chongqing, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision 
thereof. 
(ii) 
Cause each Project Participant to exercise, its rights under each 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which said Project Participant is a 
party in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, 
the Bank, Chongqing and said Project Participant, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which said Project Participant is a 
party or any provision thereof. 
Part E of the Project 
8. 
Chongqing shall implement, and cause to be implemented, Part E of the Project 
in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank and shall ensure that each of the 
Project Participants fully cooperates in the carrying out of said Part of the Project.  Any 
proposed revision to said schedule shall be made only with the prior approval of the 
Bank.  
Operations and Maintenance Plans for Parts B, C and D of the Project 
9. 
Chongqing shall cause each of Nanchuan, Qianjiang, Rongchang, Shizhu, 
Tongnan, Yubei, CESC, NDCC, RWDC, SWPC and TRDC to: (a) furnish to the Bank by 
January 1, 2007, a plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, for the future operation and maintenance (including financing plan) of the flood 
control embankments, roads, structures and facilities constructed under Parts B, C and D 
of the Project; and (b) thereafter, implement said plan takin
g
into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon.  
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Water resources study
10. 
Chongqing shall: (a) commencing no later than March 1, 2006, carry out the 
following, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (which include 
formulation of policies and recommendations to implement the results): (i) a study on 
water resources management; and (ii) further assessment of all available water resources 
and the feasibility of exploiting additional water resources; (b) furnish to the Bank by 
January 1, 2007, the results of said study and assessment; and (c) by July 1, 2007, begin 
implementation of the recommendations of said study and assessment, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
Wastewater management plan
11. 
Chongqing shall: (a) prepare, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, a wastewater management and time-bound implementation plan for the 
towns to be served under the Tongguanyi Water Supply Scheme; (b) furnish said plan to 
the Bank by July 1, 2007; and (c) implement said plan taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon. 
Shortfalls
12. 
With respect to CWRC’s revenue requirements set forth in paragraphs 8 and 9 of 
Section II in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in the event that any review carried out under 
said paragraphs 8 and 9 shows that CWRC would not meet said requirements, Chongqing 
shall take all necessary measures to enable CWRC to meet said requirements, including 
without limitation, adjustment of the structure or levels of CWRC’s water supply charges.  
13. 
Chongqing shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, funds 
required for: (a) the construction and, upon completion of construction, the maintenance 
and operation of infrastructure under the Project; and (b) debt service payments under the 
Project by the Project Participants and Project Companies.  
Water Extraction Fee and Water Resource Fee
14. 
To encourage the conservation of water in water scarce areas, beginning on 
January 1, 2006, Chongqing shall take all necessary measures, and cause all necessary 
measures to be taken, to facilitate the increase in water extraction fee and/or water 
resource fee in such areas.  
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
Monitoring and Reporting
15. Chongqing 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on 
February 15, 2006, a semi-annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above (integrating the 
report furnished by the Project Companies pursuant to paragraph 5(e) of Section II in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement), each such report to: (i) set out physical progress in the 
implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester, and explain variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and (ii) set forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end 
of the period covered by said report;  
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank on or about December 31, 2008, a mid-term report on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank by March 31, 2009, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the mid-term report referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) except for 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between Chongqing and each of CESC and CWRC, the 
terms of availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in Section I of this 
Schedule 3; and (b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the 
conditions set forth in Section II of this Schedule 3. 
Section I
.
Terms of Availability
1. 
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by a Project Participant to 
each of its Respective Project Companies, shall be the amount equivalent in Dollars (on the 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn on account of its
 Project Company’s Respective Parts of the 
Project. 
2. 
Each Project Company shall repay: (a) such principal amount; and (b) an amount 
equal to one percent (1%), or such other percentage as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, of such principal 
amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; 
3. 
Each Project Company shall pay interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.  
4. 
Each Project Company shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount, 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum. 
Section II
.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal 
conditions. 
1. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: (a) carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and (b) without limitation 
on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that their Respective Parts of the 
Project shall be implemented in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
2. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to procure the goods, works and 
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and 
consultants’ services exclusively in the carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project.  
3. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, Chongqing and the 
Project Participant concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included in 
its Respective Parts of the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents. 
4. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods. 
5. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition. 
 
(b) 
Have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
Furnish to the Bank, Chongqing, and the Project Participant concerned as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so 
audited; an opinion on such statements by said auditors in such scope and detail as the 
Bank, Chongqing or the Project Participant concerned shall have reasonably requested; 
and all such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, 
as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or Chongqing shall reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
Prepare and furnish to the Bank, Chongqing and the Project Participant 
concerned all such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, Chongqing or the Project Participant 
concerned shall reasonably request. 
(e) 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank and Chongqing the carrying out of its 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
Respective Parts of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and 
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to 
Chongqing and furnish to Chongqing for its review, 
consolidation and submission to the Bank in accordance with 
paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement on or about  
January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on 
January 15, 2006, semi-annual reports integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (e) on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of each such report. 
Financial covenants
6. 
By January 1, 2006, CWRC shall establish separate commercial accounts and 
financial statements, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the construction of infrastructure under the Tongguanyi Water 
Supply Scheme and the Songji Water Supply Scheme and, upon completion of said 
construction, its ownership and maintenance of the structures, facilities and assets 
created.  
7. 
By January 1, 2006, YWDC shall establish separate commercial accounts and 
financial statements, satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the construction of infrastructure under Part A.3 of the Project 
(Yongchuan City water supply scheme) and, upon completion of said construction, its 
ownership and maintenance of the structures, facilities and assets created. 
8. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of CWRC, DWSC, 
TWSC and YWDC shall produce for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending 
on December 31, 2006, for DWSC and TWSC, and after its Fiscal Year ending on 
December 31, 2009, (or such other date as agreed with the Bank) for CWRC and YWDC, 
total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; and 
(ii) the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. 
(b) 
Before September 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, each of CWRC, DWSC, 
TWSC and YWDC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by said Project Company and 
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish 
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that said Project Company would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Project Company’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, said Project Company shall promptly take all necessary measures 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order 
to meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For purposes of this paragraph 8: 
(i) 
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income. 
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
(iii) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(iv) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 
3.3% per annum of the average current gross value of the 
concerned 
Project Company’s fixed assets in operation, or other 
basis acceptable to the Bank but excluding interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(v) 
The average current gross value of the concerned Project 
Company’s fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one 
half of the sum of the gross value of said Project Company’s 
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the 
fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
(vi) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph 8 it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
 
(e) 
With respect to CWRC and YWDC, all definitions set out in paragraph 
8(d) of this Schedule shall be deemed to refer only to the water supply unit in and 
operations of CWRC and YWDC. 
9. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of DWSC, CWRC, 
TWSC and YWDC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues 
and expenditures of the such Project Company shows that the estimated net revenues of 
such Project Company for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service requirements of said Project Company in 
such year on all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project Company 
concerned maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the 
date on which it is originally incurred. 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(vi) 
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Project Company concerned not earlier than twelve (12) months 
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the 
Bank and said Project Company accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified the Project Company of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of the Project Company. 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph 9 it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
(c) 
With respect to CWRC and YWDC, all definitions set out in paragraph 
9(b) of this Schedule shall be deemed to refer only to the water supply unit in and 
operations of CWRC and YWDC. 
10. 
The Project Participant and Chongqing, as the case may be, shall have the right to 
suspend or terminate the right of a Project Company to the use of the proceeds of the loan 
made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said Project Company upon 
failure by such Project Company to perform its obligations under such agreement.    
 
