Document of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1927-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
October 21, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00                 =  Rp 415
1 Rupiah                =  $0.0024
1 million Rupiah        =  $2,415
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS  -  National Planning Council
BCE       -  Base Cost Estimate
BPP       -  Badan Pengusahaan Pelabuhan (Tanjung Priok Port
Administration)
DGSC      -  Directorate General of Sea Communications
dwt       -  deadweight tons
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
MPW       -  Ministry of Public Works and Power
RLS       -  Regular Liner Service of Inter-Island Shipping Fleet
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                                   CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR THE TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $32 million to
help finance the Tanjung Priok Port Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 8.7 percent
per annum. The loan would be made to the Government and, until a planned
National Port Corporation (PERUM) is established, the Government would
transfer the proceeds of the proposed loan to the Tanjung Priok Port
Administration (BPP) under budgetary procedures without any charge. When
the PERUM is set up, BPP will assume as debt at 12 percent interest per
annum and with repayment terms similar to those of the Bank loan the
amount of the proposed Bank loan already drawn down as well as the balance
of the loan as and when it is utilized to help finance the project. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Public Sector Investment
and Financial Resources in Indonesia" of May 24, 1976 (1187-IND) evaluated
and analyzed Indonesia's public sector investment programs in relation to
the resource availabilities in the next three years. Country data are shown
in Annex I.
3.        In most respects, Indonesia's economic performance over the last
several years has been impressive. GNP growth has averaged 7.5 percent
despite the ups and downs of the international economy, to which Indonesia,
being an open economy, is vulnerable. The rates of investment and national
savings have risen rapidly, and were both around 19 percent of the GNP in
1974. Net foreign transfers have correspondingly declined as a proportion
of GNP. Agricultural output has expanded at an average rate of 4 to 5 per-
cent (with rice production expanding in step), which must be regarded as a
very satisfactory growth rate. Modern industry has been set up, and pro-
duction of fertilizer and cement is expanding at a rate so that within the
next two or three years the country is expected to be self-sufficient.
Transport, power and telecommunications systems and other infrastructure
have been improved and strengthened. In short, in its third year of the
Second Development Plan (1974-79), the economy is basically robust and
provides a sharp contrast to the situation less than a decade ago.
/1 This part is essentially the same as that included in the President's
Report on the Second Urban Development Project (P-1919-IND).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        Indonesia, however, is still a very poor country.     The increase in
oil income due to successive price increases in the past few years, though
substantial and valuable, amounted only to about $20 per capita. The popula-
tion growth rate, with a declining death rate, is rising and is currently
estimated at 2.5 percent, and population pressure on Java has been growing.
Many new employment opportunities have been created but much more needs to be
done to provide employment for new entrants into the labor force and reduce
existing unemployment and underemployment. General nutrition standards have
probably improved, but real wage rates for unskilled labor are still among
the lowest in the region, and have shown only a modest improvement. The
Government is committed to the alleviation of these problems. Projects to
develop the other islands, ameliorate the lot of the poor farmers, encourage
self-help in rural development and improve general living conditions are
receiving the Government's closest attention.    Compared to the First Develop-
ment Plan (1969-74), the strategy in the Second Plan is much more socially
oriented. However, resources devoted to such projects are still quite
small.
5.        The country's resource position, balance of payments and the Govern-
ment's budgetary situation have been dominated in the last two to three years
by the developments in the oil sector. First, there were the successive
increases in the price of oil in 1973 and 1974, which resulted in its quadru-
pling to $12.60 per barrel within a matter of months. With this increase, by
mid-1974 the balance of payments and budgetary position of the Government
appeared to have improved substantially. A large increase in the foreign
exchange reserves and, for the first time, in 1974/75 /L a substantial budget
surplus amounting to Rp 325 billion (about $800 million) were anticipated.
6.        In the course of that year, the Government adjusted its expenditure
plans. Most items in the development budget were revised upwards, some very
substantially, to utilize the prospective surplus. On the current expenditure
side, a large and much needed increase in civil servants' salaries was granted.
Over the first six months of the fiscal year, the country's foreign exchange
reserves registered an increase of $650 million from a level of $930 million
at the start of 1974/75.
7.        In October 1974, however, the first signs appeared of what turned
out to be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national
oil company. PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment
program financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. With the
initial signs of a recession, monetary institutions in the industrialized
countries became restrictive, credit became more difficult to obtain and
PERTAMINA began experiencing serious financial problems. In the third quar-
ter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax it had
collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies; by the end
of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 billion ($830 million) had been so with-
held and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early in 1975,
PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks, and the Govern-
ment stepped in to stem an incipient crisis and took decisive action. All
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.



- 3 -
independent foreign borrowing by PERTAMINA and other public enterprises
was banned and Bank Indonesia was given sole authority to contract foreign
obligations. The Government instructed Bank Indonesia to provide the funds
needed to meet PERTAMINA's external obligations, undertook a comprehensive
review of the oil company's investment projects and began'the process of
reducing and replanning the company's investment program and of cancelling
and renegotiating many of the related procurement contracts. In the course
of 1975, the Government also initiated the reorganization of the oil company,
and in March 1976, replaced its top management.
8.        At about the same time, the recession in the industrialized coun-
tries began to affect petroleum consumption and oil sales from Indonesia
began to suffer. Non-oil exports, particularly those of timber and rubber,
also began to decline. The volume of oil production (domestic consumption
being relatively small) declined sharply, to less than 1.3 million barrels
per day (bpd) compared to 1.45 million bpd in the first six months of 1974.
In the 1974/75 fiscal year, there was a shortfall of about $200 million in
net oil exports from the levels projected early in the year, and non-oil
exports failed to increase at all.
9.        These two factors combined to create considerable financial
difficulties for the Government of Indonesia. The foreign exchange
reserves gained in the first half of the year were lost in the second; by
March 31, 1975 these ceserves had declined to the level of a year earlier
(i.e. $920 million). On the domestic front, the Government, after the
promise of a very large expansion in development expenditures, had once
again to revise its plans, this time downwards. A substantial part of the
expenditure authorizations for the 1974/75 budget had to be carried over
into the next fiscal year, and some other expenditures, relating mainly to
subsidies on fertilizer and rice, had to be financed through Bank Indonesia
credit. In spite of the shortfall in budgetary revenues and the administra-
tive difficulties involved in the implementation of some projects, total
development expenditures in 1974/75 amounted to Rp 770 billion ($1.9 bil-
lion), about 60 percent higher than the level in the previous year (about
20 percent in real terms).
10.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange
reserves declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital
inflows, which included two syndicated public borrowings (totalling
$575 million) from the international capital market. With continuing
recessionary conditions in Indonesia's principal markets, exports failed
to increase while imports rose again (about 30 percent on an annual basis).
Debt service payments on behalf of PERTAMINA were also very large (about
$1 billion). In the second half of 1975/76, there was no appreciable
change in export earnings, but imports and debt service payments were lower
and there was only a small reduction in capital inflows (two more cash
loans, amounting to $475 million, were raised). The country's foreign
exchange reserve position was, therefore, relatively stable in this period
and the decline in the reserves for the year as a whole amountecl to $360
million.



- 4 -
11.       Public sector investments continued to rise rapidly in 1975/76.
The Government's development expenditures amounted to over $3 billion
(Rp 1.27 trillion), including foreign project financing totalling $925 mil-
lion and fertilizer subsidies amounting to $320 million. This is more than
two and one-half times the expenditures in 1973/74; when adjusted for price
changes it still represents an increase of about 60 percent. A further
increase of 50 percent in development expenditures is budgeted for 1976/77.
12.       Resources for the Government's own investment plans (excluding
government-owned enterprises) have been adequate so far. However, as stated
above, the Government has had to borrow over $1 billion on commercial terms
and has had to divert substantial, additional financial resources to complet-
ing PERTAMINA's investment projects which could not economically be reduced
further or abandoned. A considerable share of these investments was also
financed through domestic credit expansion. Despite a substantial decrease
in foreign exchange reserves, overall liquidity increased by over 20 percent
which, in turn, contributed to domestic inflation at the rate of 20 percent
in 1975/76, a rate higher than that prevailing in Indonesia's principal
trade partners and competitors.
13.       The recent financial difficulties will affect Indonesia's external
public debt service obligations during the rest of the decade. Debt service
payments over the next several years will be much larger than previously
envisaged as a result of large commercial borrowings in 1975 and 1976 (most
but not all of which related to PERTAMINA's obligations and projects) by the
Government. Debt service in 1976 is now estimated at about $800 million,
which would be about 14 percent of the value of projected exports, with oil
exports on a net basis, i.e. net of foreign costs of production and distribu-
tion and foreign investment income. Debt service payments on all loans
contracted up to December 31, 1975 are likely to reach $1.25 billion by 1978,
before declining as shorter-term maturities are paid off. This excludes obli-
gations contracted by PERTAMINA on account of oil tankers which are currently
being renegotiated. This enlarged debt service will, in future years, sharply
reduce net resource transfers which were of the order of $500-600 million in
1973 and 1974, and between $1 and $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. To keep the
debt service burden manageable, recourse to medium-term commercial borrowing
in the next few years will, therefore, have to be kept to a minimum, and
certainly much below the 1975 and expected 1976 levels.
14.       Confronted with these problems the Government has taken a series
of important, far-reaching and difficult decisions. It has decided that
foreign borrowing must be cut back sharply from the 1976 projected level of
about $3.4 billion to about $2 billion in each of the years 1977 and 1978
before being allowed to rise again to about $3 billion in 1980. With a
view to keeping the debt service burden manageable, it aims to effect most
of the reduction through a sharp cut in the least concessionary borrowings,
especially in the early years. On these assumptions, the debt service
ratio is expected to reach 18 percent in 1980 and about the same in 1985.



15.       In view of the expected sharp decline in the net foreign
resource transfers, the Government has also decided to increase domestic
revenues in the next few years much faster than was originallv contem-
plated and to levels much higher than those likely to result from a mere
continuation of the existing tax policies and procedures. The Government
also plans to reduce selectively the aggregate size of the proposed public
sector investment program. These actions are aimed at shifting the balance
of the public sector investment program back towards a greater emphasis on
directly improving the income earning opportunities, productivity and
living conditions of the mass of the population.
16.       While the recent balance of payments and budgetary difficulties
have forced changes in many of the public sector plans, the balance of
payments position in 1976/77 is likely to be much better than in the recent
past and the long-term prospects for Indonesia's development remain good.
Recovery from the recession appears to be underway in most industrialized
countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil exports from
Indonesia have been rising in recent months. The Government has succeeded
in negotiating a further increase in its share of the oil income. Rice
stocks are normal and imports are expected to remain at the average level
of recent years (Government estimate is 1.4 million tons) but prices are
likely to be considerably lower. The country has sizeable stocks of ferti-
lizer and only small amounts are expected to be imported.
17.       The country has a substantial potential for productive investment,
employment and income growth. In agriculture vigorous pursuit of ongoing
programs in irrigation, development of new plant varieties and technical
services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc. promise to yield
high returns. In addition, there are opportunities for the development of
new areas of food and plantation crops, partly in conjunction with a grow-
ing transmigration program. The industrial potential is good, both for
modern, capital intensive natural resource-based activities and for more
labor intensive, partly export-oriented industries.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for its presently'underemployed and growing
labor force. To assist the Government in attaining its goals the Bank is
planning to maintain its lending to Indonesia at present levels and in
particular to support projects designed to: improve agricultural credit,
research and extension; rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems; improve
nutritional levels; assist transmigration and other land development outside
Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employment
in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-scale
industries; develop the electric power system; construct urgently needed
water supply and transport facilities; and expand the national family
planning program.



- 6 -
19.       As of September 30, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits
totalling $561.8 million and 18 Bank loans amounting to $927 million.    At
that date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974 the
Bank Group accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total (disbursed)
outstanding public debt; by 1978 it is expected to account for 12 percent
of total outstanding debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations.
A summary statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of
August 31, 1976, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
contained in Annex II.
20.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
six for the rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation systems, two for
fisheries, and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar, smallholder tea and
rubber, and transmigration. In the industrial sector, the Bank has assisted
in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production and distribution
capacity, three for development finance companies (Government-owned and
private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of industrial enter-
prises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and credits
have also been extended to the education, telecommunications, tourism, power,
population, urban and water supply sectors. Also a loan was extended for a
national resource survey and mapping project and four credits for technical
assistance to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its development
programs and projects.
21.       The Bank's previous assistance in the transport sector consisted
of three credits and one loan totalling $206 million for highway projects,
one credit of $8.5 million for inter-island fleet rehabilitation, and loans
of $54 million for a second shipping project, $48 million for the Indonesian
railways project and $68 million for a fertilizer distribution project. Pro-
gress on the first three of these projects has been slow, but no major diffi-
culties have arisen. Technical expertise in transportation has also been
financed under the technical assistance credits to Indonesia.
22.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels.
The Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the delays in
project execution caused by cumbersome procedures and the need to establish
an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning
Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank has arranged for assistance
under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a
monitoring and control system, which it is hoped will lead to better project
administration.
23.       Future Bank lending gives high priority to the agricultural sector
through support of projects to increase rice and other crop production and
the expansion of resettlement efforts from Java to Sumatera. In addition,
the program provides for further socially-oriented projects in the fields



-7-
of water supply and population. Projects for nucleus estates, electric
power, small business development, irrigation and nutrition are expected
to be ready for presentation in the next few months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND PORTS
General
24.       For Indonesia the balanced growth of its economy rests heavily
on improvements in the transport sector. The nation's road and rail
systems are mainly concentrated, like its population, in Java which has
33 and 70 percent respectively of the total networks. Roads provide the
basic links on other islands, though the density of these networks is
much lower than in Java. Sumatera is also served by 2,000 km of railways.
Where rivers are navigable (South Sumatera, Kalimantan, West Irian), they
carry significant volumes of logs. There are also about 450 km of petro-
leum pipelines in operation or under construction in south-central Java.
Freight movement among the islands is by interisland shipping which also
carries some traffic between points on the same islands. Air transport is
developing rapidly but is almost exclusively for passenger use, both inter-
national and interisland. The largest single item in freight transport,
measured in ton-km, is the movement of petroleum products by domestic ship-
ping; without this traffic, road and sea traffic are roughly equal and
each about three times the amount of rail traffic. For passenger traffic,
road transport accounts for more than half the total km, with rail contri-
buting the second largest share.
25.       The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960s, but grew at nearly 11 percent a year (in constant prices) over
the First Plan Period (1969-1974). The Government's policy in the First
Plan emphasized rehabilitation of transport facilities. Highway traffic
has since increased substantially, an indicator being that 70 percent more
registered vehicles are on the roads today than in 1970. The primary aim
of the Government's Second plan in the transport sector is to create sub-
stantial capacity increases both by additional investment and by improved
productivity, the latter being achieved by continuing rehabilitation work
and further strengthening sectoral institutions and organizations.
26.       As a result of its enlarged oil income, the Government expanded
expenditure under the 1974/75 and 1975/76 development budgets over the
levels projected in the Second Plan. The increase for transport was almost
the same as for the budget as a whole and, other than differential accelera-
tion of expenditures in some transport activities, the Government has not
indicated a shift in its sectoral strategy. Over the Second Plan period,
investments for transport in the public sector (assuming continuation of
development expenditures at increased levels) and in the private sector are
estimated at about Rp 1,800 billion ($4.3 billion) in 1973 prices, roughly



- 8 -
17 percent of total investments; about 56 percent of this will flow through
the public sector under various central and local government development
budgets with the remainder particularly the purchase of road and other trans-
port vehicles, financed privately.
Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
27.       Responsiblity for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between the Ministry of Public Works
and Power (MPW) for highways and the Ministry of Communications, Transport
and Tourism (MOC) for other modes of transport. Investment proposals are
formulated at the modal level in these ministries and then submitted to
BAPPENAS for review and approval.
28.       Planning of highways in the MPW's Directorate-General of Highways
has been significantly strengthened in recent years with the assistance of
the UNDP-financed Highways Planning Advisory Team. Planning for railways
will be improved under the Bank loan for the railways, for shipping under
the recent Bank loan for the second shipping project, and national ports
planning, which is urgently needed, is dealt with in this proposed project
for the port of Tanjung Priok. Effective transport planning is now hindered
by the limited and irregular flow of data; the Government is pursuing several
means to improve the availability of information, among them the provision
of an expert financed under the Technical Assistance Credit No. 275-IND to
work with MOC on data problems.
29.       The Government largely controls the operation of the transport
system, not only through the provision of infrastructure and the owner-
ship of important enterprises in all modes of transport, but also through
rate setting and other regulatory activities. While it has not formulated
an explicit transport policy, the Government has identified areas requir-
ing special attention, particularly financial objectives and the control of
public sector transport firms and pricing policies. At present, accounting
systems vary widely among sectoral enterprises so that financial performance
cannot be readily compared nor standards set. Frequently, Government deci-
sions on rates has to be made without analysis of costs, demand factors or
the effect on competing modes of transport. Experts, financed under the
Technical Assistance Credit, are now advising MOC in these areas in order
to make the Government's activities more consistent and effective, improve
the return on its investments in the sector and ensure that all relevant
economic factors are considered in transport pricing.
Port Facilities in Indonesia
30.       Indonesia has about 300 ports scattered over the archipelago,
but about 70 percent of traffic volume is concentrated in ten of them.
The major ports are Tanjung Priok and Surabaya in Java; Belawan, Palembang
and Panjang in Sumatera; Banjarmasin and Balikpapan in Kalimantan; and
Ujung Pandang (Makasar) in Sulawesi. Tanjung Priok, the largest general



- 9 -
cargo port which serves the Jakarta metropolitan area and West Java, handles
about 30 percent of the country's general cargo trade and is an important
distribution center for imports of consumer and industrial goods.
31.       Studies of short-term port requirements have been completed by
consultants and minor works to improve operations in some of the main ports
have been undertaken with assistance from the ADB, the Netherlands and Japan.
Preparation of master plans for the ports of Surabaya, Belawan and Panjang
have been completed by consultants financed by UNDP with ADB as executing
agency. A project for expansion of Surabaya and Belawan is under preparation
for possible ADB financing. Also, a master plan for development of Palembang
is being drawn up by consultants.
32.       Currently Tanjung Priok has 3,250 m of berths for the deepsea trade
and 2,100 m of berths for regional and interisland trade; usable berthing
space is somewhat less due to the location of the transit sheds. Two berths
in the deepsea harbor are restricted to the handling of bulk cement and ferti-
lizer. Transit sheds are satisfactory, and there are ample warehousing and
open storage areas in both deepsea and regional harbors. A separate oil
basin provides, in addition to four oil berths, a berth for bulk wheat imports.
All the basins are protected by adequate breakwaters and maintenance dredging
requirements are not excessive. While roads inside the port are generally
satisfactory, land access to the port needs to be improved. Rail access is
available, but little used except for petroleum products and fertilizer traf-
fic. There are sufficient tugs and floating craft available, but mechanical
equipment and pallets for handling general cargo are inadequate.
33.       In 1973, the need to import large volumes of rice and wheat resulted
in severe congestion in Tanjung Priok which restricted the country's ability
to meet the import requirements for foodgrains, fertilizer, steel and cement.
Short-term measures, subsequently taken under an ADB-financed project included
some rehabilitation of berth aprons and sheds, which substantially improved
the port's operations and, together with a leveling off of traffic growth,
greatly reduced ship-waiting time. To meet the longer-term need for develop-
ment of Tanjung Priok, the Government initiated a master plan study of the
port by IDA-financed consultants (Credits 216-IND and 275-IND), which was
completed in September 1975. Following the experiences in 1973, the Govern-
ment considered the need for additional port capacity so acute that in June
1974 it began constructing additional berths at Basin III (East) which are
consistent with the master plan.
Organization
34.       Government Organization for Ports.   The Port Administration of
Tanjung Priok (Baden Pengusahaan Pelabuhan-BPP) is presently a department
of the Directorate of Ports and Dredging in the Directorate General of Sea
Communications (DSGC) under the Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Tourism (MOC).



- 10 -
35.       The Government has decided to establish a "Perusahaan Umum" (PERUM),
a Government owned corporation, to control port and dredging activities in
all ports visited by Regular Liner Service (RLS) ships; for control of the
remaining ports, a Port Directorate would be created within the Directorate
General of Sea Communications (DGSC) to which Directorate General the PERUM
would also be responsible. The PERUM is expected to be operative by June 30,
1978. The proposed reorganization would permit greater emphasis on the
planning of port development, which is presently inadequate.
36.       There is an evident need to improve the operations of many major and
minor ports and a number of studies have been made, but little has actually
been done. In order to increase the efficiency of the ports, it was agreed
that the proposed PERUM and ports directorate would (Sections 3.01(d) and 3.03
of the Loan Agreement):
(i) undertake a survey of the ports served by the Regular Liner
Service (RLS), recommend improvements necessary to expedite
ship turnaround time, and prepare an outline of the work
required;
(ii) establish an adequately staffed port planning organization; and
(iii) update and complete an inventory of facilities at all exisiting
ports for which it is responsible.
37.       Tanjung Priok Port (BPP).    BPP is headed by a Port Administrator
and has a Secretariat responsible for administration as well as legal and
personnel matters, a planning and project unit, two security units and six
operating divisions. Total personnel is about 3,550 of which some 2,200
are maintenance crews or security guards. A separate organization, Usaha
Karya (UKA), controlled by BPP, is responsible for registration and alloca-
tion of cargo-handling labor to operating companies.
38.       BPP has markedly improved port operations since 1973 with the aid
of the ADB-financed project and is, in general, an efficient organization,
albeit somewhat overstaffed. It lacks skilled tradesmen and equipment opera-
tors; training to correct this is included in the proposed project.
39.       BPP's main problems are that its financial relations with Govern-
ment are unsatisfactory and its current methods of controlling operations
are overcentralized. At present it cannot borrow money in its own name,
and all funds for capital improvements and additions-are channelled through
MOC's budget. There are generally no budgetary carry-over arrangements from
year to year, although this has recently been arranged for the ongoing work
in Basin III. Funds for capital works including the proceeds of inter-
national loans are made available to the port without interest or obligation
to repay. When the PERUM is established BPP will become a part of it but
will have full responsibility for the management and operation of its
assets (including procurement), for the selection of its officers and staff



- 11 -
within the approved establishment, and for the planning and implementation
of its future development, subject only to a reasonable degree of supervi-
sion by the PERUM and approval of its budgets. BPP will have timely access
to sufficient funds to carry out its day-to-day operation and its develop-
ment programs and would be subject to audit (Para. 1 of Schedule 5 to the
Loan Agreement). It will be able to borrow funds and will be required to
achieve a satisfactory rate of return of the current net value of its fixed
assets in service.
Action Plan
40.       In order to carry out its responsibilities BPP will, under an
agreed Action Plan (see Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement), make changes in
its internal organization and streamline its administrative and operational
procedures. Control of day-to-day cargo handling operations and arrange-
ments for maintenance of equipment and facilities will be decentralized and
section heads will be given greater day-to-day decision making authority.
The present planning and budget bureau and the maintenance department are
to have separate heads and BPP will be given authority to dispose of scrap
material by auction subject to approval by the Minister of Communications,
Transport and Tourism.
41.       Customs Department.   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) maintains a
Cusioms Department (Customs) at Tanjung Priok and its relationship with BPP
is good. Customs' procedures are however, time consuming and cumbersome.
A study to recommend a solution to the excessive time required by Customs
to clear goods and consignees' papers will be undertaken under the project
(Part E(3) of Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement) and BPP shall implement
those recommendations of the study which are satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
Operating Procedures
42.       BPP is directly responsible for all shipping movements and alloca-
tions of berths. Actual physical movement of cargo from the ships' hold to
transit shed, open storage areas, or for direct delivery /1 is by 21 private
operating companies which are allocated transit sheds by BPP or by a unit
operated by BPP. The companies also function as agents for shipping com-
panies and are licensed by DGSC. All movements of cargo from transit sheds
and open storage, whether for delivery to consignees or for storage in ware-
houses is performed by forwarding companies, which also function as Custom's
agents; some of these companies are also-licensed by DGSC to operate ware-
houses and open storage areas. Labor is obtained from the pool operated by
UKA and one gang is provided for each of the ship's holds discharging cargo.
43.       The cargo handling system is sound in principle but movement of
cargo is slow and labor productivity low (about 5.7 tons/gang hour for break
/1 Direct delivery of break bulk general cargo is not permitted by Customs.



- 12 -
bulk general cargo). There are too many operating companies, which leads
to inefficiencies and not all of the berths allocated to a specific operat-
ing company are adjacent.
44.       To expedite cargo movement the port will be divided into opera-
tional areas, each within a customs fence and if a current effort to amal-
gamate operating companies is successful, groups of existing companies will
be formed to operate in each area; cargo would move freely within each area
from transit shed to warehouse after a specified free period in the transit
shed. Use of mechanical equipment and palletization of cargo would also be
emphasized to improve productivity.
45.       Some of the recommended improvements will not be easy to imple-
ment and will involve the forwarding companies, as weill as BPP and Customs.
Nevertheless, they should expedite cargo throughput and increase producti-
vity by about 40 percent by 1985. The Government has agreed that the
improved operating procedures (except amalgamation of operating companies)
will be implemented by BPP not later than June 30, 1978 (Para. 2(d) of
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement).
46.       A team of specialists from the port of Amsterdam, financed by
the Netherlands Government, has been advising BPP since 1973 on improve-
ments in operational procedures and organization. The team's recommenda-
tions are consistent with the above proposals, and those agreed by BPP but
not yet adopted would be implemented not later than 24 months after the
effective date of the proposed loan (Para. 2(e) of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement).
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Capital Investment Program
47.       The capital investment program for the Port of Tanjung Priok
totals about $205 million for the period 1976-83. It comprises Phase I
of the master plan including the ongoing construction in Basin III East,
which is the proposed project ($79.3 million); expenditures on Phase II
of the master plan ($120 million); continuing expenditures on the ADB-
financed improvements, began in 1972 and scheduled for completion in early
1977 ($4.5 million); and other minor construction works. Both Phase I
and Phase II are shown in the attached map (IBRD 1215D). The timing and
content of Phase II is closely linked to the rate of containerization of
break bulk general cargo. If this development is slower than expected,
Phase II may have to be advanced and would also contain greater provision
for handling break bulk and less for containerized general cargo.



- 13-
48.       The project was appraised in November 1975.    Negotiations were
held in Washington between June 21 and 29, 1976 and subsequently continued
in Jakarta in September 1976. General Hunholz, Secretary to the Director
General of Sea Communications, headed the Government delegation in Washington.
The Appraisal Report (No. 1124-IND) is being distributed separately and a
loan and project summary appears in Annex III.
The Project
49.       The project consists of Phase I of the master plan prepared by
consultants (Swan Wooster Engineering Co., Canada). It is designed to meet
anticipated traffic growth and to provide adequate facilities for container-
ized cargo. It includes:
(a) Basin III East
(i) completion of the 200 m container berth, 180 m
combination berth, and 520 m general cargo berths
(these are now under construction by the Government);
(ii)  three transit sheds, open storage areas, access
road, paving, services and necessary ancillary
works behind the general cargo berths;
(iii) paving of about 6 ha on and behind the container
and combination berths with ancillary works; and
(iv)  two 40-ton container cranes, specialized mobile
container handling equipment and mechanical
general cargo handling equipment.
(b) The Regional Harbor
(i) construction of 545 m of new berths with transit
shed, services, access road and ancillary works;
and
(ii)  provision of mechanical general cargo handling
equipment.
(c)  Land Access Improvements
(i) improvements to the main external access road to
the port and entrance gates; and
(ii)  new access roads in the port on the piers between
Basins I and II and Basins II and III.



- 14 -
(d) Provision of roads, utilities and houses on land to
be allocated by Jakarta City Council to relocate port
workers whose houses have to be demolished under Phase
II of the master plan.
(e) Engineering consultant services for (i) design and
supervision of the above items except item (a)(i)
and provision of general cargo and container hand-
ling mechanical equipment, and (ii) design of further
improvements to the external access road to be
included under Phase II of the master plan.
(f) Technical assistance and training for accounting,
labor, management, planning and customs procedures.
(g) A study of the appropriate distribution system for
the output of the Krakatau Steel Mill with particular
emphasis on the requirements of inter-island shipping.
Construction of the berths described in subpara. a(i) above was started
in 1974 and is being financed by the Government; the proposed loan would
finance other items in subparas. a(ii) through (g), except that construc-
tion of houses will also be financed by the Government. The proposed
additional facilities are designed to meet traffic requirements to about
1983. The second phase project which is expected to start in 1979 would
meet the traffic requirements after 1983.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $79.3 million, of
which $41.5 million would be in foreign exchange. The Government would
finance all local cost ($37.8 million), including land acquisition as well
as the foreign exchange cost ($9.5 million) of the ongoing construction
of the berths in Basin III. The financing plan includes provision for
physical contingencies and expected price increases. Physical contingen-
cies amount to 15 percent of the Base Cost Estimates (BCE). Expected
price increases were estimated to be 14 percent for 1976, 13 percent for
1977 and 12 percent for 1978 and 1979 (about 33% BCE) over the period
from mid-1975 to completion of construction.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $32.0 million would finance foreign
exchange costs accounting for about 66 percent of the cost of Bank-
financed project items and 40 percent of the total cost of the project.
The loan would be made to the Government and, until the PERUM is estab-
lished, the Government would transfer the proceeds of the proposed loan
to BPP under budgetary procedures without any charge; when the PERUM is
set up, BPP will assume as debt the amount of the proposed Bank loan



- 15 -
already drawn down as well as the balance of the loan as and when it is
utilized to help finance the project. These arrangements and the onlending
terms between the Borrower and BPP would then be incorporated in a subsidiary
loan agreement which would also provide for interest at 12 percent per annum
and repayment terms similar to those of the Bank loan. Submission of this
draft subsidiary loan agreement and of the details of the arrangements which
would be entered into by the Government and the PERUM, satisfactory to the
Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Execution
52.       The project would be carried out by BPP with the assistance of
consultants. BPP is establishing a project unit with adequate staff and
budget, responsible for project implementation. Improvements to the main
external roads will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public
Works and Power, the study on customs procedures will be carried out by
the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Tourism (MOC) in cooperation
with the Ministry of Finance, and the distribution system's study for the
product of the Krakatau Steel Mill by the Ministry of Industry in coopera-
tion with MOC. Consultants will be employed to help implement all of these
components of the project.
53.       Because of technical problems which have arisen during construc-
tion, completion of the ongoing civil works in Basin III being undertaken
by a local contractor with the assistance of consultants has been delayed
to October 1977. However, sufficient work should have been completed to
enable the Bank-financed works to commence in March 1977. Arrangements
have been made to ensure the availability of the land required for the
project by January 1977, except that the land required for the full develop-
ment of the container stacking area is not expected to be available until
about 1979. However, satisfactory container operations can commence by
transporting containers by road chassis and tractors to existing inland
container freight stations.
Consulting Services
54.       Swan Wooster Engineering Co. has been appointed by BPP for final
design and supervision of the Bank-financed project items except for procure-
ment of mobile container and general cargo mechanical handling equipment for
which BPP will prepare bidding documents subject to approval by the Bank.
The project includes a technical assistance and training progranm requiring
about 202 man-months of consultants' services at an estimated average cost
of $6,500 per man-month, the present rate in Indonesia for specialized
services of this kind. This technical assistance and training program would
cover: cargo handling, maintenance, accounting procedures, middle level
management training, container operations, customs prodecures, and planning
assistance for DGSC. All specialists would be appointed on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       The Bank financed project items would be executed under four
civil works contracts and three mechanical equipment procurement contracts.
All contracts except those for the civil works for roads and utilities for
housing would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement. In bid evaluation
qualified Indonesian firms and eligible joint ventures would be given a
7 1/2 percent preference on civil works contracts and the qualified domestic
manufacturers a margin of 15 percent or the actual customs duties, whichever
is lower, over the imported goods. The contract for procurement of the two
container cranes has already been let following international competitive
bidding procedures. All the works are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
56.       Disbursements for the project civil works would be on the basis of
50 percent of total costs, representing the estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent. For technical assistance services, training and procurement of
mechanical equipment and on account of non-Indonesian consultants, disburse-
ment will be made to meet 100 percent of foreign exchange costs. On account
of Indonesian consultants disbursements will be on the basis of 80 percent of
the total expenditures. The details of the estimated annual and cumulative
disbursements are shown in Annex III. Retroactive financing, amounting to
about $750,000, is recommended for expenditures incurred after September 30,
1975 for consulting design services and for the container crane contract
(Para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
Financial Evaluation
57.       General.   In general, the port's financial position is satisfac-
tory, although financial relations with the Government need to be altered
and the financial management and accounting staff needs to be strengthened.
Accounting procedures were improved in 1973-74 with the help of ADB-financed
technical assistance, but further refinements are required. Present tariffs
are adequate to cover all current operating costs but tariffs are not cost-
based. Under the Action Plan (Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement) BPP will
introduce accounting and costing systems under a schedule satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank and will also make arrangements for introducing
cost-based tariff rates. Technical assistance for the introduction of the
various changes proposed is included in the proposed project. The account-
ing staff is presently not adequate to carry out the proposed financial
reorganization. The Government has agreed that, based upon the recommenda-
tions of accounting consultants, the financial management and accounting
staff will be strengthened in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
58.       Past Earnings and Current Financial Positions.    Net income of BPP
before taxes amounted to Rp 7.2 billion (about $17 million) in 1975, but the
accounts show no interest expense since loans for capital investment have
been for the account of Government. Net income in the past five years has



- 17 -
been good despite the payment of a proportion of BPP's storage revenues
to private operating companies. This practice introduced in 1973, is
unreasonable and the Government has agreed to take measures to ensure
that, in future, BPP will retain all storage revenue and that cargo
handling service users will pay for such services direct to the operating
companies. The Government has also agreed to establish and maintain cost
based tariffs and charges for the services provided by cargo handling
companies (Section 4.12 of the Loan Agreement).
59.       In the past BPP has not paid income taxes, nor has it made the
required contributions to the National Development Fund in full; at the
same time it has not been paid by Government for cargo handling services
rendered to various government departments. Appropriate arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank will be made for the settlement of outstanding
claims and counterclaims between the Borrower and BPP. The Borrower will
also ensure that the amounts owned to BPP for services provided by BPP
to government agencies will be promptly paid when due (Sections 4.10 and
4.11 of the Loan Agreement).
60.       Future Financial Position.   It was agreed that BPP would
(a) achieve an annual rate of return on net fixed assets in use of not
less than 5 percent in 1977 through 1980 and not less than 7 percent there-
after (Section 4.09(a) of the Loan Agreement); (b) not incur any further
debt if its net fiscal revenues are less than 1.75 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year; and (c) limit invest-
ments to those included in the Master Plan up to the plan's completion
except for items not exceeding in the aggregate $1 million per annum in
order to ensure an adequate cash flow to meet the financing plan for the
project and BPP's operational needs. For the years 1976-82 the revenue
forecast assumes (a) overall tariff increases of 10 percent effective
September 1, 1979 and 20 percent effective September 1, 1980; (b) an up-
ward adjustment of storage and wharfage unit rates effective January 1,
1979 when cost-based tariffs become effective; (c) a leveling off of BPP's
expenditures for storage; and (d) interest payments on future long-term
debt including the current ADB loan and the proceeds of the proposed loan.
On the basis of these assumptions it is forecast that BPP's operating ratio
will range between 64 and 78 percent; maximum debt service coverage will
be 1.9 in 1982 and the debt/equity ratio will rise to only 38/62 in 1982,
all of which is satisfactory.
61.       Forecasts for the period 1976-82 indicate that BPP's internally
generated cash available after debt service and income tax payments will
total about Rp 22 billion ($53 million). However, Rp 9 billion ($22 mil-
lion) of this sum (representing 30.25 percent of profits) is payable to
the Government as a contribution to the National Development Fund, leaving
Rp 13 billion ($31 million) for port capital expenditure which will meet
about 19 percent of the total project cost. To ensure an adequate cash
position during 1976-82 government assistance to BPP will be required,
and the Government has agreed to this (Sections 3.07 and 4.08 of the
Loan Agreement). This is forecast at Rp 17.3 billion ($42 million) and
is assumed to be in the form of equity.



- 18 -
Benefits and Risks
62.       As previously noted, Tanjung Priok is the country's largest
general cargo port, not only serving West Java but also performing an
important distribution function for imported consumer and industrial goods
destined for other islands of the archipelago. The proposed project would
provide facilities for handling an increasing volume of containerized
general cargo, thereby reducing the turnabout time of container ships and
encouraging the use of larger and more efficient ships; these facilities
would be substantially lower in capital cost than equivalent break-bulk
facilities. Failure to carry out the proposed project would impose a
heavy cost and ultimately an upper limit on the growth of external trade
and inter-island traffic. This, in turn, would have a substantial impact
on the prosperity of the Jakarta metropolitan area and would also threaten
imported food and other essential supplies destined for West Java. The
full economic costs of such a course are not easy to calculate but they
are certainly very great. As a conservative measure of these economic
costs, the evaluation uses the additional ship waiting-time which would
result in the absence of the proposed project. The expected economic rate
of return calculated on this basis is 18 percent. The economic rate of
return was tested for sensitivity to changes in the values of the key
variables and, within a feasible range, was found to be sensitive only to
changes in capital costs. A 25 percent increase in capital costs would
reduce the economic rate of return to 14 percent.
63.       The traffic forecast is based on the underlying assumptions
regarding economic growth of the Second Development Plan (Repelita II) and
on forecast growth in population and personal income in West Java and the
metropolitan Jakarta area.
64.       The principal risk in the traffic forecast is that a smaller pro-
portion than forecast of the general cargo traffic will be containerized.
The effect of this would be to bring forward the need for additional break
bulk berths and to defer the need for further container development under
Phase II of the master plan. It would not, however, significantly affect
the justification of the proposed project. The provision in the project
of a combination berth which can be used for break bulk general cargo
reduces the risks in this regard.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
66.        Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 36, 39, 40, 41, 45, 46, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and
61 of this report. An additional condition of effectiveness provides that
the Government has made arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to make
available funds to BPP for carrying out BPP's parts of the project (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 21, 1976






AIINEY T
TABLE ]A                                 Page 1 Di . patges
INDONESIA               SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  K942)--                   - - - -  - - -  - -- -  - - -   - - -  - - - -  - -
---------------                        ~~~~~INDONESIA                         REFERENCE CCUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL      T904.3                                          POST RECENT
AGRIC.       279.8                        1 940       1 910   ESTIMATE           BANGLADESH      INDIA           PHILIPPINES-
GNP PER CAPI TA (US$)                         70.0       110.0        180.0                90.0        11I0. 0      230.0
PnPJL4TI0N AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)               9 5. 4      116.3       131 .6                10.8        5[s2.7       3 6. 9
POPULArION IIENsrTY
PER SALUARr K".                          50. 0       61.0         69.0                4 96.0       165.0       1 23. 0
PER SQ. KM. AGkICULTURAL LAND              ..        J05.0       426.0/a              692.0       290.0        279.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIR9TH RATE PER THOUSAND           46.c         4 5.9       4~2.9                50.2        42.17        44. 2
CRUOE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            25 Li        2 0.6       16.9                 22.9        1 8.8        1 3.?
14FANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           125.0 /0.b     .             .               140.0            *.         0.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)           hO.0         4~5.0       4i7.                 L~3.3        417.2       5 5. 6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8 A        0. 2        3 .1                 3. 1        2 .9         3. 3
POPULATION GRCATH AATE (I)
VT )TAL                                   2. 1         2. 0        2.5                  2.6          2.L         3. 0
URBAN                                      ..3.7 /a                L.1 /b                ..3.2                   4. 0
URBAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)               1L4         1.u /b       18.2                  .          19.8         2 (.6
AGE STRUCTUQE (PLRCENT)
0 TOl 14 YEA95                          4 2. 1/ 4Ah1.            44.1/a.c               .           1 .6       1a5.(i
15 TO 64 YEARS                           55.3 I       53.5        50.   a 4                        55.3         51 .6
65 TEARS 440 OVER                         2.6 /a       2.5         2.5 ~                 .3.1                    2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0 .8 /a      0.9         D.9/a, c              .            .8          ). 9
E2O0O0MIC DEeENDENCY RATIO                   1.b                      1.5                   .                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULAT IVE. THOU)              .        2 59. 3     L833.3                   I. 113 08 .0          (54.0
USERS  S% OF MAVRIEC WOMEN)                                                                                      2 ..  . 
4 PLOY MEN T
TOTAL LABOR FCRCE (TI'OUSANO)           34 600. 0         ..     401 00. 0           22 300. 0          .      1 2 30 0. 0
LABIR FORCE IN A.3RICULTURE (2)            68.0     . 0             6 2.0                11.0 a                    55.0 /a
UNEMPLJYED CS OF LABOR FORCE)                5.4          .           5.4/a.d              ...                      .0
INCOME DISTR19UTION
O OF PROVATr INCUME RECID VY-
HIGHEST   ql OF HCUSEHOLDS                 .             .        33.7"/a e            16.1I/a     2 5.O/a
HIGHEST 2n12 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 I..                     20__                23w         5.7
LOWEST   29    FHOUSEHOLDS                 ...                       8a                 79           ./
OF HCUSEHOLOS                                                            19. 1.  ~ .7 
CTSTR13UT10N -IF LAND OWNERSHIP
t OWNED BY TOP IU% OF OWNERS               48.0 /b        ...                            34.0/b        .
O OWNED at SMALLEST 10% OWNERS               3.0 7F       i..                              .oTh
HrALT.l AND NUYRITION
PJPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                41000.0 /d   27650.0     23880.0               7600.0/c    480C.0
POPULATIEN PER NURSING PERSON                 ..     980 10. 0    6960. C             72C30.o7~    s5110.0o
POPULATIO -0 ER HUSPITAL BED             1350.0       1120.0      1450.0 /a           tiizo.07~    1620.0        850.0
PEA CAPITA SUPPLY CF-
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)             89.0         8 9.0          .                             9 3. 0      100.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  4 3 .0       4 3. 0         .5 3. 0                                   45. 0
*0t WRIrH ANIMAL AND PULSE             15S. 0/a    1 4.0           .                   .         146.0       2 2. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .                         .....9.0
E'IUCA T I ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           5 9. 0       6 9. 0      64.0       ~        50.0O/V      68B. 0/b   1 08. 0/b
SECONOAkY SCHOOL                          6.0         12.0        12 20               15.07          .         48.07
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 1 2. 0       12. 0       12.0                1 0. 0       12. 0       1 0. 0
VOCATIONAL 'NROLLMENT
CS OF SEC'INOARY)                        2 0. 0      2 9.0        28.0                 1.0          6. 0/c      6.0 Ic
VOULT LITE2RRCY RATE (2)                   47F. 0If       ..        60. : a.                         33.0
HTUS IlAG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                  .                       1.6 /a                .
OCCUPIEC D.ELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED AATFR (2)                            .....                                         ...                   66.OI dje
A.CESS TO ELECTRICITY
CO OF ALL DAELLIP.GS)                                                                                          2 ..   ..   .. ?. 0/d
RJRAL DWELLTNGS CONNECTED
T) ELECTRICITY CX                          .            .           ....                                        6.0/d
'(ADIO 3ECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             7.0        114.U          .                   6.0        21.0        45.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               1.0          2.0         3.0o                 1.0         1.3          8.0
ELECTAICITO CA%H/YR PER CAP)                15.0        2 0. 0      27.0                 20.0       I114.3J     2 (5. 0
NEWSPRINT (qG/YR PER CAP)                   0. 2         C.2z        0.2                   .0 .3                  1 .2/If
SEE SO0lES ANY DEFINITIONS ON kCVEPSE



ANNEX 0If4    ae
Page 2o       ae
NOTES
Uness8 otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 19)68 and 1970 aed far Most Recent Esti,mate between
1971 and 1973.
-l The Phiiippieos has been selected as so objective Country fat its gesgesphicet simnilartty end because of it. nppseent advancd stage 5f econom
deco lpesnt.
UIDOESIA             1960    Ia  Encludes West [riac,     /b  1961;   Ic   1951-56;   /d  1962;    /e  196L-63;     f  15 yearn and over, ability to road or write
in either latin on tort-Latin cheracters.
1970    Ia   1961-71,   /b  1971.
MOST RECENT ESTIMAiTE      Ia  1971.   Ib  1971-74,    Ic  E-cindas West Iria..    Id   lastly unnoplayd woker     seeking their first juh,
77  lnoate recipient,     If  1972,    /&  10 yearn sod over, ahility to toad and wrste An either Latin or nun-
Latin characters.
BANGCLADESH          1970    /a   1966-67,   Ib  1967-68;    Is  Registered, not all Practicing in the coustry,      Id  roernot     opitaL nutablishnr-st osly,
to APPr-nieste esrell-ont an percentage of population in, 6-10 and il-IA age gro..pn resp-ctively.
INDI                 t9lC    /s  1967-68,    /b  5-00 years of age,    /c  3967.
PHILIPPINES          1920    Ia  As pereenrage of e,sploysset,    1b  7-12 and 13-li years of age ronpestoely,       /s  lot icciading prucato . sstci-o,Iscol
or vocational short-cerncuss          /d  1967. hosebelds,     Is  Inside only;    71   Iports o-1y
RIU, August 25, 1976
2EF0N1T101N1 OP 10:161, INDEICATORS
otul -  - ai srface ces noarislog  and grg end ilaid       Ppulatin pe     using person - P-opul,ioniO   liid t oy sw,ner of pr,uCtseoi4'
-~Ifce  rea-mpisi4 lnd  reaand".l-,dwato,rs.              stlean   feosule graduate nurses,   tust     urueifd'n-e,ad
-u rc-tt esti,u,tat of agrtnulsural ureu, used toemporsrily or          auxirliary personnel with troint.-g or enPit'---c.
Poroue,nl,y for Crops, Panstures, market & kitcnhen gardens or to lie           PopulatioJn,Per phon its, hod - Populatoon divided sy numsbor of honpotal -,eis
iallow.                                                       ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~valihl  t  pbc and priests geerl ,nt spoesulloed hospital- gui
clIPfatcapia 1191  ClP pe  caita  stiatesat orret mrketpries,  rrhubilttation centers; exclodes nt,rsissg hoots- god entabioshosnts for
caclt   U yS$).e GN  P-  mePthod stflid   t      stmz          rcs         custodial and preventive cerc..
19-60         y e.cneri           to       ,ldBk       ta      1737   -i)       Par cap. supy of calories (9 nf reguore!,nroic       - Coespued frear e-eegy
-90,110a  1975 da                                                            equIvaent ofnet food supplies araileble Is tos-try per Capita per day;
Psoolarion and vital statistics                                cr~~~aaslblab  suppliss carprise domesteic produtisitl, smorspui 7.ss ertParis,
t211912-ti- ..d vitat statistics.                              end ch angra ton stock; net supplies occlude ucimsal feed, s-ods, OjJu I . 
PsouI.iarasmi-e      nli      - As sf July first     it not availble,        ~        ies used in food proresxan g and betss, distributi-rr; rnquio'le, nL5
u-erge a     t.Ow  end- yea  nacae,1960, 1970 sod 1975 data.                       vers netioutod by FAG bsses 00 PoYs-a0agcal so-is for nentel         ttt
andI health aensis~r-eg enviors..ntlIia temp-rtue, body weigChts, gSc. us
PsOuIatie bosl          r qaeIn-Mid-year popuilatono per square kilo-                sex dintriboti-So    of population, ,sc ol/ostro ICY9 lor stasis u, h-us
crier (102 heoores (of tolal area                                          hold level.
PuO'latono density -per square ke, of agric. lan     - Competed as aboves for      Per capota supply oIf protein (graoni Per daY) - P-0;sitt cOntel5' of Per
sgriaoli,,rul land only.                                                           cap.ta set supply of fend per day; sot suPply of Lont is deftood us
Vital star-jOin                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~above; requsre-nats fsr all caustries ostabliahod hy niCk 50o000ilt
Vital statistics                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~Research ServtieB Provide for u rk,isiun allawanco of 6O goose  of tutal
birth rats perthlnsoasn     - AnsmAd live births per thousand~ o7   i             Pr,otein, per day, arc1 20 graess of onimsul and PuIbs' Prot-ic, of whItici
Crude  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~-                 10 freon should be anneal PIt'int' ; those stu.,-u-t  uro  Ours than, 1-co,
Year PoPulaLtion; ten-year arithmetics averages ending io 1960 awed 1970,           of 75 gruns ut tutu), potris end 23 goons orfsiu       profitx, as as
and fiee-year average ending in 1975 for meat resent eettlaxe..aoarfrtesn,poso                                         yFCi      t   he    ssl    odbrs,
Crude deaLt ra~ts er tlho-asea  - A-ssu1 deaths per thousan   of mid-yer-ercait porothei                nuislic propne animAl ai,pls -. houtei    atrlipy Fofd foo
popslation; tan-Year a.ith-ein-i  everages ending in 1960 and 1970 and              derveotein itul       sd plss     oogon    peotuy
fiey ar  vrage ending in 1975 far stat resent esetismate.                    Pr9pt          tt 
s_fant.m srt&lity raie Cthou) - Annual deatia of Infants under ens yoar of          Death rute   /tiaen1          - Annual deaths per thuousand in age group
g~~~~~~~~~~                                                           (/~~~~~~~T15i? thou) agesn1e  tots age group; s.sgF;esie uas a0 induicaior of
ago per thonsands l-e bIrths.14yer.Vchre-i
LLre. _cpstuoo  ~at oirt.h (i   - Average au-he, of yearn of life remai,.ie.g        naotit.
at Aitol; usually rite-ye,ar assragen endIng in. 1960, 1970 and 19/5 fsr
Lovelopitsg counirs, s.                                                           Educats cc
Irons rOroductos rate - -AeraL -asnir of Iioo daughters a wos,, vill           4usderot        ntatio -     risna Zschasl - )soslloteot of all ages a.
icar is her noosra rep-aducti,, period i.f sic experu-osco   po,ssni uga-           perconSag~ea of prieryy acoilaepopulutto,; isciudos Children aged
sPecific for1tistLy rates; usually floe-year averages ending in 1960,               i-it years hut adjusted for siufforent leogths of pricur,y educution;
1970 and 1975 for d"esloput.g cou-trisa.                                            far c-ontroes sooth usboersal education., mtolset      ay saseed .00%
Population a,ooth rate (7.) - -total - Compound ann.sI growtht rates of cud-           sInc. ions pupils are oolsu or shove tic Offuos-l sCheol Aft.
year papalacion for L950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                  Adj.ntad enoltn       atio    oodr'sld-          Cossststtd u   sohove;
P.alatLo~, gro~wth ratLe ()-ut-buss - Comsputed 1likc growths rate of total           seondary eaducatio  requires at   Lsifu      yesars of apprised primary
Pe~puluties; differest definiLions of urban arean say affect coospurs-              instr-rctionj provides general, vccattas.al or II,aOhtr 0  raittetig
bAlloy of data amnctg cousro.ontrieslosofor pupila cf 12 - 17 years of age; cor-spondeocs
UJrban POpulation (9 of total) - RatiO of ur05am to total Populatisn;                  Coursen are generally occluded.
di.fercont defisI tidns of orbs, greass nay affect ortparebility of data           Years of schooling prosided (fi.rst and second levels    - TOtal yo,urso
amo00g touuntries.                                                                   schoolinig; iLt secondary levol, vocatootol inst-uiio,, nay As par-
A_ ~stoucturo     rerrat. - Chilldren (0-1L years), waorking-ags (15-6/. yearn),      tially or completely excluded.
uosdrntf(&571da    and over) an Percentages of mtd-yuar populatoeo.           i,acttonl eo'alssent, (5 ofseo.ndary) - Vocational isoatittuttion    inolud
Age ~pedeny rti.- Hatio, of population under 15 and 65 uod over to         ~     telostl       inutr    r   other prograns wst1ch  paprte istdep-tdettyo
thters f agies 1  tShxough 61.                                                       as iepsrtesefts of snendary inntiiuttcOos.
sconoesic depesndesncy ratio - aut.o of Population undor 15 end 65 and sour          Adl    ie~rate        9~ - Literate adults (uble to read uncd write) as
tote labo   farce In a~ge group olf 15-0614 yearn,                                 percentage gor tatc.autp       ulio    agd1yerudev.
Faiy  bnto  -   _acetr L o     leis   thou) - Cumulative soother of
uceirso  rtth-_antro  devIces unAr etopiese of oartional fassly             H     
Plannts.g program  since inception.                                                Pe-r-sonn  Perr roomasea~)verae) -Av,erage ntobor of persons pe rorom 00
Fussily plamoo   - users(   of otarried womno) - Porarotaegno of marrissd              occuieId coventional dwellings in urba.n areas; diw1il-tt    ensctid
5l0son. Of Child-sarngag     (5-i4 yeasr) whso use bsirLh-cottsrnl devices           non-permwanent structarns and unoccupied parts.
to ol married w,01,e5 to, sae age group.                                           OccupIed dwel,lngs satiesut rp)pd wartor (9) - Occupied cutti-los onal
dwtelliganoue        n r orad  areas withnout inside or out-side pipod
4mipontist                                                                            water facilities as percentageoaf all scoopled dwellings.
Tota labr foen (-iuosaon  -  cancmnleally actise persons, incalding         A1coess to electricity (9 of all dwellings) - Cesvestional Awellingaset Il
artsed forces and unanployed but excluding housevives, studients, etc.;              electricit-yInli-n ving quairters en percent uf total dswelilugasi o1 roas~
defiriticos in various Cosuntries a.ra not, comparable.                              and rural areas.
Labor force ilzyaorj,culture W$  -giclurllabor fore          C(I. famig              Aura delnscnctdselectricity (9) - Conputed us above for
lorstr, hntig ad fshig)as percentage at total lus,or force.                           w    g   ,y
l,employred (  of laorforce) - Unemoployed are     sually dofi-dr as persona
wh  real  sud wIng ino take a job, out of a joo cci a given day,             LosupIon
renas-d Cui, of a job, antd seeking work for a specified    utissperiod            hallo receIvers (por thou pop) - All typen of rciversre     for radio stroed-
t,ot, sxceIiod I oPao weash; nay cot on comparable netweos Cou,,siese due to         Casts to  :nra    poblic pesr thtoussd of populatisos; oxcludes unlicensed
lif/tr,t safi-seiuns of unesployad ard snourct of data, e.g., emp1sy-                roneisers in countries sod to years whean registration of radio sets wan
ot-L  ffrtco statisaticn, sample surseys, conpulsory un,mPlytenot insurastast         us effecat; data for recast yeurs nay not be conparable since eons
cosutries abolishec licensing.
Incosn  distribution  - Percentage of private intone (both is cask, and kuo"d)        Pasaenger cars (per thou pop) - Passen,ger oars Comprise notr cars scat-
r-znoived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, god poorest 10% Of                 In-gloss -than eight perso-ns; excludes uambulances, iearsis and military
vehicles.
,lectrttity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual c-ssowption of indestrnal, com-
.)nitrsccsLI- Of land ownership - Pereertagea of laud ow,tod by waslthi-st              omiail, public and prlsot esleotrictty is kilowatt inure per capita;
-'a ot!peru     i0%18 owfrland sao.gensrally based on productios data, mr-hoot alowiurso                                                     for lossess t
grids but allowing foe imports and exports of electricity.
tui,ant :uorLttess                                                               'lewsprinti (ik/   per coo) - Per Cspita annual ccnstoept.on sois klograno
p.cuotat Per physbclai, - Po)pubotion   -i-s,d by sUttber of pr-ctoo-s tt                t orated so   dttc p,Odu-ison Pins -st inporis of tisispoet t.
phlynicosos qualofosi fron a to dcal school at -1acersity totsl,



ANN.X I
PRae 3 of L )--es
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                       1960 -65           1965 -70          1974
GNP at Market Prices          22479       100.0                         1.9               4.9             5.6
Gross Domestic Investment      4330        19.3                         3.3              11.5            19.2
Gross National Saving          425v1       i8.o                         5.8               5.1            64.8
Current Account Balance     -    79         0.4
Exports of Goods, NFS(net oil) 4357        19.14                        1.5               7.8             0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         14220        18.8                         0.2              10.9            33.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added g               _Labor Force2/                  V. A. Per Worker
U$L Mln.      _                 Mln.        %                   US $         %
Agriculture                   4221       44.8                 30.5      69.o                  138         65
Industry                      1915        20.3                 3.0       6.8                  638         300
Services                      3279       34.9                  8.3      18.8                  395        185
Unallocated                    -            -                  2.4       5.4
Total/Average            .           .                             .                             1
9415      100.0                44o2      100.0                 LU57       100-.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(1,13p 131n. 2         % of GDP
1975/76*    1974/75        1974      1973
Current Receipts                     2166        1759          17.9      15.0
Current Expenditure                  126         1001          10.2      10.8
Current Surplus                        70         75B            7.7      4.2
Capital Expenditures                 1273         966           9.8       7.3
External Assistance (net)             403         234            2.4      3.2
*Provisional estirates
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1970         1971        1972        1973        1974         1975
(Bi1lln   Rp.   outstanding end periodT)
Money and Quasi Money                     330          469          695         987        1h52        1995
Bank credit to Public Sector               57           78          16           27       - 36           44
Bank Credit to Private Sector             306          442         587          928        13614       2619
and State Enterprises
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           9.9         12.8         15.2        14.6        14.8
General Price Index (Sept. 1966-l00)      612          638          680         891        1253        1492
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                        12.3          4.2          6.6        31.0        40.6        19.1
Bank credit to Public Sector             -  5.0         36.8       - 79.5        68.8
Bank credit to Private Sector              77.9         14.4         32.9        53.1        47.0        92.0
and State Enkterprises
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp. 390 = US$1.
Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.    "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page       4 of h pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974      1975*                                                US_$ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       2173     4351      4778                    Oil (net)                     1897      50h
Oil (net)                     564     2169      2957                   Rubber                          416     11.0
Non oil                     1609      2182     1821                    Tixder                          602     16.0
Imports                      _-2817    -4220    -54                      Palm oil                        132      3-5
Resource gap               -           131    -                        Tin                             135      3.7
Factor service:              - 158     - 210    -508                     Coffee                           99      2.6
Tntere8t                   -   6  - 72    4 
Investment income          - 112     - L46      2814               All other commodities               83      12-8
Balance  on current account - 802      -  79     -1204                    Total                        3 77     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        290      462      506              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                572       664     2387                                                         US $ Mln
Anortization               -   87       80    - 248
Subtotal                     4         504     2139                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              7875
Capital Grants                    52       62                         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              217    - 126     -2250               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 83    - 214     - 174
Increase in Reserves (+)         325    -     9                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reserves (end year)        806     1473       590
Net Reserves    (end year)       783     11172      489               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              9.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          4         4       90
of which:   Petroleum          2        1        86
Exports
of which:   Petroleum(net)   564     2169      2957             IBRD/IDA Lending (August 31, 1976) (Million US$)
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               151.9      376.4
Trughl July 19.71               US  e 1.00    1971               Undisbursed                          775.0       185.4
US $ 1.00 = US         AS            1.         $1              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         926.9       561.8
1.00 = US $                     1.00 = US $
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services) with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
*Provisional
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
September 30, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1976)
Loan/                                                     US$ Million
Credit  Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number   Year             Purpose                     IDA   Bank  Undisbursed
Six credits closed                                   96.8             0.0
127     1969    Irrigation Rehabilitation             5.0             0.0
155     1969    Agricultural Estates                 16.0             0.1
194     1970    Second Agricultural Estates          17.0             1.5
195     1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation     18.5             0.7
211     1971    Fisheries                             3.5             0.1
219     1971    Education                             4.6             0.3
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation      14.5             1.5
246     1971    Seeds                                 7.5             1.9
259     1971    Tea                                  15.0             3.3
260     1971    Second Highway                       34.0             0.8
275     1972    Third Technical Assistance            4.0             0.7
288     1972    Second Education                      6.3             3.3
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation     12.5             1.0
300     1972    Population                           13.2             7.4
310     1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)  10.0             1.0'
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation     8.5             3.6
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates          11.0             6.0
334     1972    Second Electricity Distribution      40.0            10.7
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development               3.6             1.7
358     1973    North Sumatera Smallholder            5.0             2.3
Development
387     1973    Third Education                      13.5             9.8
388     1973    Third Highway                        14.0             4.8
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power              46.0            24.7
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea    7.8             7.2
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation        50.0            18.5
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate        16.5            11.8
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.
(PDFCI)                            10.0             6.8
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance           5.0             3.8
479     1974    Bali Tourism                         16.0            15.1
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                      6.5             5.6
514     1974    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension       30.0            29.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
Loan/                                                       US$ Million
Credit  Fiscal                                        Amount (less cancellation)
Number   Year                Purpose                   IDA    Bank  Undisbursed
1005     1974   Railway                                       48.0     44.1
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                     25.0     10.6
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                      14.5     13.0
1054     1975   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)          50.0     34.4
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion                  115.0     19.8
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                              65.0     62.8
1127     1975   Fourth Power                                  41.0     38.0
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                       68.0     52.1
1179     1976   Agricultural Research and Extension           21.5     21.5
1197     1976   National Resource Survey and
Mapping                                     13.0     13.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                               130.0    130.0
1237     1976   Fourth Education                              37.0     36.7
1250     1976   Second Shipping                               54.0     54.0
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion (PUSRI IV)         70.0     70.0
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                   90.0     90.0
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension                 22.0     22.0
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                            33.0     33.0
1318 /L  1977   Transmigration & Rural Development            30.0     30.0
Total                                561.8  927.0     960.4
of which has been repaid               0       0
Total now outstanding                561.8   927.0
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid     0.0            0.1
Total now held by Bank & IDA /2      561.8   926.9
Total undisbursed                    185.4   775.0    960.4
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                                        US$ Million
Year                                                    Loan   Equity    Total
1971      P. T. Semen Cibinong          Cement           10.6     2.5      13.1
1971      P. T. Unitex                  Textiles          2.5     0.8       3.3
1971      P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles          2.0      0.5      2.5
1971      P. T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable             2.8     0.4       3.2
1972      P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles          4.5      1.5      6.0
1973      P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel      Tourism          11.0      -       11.0
1973      P. T. Semen Cibinong          Cement            5.4     0.7       6.1
1974      P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles          2.0      0.3      2.3
1974      P. T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics       0.9      -        0.9
1974      P. T. PDFCI                   Dev. Fin. Co.      -      0.5       0.5
1974      P. T. Kamaltex                Textile           2.4     0.6       3.0
1974      P. T. Semen Cibinong          Cement            5.0     1.5       6.5
1976      P. T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             -      1.1       1.1
1977      P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles          0.1       -       0.1
Total                                          49.2    10.1     59.6
Less:   sold or repaid and cancelled           21.1     1.7     22.8
Total held by IFC                              28.1     8.7     36.8
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                   3.7      0.7      4.4



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 127 Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976. Additional
drainage work in one subproject is being carried out with GOI funds. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to allow for payment of late
accounts.
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
With improvements in management and much higher international
prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the financial
position of the estate groups has improved. Field and factory standards
have not been raised to a good technical level and the managements have
been advised to concentrate on cost control in order to prepare for the
time when produce prices may become less attractive. The combined efforts
of the management, consultants and IDA missions in reviewing project imple-
mentation are yielding good results. The closing date has been postponed
to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to consultants for existing contracts.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
After initial delay, there have been considerable improvements
in management and these, combined with high prices, particularly for palm
oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a much stronger
financial position.    In the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort is necessary
to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With the rapid
expansion of investment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is a need to
employ expertise in financial planning, control and management, which are
now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate group is
undertaking action in this respect. The closing date has been postponed by
one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil works and consul-
tants' contracts.
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project entity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
to make up for earlier delays.   (.osts are likely to he double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required and, becauise of higher rice prices, the project
will continue to have a satisfactory rate of return. Completion of disburse-
ments will be about two years behind the original schedule.    The closing
date has been postponed by one year to allow additional time for the
completion of the power transmission line.
Cr. No. 211 Fisheries: US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date:  January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The project is about three years behind the original schedule due
to delays in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore
facilities and the fishing vessels. There has also been a substantial
project cost increase which, coupled with delays and continued poor manage-
ment, has placed the eventual profitability of the project in jeopardy,
despite greatly increased skipjack prices. The first stage of operation of
project facilities is expected t) start shortly, and full operation should
be reached by the end of 1977. The closing date of this credit has been
postponed by two years in order to continue payments to consultants assisting
the project entity.
Cr. No. 219 Education: US$4.6 Millioni Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date:  Jaiijarv ?9, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education has been
satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical. Training Centers (TTCs)
have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been purchased
and about 60 percent delivered anfl inst alled.  All TTCs began to operate at
full capacity in January 1976 when the new academic year started.    Over 500
technical teachers htave compLered or dre about to complete their training.
Technical assistanre finan(ed by the UA'K. fo- the project is also satisfac-
tory.   Revised totil project (ose is   ww .ihcmit 140 percent above appraisal
estimate.  lhe C Gveruunent will finiiiljp the .-ost overruin.  The project is
expected to be complete.] about tthree months ahead of schedule, a completion
mission is presently in thle field.
Cr. No. 220  Third Irrigation IZeiahlitation:  IJS$i/4.5 MilLion Credit
of Novembe. 6, 197t1; r.ffective Date:  May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 3;), 1977.
Construction remains aboz!t twc to three years behind schedule.
The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation of
contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973
construction season and, more jectenttly, slow response by (;C  to high
inflation rates anid conseqnent  ivil works costs overruns - have been
mainly overcome, but tine lost Caill(:t bf regairned.  Estimated project cost



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
is 50 percent above the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on
the world market, the ploject's economic rate of return remains over 20
percent. The closing date has been postponed by 18 months as a result of
project delay.
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Significant progress has been made in the construction of the
irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National Seeds
Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production
problems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insects have resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal
expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of three addi-
tional factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can
probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating pressure
on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will be to
reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should be
completed before the end of 1976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing
date has therefore been postponed by 15 months to December 31, 1976. Design
standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered which resulted in
some savings. These, together with other savings, have partly offset con-
struction cost increases of 12 percent.
Cr. No. 275 Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing date has
been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for ongoing
studies.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented by the
Department of Agriculture, is about 12 months delayed because of the late
appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. The main causes of delay have
been overcome. About 45 percent furniture and 80 percent equipment have
been contracted. Unlike the physical aspects of the project, the educa-
tional aspects are generally on schedule. Total project costs are now
estimated to be 90 percent higher than the original estimate. Government
has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disbursement, which has been slow, is
improving since civil works contracts have now been awarded. However,
delayed implementation may necessitate postponement of the closing date by
about one year.
Cr. No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works for the main project, Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding
but completion will be about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation,
project costs are likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates.
Consultants for the various studies have completed their work. Disbursements
are on schedule.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory. Steps
are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with communications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress is being made with equipment
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually and showing good results.
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date:    October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to be
fully committed by September 30, 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.
Cr. No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP/X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plant-
ings of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent
condition. Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are
growing well. A hybrid coconut seed garden is b?Lng established, the first
in Indonesia. PNP/X management need to pay more attention to cost control
and to financial planning. Substantial cost increases have taken place
largely due to an expansion in the size of the program compared with the
appraisal report. The Government has agreed to provide part of the short-
fall in project funding and discussions with the Government are proceeding
on a proposed increase in the budgetary allocation. PNP/X is keen to
participate in smallholder development.
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures. As a
result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No
further delays are therefore expected.
Cr. No 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission under-
took a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major
changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under discussion
with Government.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: US$5 Million
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe finnancial
and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical progress
is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now on schedule.
There is considerable room for improvement in financial management, in
which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about ten months behind schedule, mainly due to
insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. Manage-
ment has been strengthened by the addition of Indonesian staff to the
project unit and by new arrangements for consultant specialist services.
The paper shortage has been overcome and printing and distribution of the
first 31 million text books was completed in fiscal 1976, about four months
behind schedule. The book testing and teacher training programs are on
schedule but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement and
delivery of vehicles is largely completed. All instructional equipment has
been procured and is being packaged in Jakarta in preparation for delivery
to local areas.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highways: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now about 60 per-
cent completed. Contractors have been delayed mainly because of long mobili-
zation periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed original
estimates (including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to sharply
escalated prices. The training program has been completed successfully.
Cr. No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara Karang
were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an
increase in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. Government
will provide the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the
initial targets in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms
of the Credit Agreement.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date:    November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but it is expected
that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end of the 1976/77
planting season. The estate field program has not been started. However,
recently some loan applications have been processed and it is likely that
by 1977 the estate program will be on target. Project nurseries are well
organized and field work is proceeding well. Nonparticipating farmers
have also benefited from the project. Total project costs are estimated to
be double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempt-
ing to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return is
still satisfactory.
Cr. No. 405 Sugar Industry Rehabilitation: US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
In view of the rapid and continuing increase in the cost of sugar
factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds, the
scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised
project consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the
construction of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the
minor to the major rehabilitation and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Of 430 ha, earmarked for the project, about 270 ha had been
acquired by June 1976, and 116 ha had been developed for occupation.
Eighty-nine factories are located on the estate of which 48 are operat-
ing and 41 are in various stages of construction or commission. The
rate of new applications for land allotment has been slower in recent
months than in the past and the estate is intensifying its promotional
efforts. Overall, operations are profitable, despite an increase in
construction costs.
Cr. No. 436   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding and
recruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase as PDFCI's
own operational capability improves.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations for project tenders have been approved by IDA. The earliest
possible completion date has shifted from February 1979 to October 1979.
Budgetary allocations as reqiiestpd hv the Bali Tourism Development Corpora-
tion for FY76/77 are satisfactorv. Negotiations with three potential hotel
investors are underway. Promotional efforts to attract additional investors
have been intensified in 1976.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Lending for fishponds is now on schedule, the initial construction
of shore facilities at Ambon has begun and contracts for boat construction
and boat equipment have been awarded. Although significant cost increases
are envisaged, the project is still expected to be financially viable
because of increases in fish prices. The trawler subproject is being held
in abeyance, as its justification is now in question.
Cr. No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are now making good progress in designing works
and preparing contract documents. The first civil works contract is
expected to be awarded in October 1976, about one year behind the original
schedule, due in part to delays in loan signing.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to
poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. The
bulk of the contracts have been signed. Passenger traffic in 1975 was slightly
lower than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has con-
tinued to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power,
which should improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in
May 1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight reve-
nues by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further,
as operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been very good;
costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be undertaken.
Execution of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year behind
schedule due to delays in obtaining approval of project design, but
tenders for construction have now been issued.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher
rates of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs
25-30 percent above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents have been completed and the project has
reached its construction phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises are proceeding satisfactorily. An interdepartmental decree to
govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Government
has been prepared to be issued jointly by the Ministeries of Public Works
and Interior.
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements were initially slower than expected
but they have increased in the second half of FY76. The progress of this
project is satisfactory and the loan is likely to be fully committed by
December 1976.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
Work on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to schedule.
Work on the related gas pipeline is delayed but steps have been taken to
expedite implementation.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisor-
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind --hedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been exercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Practically all of the equipment and materials required for the
project have been ordered and work has commenced on three of the port bulk
depots.  Land acquisition for the Inland Storage Depots is well in hand and
contracts are expected to be let shortly. Completion of the project is
expected to be about six months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension:   US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976. A project
implementation unit has been established. Substantial progress has been
made in establishing and staffing the headquarters of the Agency for
Research and Development. However there have been delays in the appoint-
ment of the chief architect and the consulting firm. These appointments
are expected to be completed within the next two or three months.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5,'1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 2, 1976.    The project agency,
BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress in project implementation.
Detailed designs for project facilities and tender documents have been
completed and tendering should be completed in October 1976. Preparation
of equipment specifications and planning of aerial photography operations
to support detailed resource surveys of the southern Sumatra region are also
proceeding. Senior project staff have been appointed.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan became effective on August 13, 1976. Seven consultancy
contracts have been signed and about half of the project road works have been
tendered.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
of equipment specifications and planning of aerial photography operations
to support detailed resource surveys of the southern Sumatra region are also
proceeding. Senior project staff have been appointed.
Loan No. 1236 Fourth Highway Project: US$130 Million Loan of April 15
1976; Closing Date:   December 31, 1980.
This Loan became effective on August 13, 1976. Seven consultancy
contracts have been si-lled and almost more than half of the project road
works have been tendered.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Inis Loaan became effective on June 17, 1976. Project implementa-
-LLoI un,LL have been established for all components of the project.
Alhnough some delays have occurred in contract negotiations with consultant
irch ite- cs and signing Funds-in-Trust Agreements with technical assistance
dcnc Le,, agreements have now been reached and contracts are expected to be
si-.ne.l within three months. Site selection and acquisition is generally
sat Lstictory.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:   US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective by October 20, 1976.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion Project:    US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1976.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power Project:   US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Closing Date:   March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective on September 20, 1976.
Loan No. 1267   Food Crops Extension Project:   US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on September 21, 1976.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:   US$33 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on September 21, 1976.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:    US$30 million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
This loan is expected to become effective by November 30, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDONESIA - TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:            Tanjung Priok Port Administration (BPP)
Amount:                 US$32.0 million
Terms:                  20 years including four years of grace, at an
interest rate of 8.7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:        When the Government establishes the new National
Port Corporation (PERUM) about mid-1978 the
proceeds of the loan would be onlent by it
to BPP at a 12 percent interest rate per annum
for 20 years, including four years of grace.
Until the establishment of the PERUM, the funds
will be made available to BPP by the Government
through the budget.
Project Description:    The proposed project is designed to meet anti-
cipated traffic growth in Tanjung Priok Port
and to provide adequate facilities for con-
tainerized cargo. It includes the ongoing
government-financed construction in Basin III
(East) and would also provide:
(a) back-up facilities, container handling
and other equipment in Basin III (East);
(b) 545 m new general cargo berths for the
regional trade and mechanical handling
equipment;
(c) improvements to the land access to the
port;
(d) construction of about 500 houses, roads
and services for these houses needed to
replace those to be demolished for the
Phase II extension; and
(e) consulting services and technical
assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Project Costs:          Total project cost is estimated at $79.3 million of
which $41.5 million would be in foreign exchange
including $32 million for the Bank-financed project
items. The details of the project cost are given in
the table below:
% of
Total cost
of Bank
----US$ Thousands                 Financed
Local    Foreign      Total         Works
A.  Civil works                9,75o     8,750     18,500          38
B.  Mechanical equipment         160     9,430      9,590          20
C.  Technical assistance
and training               270     1,500     1,770            3
D.  Engineering consulting
services                   800     2,350     3,150            6
E.  Base cost estimate
(BCE)                   10,980    22,030    33,010
F.  Physical contingencies     1,930     2,670      4,600          10
G.  Price contingencies        3,500     7,300     10,800          23
Total Bank-Financed
Works                   16,410    32,000    48,410          100
H.  Tax on above items           700       -          700
I. Lease aquisition and
compensation             2,000       -       2,000
J. Government financed
civil works and
tax /a                  12,640     9,550    22,190
K. Housing services,
land acquisition and
house construction       6,000       -       6,000
Total                     37,750    41,550    79,300
/a The ongoing construction of berths in Basin II (East).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Financial Plan:              The proposed loan of US$32 million would
finance the estimated foreign exchange
cost of the project, excluding the ongoing
works financed by the Government for the
general and combination cargo berths in
Basin III (East). The Bank financing would
cover 40 percent of the total project cost,
and the remaining 60 percent or $47.3 million
would be provided by Government.
Procurement:                 All contracts for the Bank-financed project
items, except those for the civil works for
roads and utilities for housing, would be
awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement. Civil works would be awarded
in four contracts and mechnical equipment in
three contracts. In bid evaluation, qualified
local contractors and eligible joint ventures
would be given a preference of 7-1/2 percent
over foreign contractors and the domestic manu-
facturers a margin of 15 percent or the actual
customs duties, whichever is lower, over the
imported goods.
Estimated Disbursements:     Bank FY       1977   1978   1979   1980   Total
Annual         5.8   16.5    8.8    0.9     32.0
Cumulative    5.8    22.3   31.1   32.0
Technical Assistance         The project includes a technical assistance and
training program requiring a total of 202 man-
months of consultant services at an estimated
average cost of $6,500 per man-month. This
technical assistance and training program would
cover the following areas: cargo handling,
maintenance, accounting procedures, middle
level management training, container operations,
customs procedures and planning assistance for
DGSC. The project also includes funds for a
study of appropriate distribution system for
the output of Krakatau steel mill.
Rate of Return:              Economic rate of return on the project is
estimated to be about 18 percent.
Appraisal Report:            No. 1124a-IND, dated October 15, 1976,
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department.






7BRD 12150
_ THAILAND     IIHo '          do'       I          B         MARCH 1976
Java  Sea *aa;{;nalfU IoP7H s Ay sAe  -_ Ewl_lqk   c                                 P\s   OCEASNA
a     SINGAPORE
1             ~~~~~~SULA.ESI            '
j-U P                                        -      7
I\ '0' -                          74NIIAN OCEAN      ; 'TIMOR
jt5                                                            IDH               110' 
INDONESIA
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
METERS
;l~~~ ji PbD,
(H'         CE~01IRTATEAPIHIHENERAL
PROJECT AREAS PHASE I
PROJECT AREAS PAEI
ACCESS ROADS PHASE I
ACCESS ROADS PHASEI
EXISTING RAILWATS
PROPOSES HtAILWAYS
EXIISTING ROADS
EXIST NG SHEDS
"7  PROPOSES SH-ESS PHASE I
- F  PROPOSED SHEDS PHASE II






IBRD 12151
MARCH 1976
MAINTENANCE
FA IIIES-'~
CONTAINER CRANES           _    L                    .AIE
INDONESIA                             :  >  )
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT                                         /
BASIN   mII  CIVIL   WORKS DETAILS
PROJECT AREA
TRANSIT SHEDS
NEW ACCESS ROAD                                 NICE
1l           - - - -- 1CONTAINER OPTION
CHASSISCONTAINERSTORAGE
=    7     \ \\\ STACKED CONTAINER STORAGE  j j
EXISTING BUILDINGS
~-       _j Exi STING ROADS
I~ ~             ___                         ___8D 
0   40   Bb   120  160  200               MAINEAC
LMETERS                         M   CLTE 
fPbj 8
_______            D       i i;         If
__z@lC7-I ' Nc.0 11 H 0: azOl l, '[ I0



