Report No. 1124a-IND                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Tanjung Priok
Port Project Indonesia
October 15, 1976
Transportation Division
East Asia & Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                   =      Rp 415
Rp 1                   =      USJ0.24
Rp 1 million           =      US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i meter (m)      2                 3.28 feet (ft)        2
1 square meter (2)                 10.76 square feet (f )
1 cubic meter (m )          =      35.29 cubic feet (ft )
1 kilometer (km)       2    =      0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )   =       0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =      1,000 kilograms (kg)
or 2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS  -    National Planning Council
BCE       -    Base Cost Estimate
BPP       -    Badan Pengusahaan Pelabuhan (Tanjung Priok Port Administration)
cfs       -    container freight sheds
DGH       -    Directorate General of Highways
DGSC      -    Directorate General of Sea Communications
dwt       -    deadweight tons
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
LWOST     -    Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides
MOC       -    Ministry of Transport, Communications and Tourism
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MPW       -    Ministry of Public Works and Power
NDF       -    National Development Fund
PERUM     -    Perusahaan umum (independent authority)
RLS       -    Regular Liner Service of Inter-Island Shipping Fleet
UKA       -    Usaha Karya (Labor Pool)
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........... .. ...............
I.    INTRODUCTION ........          ...........................  .          1
II.    BACKGROUND  .           ........................................        1
A.    Economic Setting ......             ........................     1
B.    Transportation  ................................    2
C.    Transport Planning,  Policy and Coordination  ...                5
III.    PORT FACILITIES,  ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS  .... ...    5
A.    Existing Facilities  ...........................    5
B.    Organization  ..................................    6
C.    Operations  ....................................    8
IV.    THE PROJECT             ........................................   11
A.    Capital Investment Program  ....................  11
B.    The Project ..................................   11
C.    Project Execution ..............................   14
D.    Consulting Services  ............. ..............   15
E.    Procurement and Disbursement  ......             ............  15
F.  Ecology ................................... 15
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .         ...............................   16
A.    General  .......................................   16
B.    Traffic Forecast  ...........          ...................   16
C.    Project Benefits and Risks  ......             ..............   17
D.    Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis .18
This report has been prepared by Messrs. F. Higginbottom (Engineer),
R.H. Roberts (Economist), J. McCunniff (Financial Analyst, Consultant)
and K.C. Rodley (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ...............................  19
A.   General   .......................................    19
B.  Accounting and Costing Systems, Rates and
Charges   .....................................    19
C.  Asset Values .......      ........................... 19
D.   Financial Management and Staffing ....   ......... 20
E.  Past Earnings and Financial Position .... ...... 20
F.  Future Earnings and Financial Position ........ 21
G.   Cash Position and Financial Plan ....   .......... 23
H.  Auditing and Insurance .....      ...................  23
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....   .......... 24
ANNEXES
1.  Asian Development Bank Financed Project of 1972
2.  Existing Facilities at Tanjung Priok
3.  Description of Ongoing Government Works in Basin III
4.  Detailed Description of the Bank-Financed Project
5.  Technical Assistance and Training Program
6.  Alternative Container Handling System Pending Completion of
the Container Stacking Area
7.  Traffic Forecast
8.  Details of Modification Required in the Accounting System
9.  Outline of Cost Finding Procedures Proposed
10.  Recommended Changes in the Tariff Structure
11.  Explanatory Notes on Balance Sheet for March 31, 1973;
December 31, 1973; and December 31, 1974
12.  Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
13.  Plan of Action for BPP
TABLES
1.  List of Operating Companies and Sheds Allocated
2.  Capital Investment Program 1976-83
3.  Detailed Cost Estimates
4.  Contracts for Execution of Bank-Financed Project Works
5.  Construction Schedule
6.  Annual Estimated Project Expenditure
7.  Disbursement Schedule
8.  Traffic Projections 1976-85
9.  Port Traffic 1970-75
10.   Economic Costs and Benefits
11.   Summary of Principal Port Tariffs
12.  Fixed Asset Values, Second Revaluation of 1973
13.   Summary of Wage Increases Since 1973



- 3 -
14.   Income Accounts - Revenues, Expenses and Net Income 1972-82
15.   Balance Sheet Data Actual 1972/73-75
16.   Balance Sheet Data - Estimated 1976-82
17.   Estimated Caph Flow Data 1976-82
18.   Summary Cash Flow Data; Financial Plans 1976-79; and 1976-82
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Directorate General of Sea Communications
2.   Organization of Tanjung Priok Administration
MAPS
12150     Indonesia - Ports and Port of Tanjung Priok
12151     Basin III East Development
September 1976






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanjung Priok, Indonesia's largest port, handles 30% of the
country's general cargo trade, and is particularly important as a distri-
bution point for imports of consumer and industrial goods for the West Java
area and outlying islands. The Government has requested the Bank to finance
the first phase development as proposed in the port master plan. The plan
was prepared by consultants (Swan Wooster Engineering Co., Canada) at the
Government's request, and financed by the Association under technical assis-
tance credits. It proposes development in three phases; the first phase is
expected to handle increased traffic until 1983, when a further extension is
forecast to be necessary. Technical assistance for management, operational,
planning and financial improvements is also proposed.
ii.       The Port Administration of Tanjung Priok (Badan Pengusahaan Pelabuhan
(BPP)) is currently responsible to the Ports and Dredging Directorate of the
Directorate General of Sea Communications (DGSC) in the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Tourism (MOC). Reorganization within DGSC will establish
an independent authority ["perusahaan umum" or Perum] for ports and dredging,
responsible for ports served by the Regular Liner Service (RLS) fleet and a
directorate for other ports. Assisted by an earlier Asian Development Bank
(ADB) financed project, BPP has improved the port since 1973, and is generally
efficient; but its organization is over-centralized and its financial relations
with the Government are unsatisfactory and would be revised under the project.
BPP will be a part of the Perum but with exclusive responsibility for the
management and operation of its assets; its operations will be reorganized to
conform to proposed changes in port operating procedures.
iii,      Licensed private operating companies and forwarding companies
undertake cargo handling operations, except for one unit operated by BPP.
There are too many companies with widely varying efficiency, and berths
are not efficiently allocated among them; also Customs Department will not
permit movement of cargo from transit sheds for any reason until it has
been cleared, and their methods are slow. Consequently, cargo moves slowly
and productivity is poor. Changes in the operational procedures are pro-
posed, to rationalize allocation of berths, sheds and warehouses among the
companies and, if a current experiment is successful, to reduce the number
of companies; modern cargo handling methods will be introduced, and Customs
procedures revised.
iv.       Following severe congestion in the port prior to and during 1973,
the Government commenced construction of 920 m of general cargo, combination
and container berths in Basin III East.  This construction is about 60% com-
pleted, and is consistent with Phase I of the master plan on which the proj-
ect is based. The proposed project includes the ongoing Government construc-
tion in Basin III East and would provide in addition:



- ii -
(a) back up facilities, container handling and other
equipment in Basin III East;
(b) 545 m of new general cargo berths for the regional
trade and mechanical handling equipment;
(c) improvements to the land access to the port;
(d) roads services and houses needed to replace
those to be demolished for the Phase II exten-
sion; and
(e) consulting services and technical assistance.
V,        The proposed project is estimated to cost US$79.3 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$41.5 million equivalent. The proposed
loan of PS$32 million equivalent would finance the estimated foreign exchange
costs of civil works, mechanical equipment and consulting services except
those for the ongoing Government construction. The Government would finance
the foreign exchange cost of the ongoing work and the local currency costs of
the project, including compensation to lessees of port land required for the
project; these costs are estimated to be about US$47.3 million.
vi.       Civil works and mechanical equipment procurement contracts would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, except for the
roads and services for housing. A 7-1/2% preference on civil works contracts
would be granted to Indonesian firms and eligible joint-ventures in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines.
vii.      Technical problems may delay full completion of the ongoing works
to October 1977, but it is expected that the Bank-financed works will be
started in March 1977; it is expected to be completed by mid 1979.
viii.     The proposed project would avoid the constraints on economic
growth which a shortage of port capacity in Tanjung Priok would impose on
West Java and the other islands. Evaluated in terms of ship waiting-
time avoided, this would yield a return of 18%. However, the full economic
return is believed to be greater than this.
ix.       BPP's earnings position has been generally satisfactory.  Its ability
to finance port development is, however, severely restricted by liability for
income tax (45% of net income) and contributions to the National Development
Fund (NDF) (30.25% of net income). Capital expenditures have recently depleted
cash resources to the extent that BPP has accumulated tax arrears amounting to
Rp 7,000 million (US$17.5 million) as of December 31, 1975. In addition, in
1976 BPP has become liable for the payment of a tax equal to 10% of the write
up of fixed assets in service resulting from revaluation of assets as of
December 31, 1972, completed in 1973, but just recently approved by Government.
This amounts to about Rp 3,368 million.



- iii -
x.         During negotiations it was agreed that BPP would be permitted to
earn a return of 5% in 1977 to 1980 inclusive and not less than 7% thereafter
before providing for NDF contribution but after income tax and revaluation
tax, the latter being spread over a four-year period beginning in 1977 for
purposes of calculating the return. The specified return would be achievable
provided additional revenues were obtained, as assumed in the projections, by
adjustment to storage and wharfage charges and upward adjustment of rates,
amounting to 10% in 1979 and 20% in 1980.
xi.        Substantial inputs of government capital will be required to
ensure that BPP has adequate funds for its port expansion. These funds are
expected to total Rs 17.3 billion during the 1976-82 period and constitute
25% of capital investment needs. Internally generated funds would provide
19.5% of capital investment requirements in 1976-79 and almost 19% over the
seven-year period 1976-82. This is acceptable; the BPP contribution would
be much higher were Government equity contributions considered a return of
internally generated funds at least to the extent of BPP's contributions to
the NDF amounting to Rp 9.1 billion during the 1976-82 period.
xii.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$32 million equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for a period
of 20 years, including a four-year grace period. BPP would assume a debt
to the Government for a similar amount, for the same term, but at 12%
interest.
September 1976






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has asked the Bank to help in financing
the expansion of Tanjung Priok, Indonesia's largest port, [in order] to meet
anticipated traffic growth and to provide adequate facilities for contain-
erized cargo. The proposed project, which forms part of the Government's
Second Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita II), 1975-79, is based on Phase I
of a master plan study prepared by consultants (Swan Wooster Engineering Co. -
Canada) in the period June, 1974 to July, 1975; it would be partially financed
by a Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent. The loan would be made to the
Government for a term of 20 years, including a four-year grace period. When
established as a part of the Perum in DGSC (para 3.04), Tanjung Priok Port
Administration would assume a debt to the Government of US$32 million equiv-
alent for a similar term at an interest rate of 12% p.a., under a subsidiary
agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.06).
1.02      The Bank Group's previous assistance to the transport sector has
amounted to US$381 million, and includes three credits (154-IND, 260-IND and
388-IND) and one loan (1236-IND) for highway projects, one loan for railways
(1005-IND), one credit (318-IND) and one loan (1250-IND) for inter-island
shipping as well as a fertilizer distribution project (Loan 1139-IND). No
major difficulties have arisen but progress on the first three of these
projects has been slow.
1.03      This project, which will aim to improve cargo handling productivity
and throughput, is based on the consultant's study, data supplied by the
Government and the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. F. Higginbottom (engineer), J. McCunniff (consultant, financial
analyst) and R. Roberts (economist) which visited Indonesia in November
1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The Indonesian archipelago comprises thousands of islands spread
out along 5,000 km of the equator in a band about 2,000 km wide. However,
five large land masses (the islands of Kalimantan, Sumatera, Irian Jaya,
Sulawesi and Java) accgunt for more than 92% of the country's total land
area of 1.9 million km . About two-thirds of Indonesia's population of
130 million (1975 estimate) is concentrated on the island of Java which



- 2 -
covers only 7% of the total land area and is o e of the most densely popu-
lated regions in the world (625 persons per km ). The average population
density in the rest of Indonesia is much lower than Java and the Govern-
ment is encouraging migration from Java to other islands, but with only
limited success. Urbanization is accelerating and the population of the
capital, Jakarta, is about 5 million.
2.02      Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was the equivalent of about US$16.3
billion in 1973 or about US$130 per capita. The economy grew during the
First Five-Year Plan and in 1975 at over 7% p.a. The Second Five-Year Plan
projects continuation of the growth pattern from the previous plan period but
with greater emphasis on industrial expansion, particularly in basic industry;
transport is projected to grow at a rate of 10% p.a. With the increase in
oil prices, additional resources have become available to the Government
and have already been committed to expanding investment. Indonesia's export
earnings are expected to rise further from US$4.4 billion in 1974 to US$10.5
billion in 1980 and to provide the necessary foreign exchange and savings for
additional increases in the rate of investment.
B.   Transportation
(a) General
2.03      Indonesia makes significant use of all modes of transport.  Java
has extensive road and rail systems which account for 33% and 70% respec-
tively, of the total networks in the country. Roads provide the basic links
within the individual islands outside Java, though the density of these net-
works is much lower. There are also about 450 km of petroleum pipelines in
operation or under construction in South-Central Java and a few gas pipelines
in Java and Sumatera. Marine transport, which already plays a vital role in
freight and passenger movements between the islands is expected to grow with
the development of the other islands. Air transport is developing rapidly,
but almost exclusively for passenger use. The largest single item in freight
transport, measured in ton-km, is the movement of petroleum and its products
by domestic shipping; without this traffic, road and sea traffic are roughly
equal and each is about three times rail traffic. More than half of total
passenger-km is produced by road transport, with rail contributing the second
largest share and the balance by sea.
2.04       The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960's but grew nearly 11% p.a. in constant prices over the First
Plan period as the economy recovered. The Government's policy in the First
Five-Year Plan emphasized rehabilitation of transport facilities and the
condition of infrastructure and the transport fleet has improved markedly
as a result. In addition, some fleet expansion took place, particularly in
road transport and aviation. The primary aim of the Government's Second
Five-Year Plan in the transport sector is to create substantial capacity
increases both by additional investment and by improved productivity, through
completion of unfinished rehabilitation work and further strengthening of
sectoral institutions and organizations. Over the Second Plan period,



investments for transport in the public sector (assuming continuation of
development expenditures at increased levels) and by the private sector
are estimated at about Rp 1,800 billion (US$4.3 billion, in 1973 prices)
roughly 17% of total investments; about 56% of this will flow through the
public sector under various central and local governments' development
budgets with the remainder being financed privately, particularly for the
purchase of road and other transport vehicles.
(b) Highways
2.05      The extra-urban public highway network totals 86,264 km.  The
roads are classified as "national" (10,628 km), "provincial" (24,466 km) and
"district" (kabupaten) (51,170 km), indicating their relative importance and
the basis for defining administrative, financial and executive procedures
associated with construction and maintenance. In addition to the public
highway network, agricultural estates and oil companies construct and main-
tain their own roads.
(c) Railways
2.06      Railways are confined (with one minor exception in Madura) to two
islands: about 4,700 km on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatera. The railways,
which were built during the 70 years prior to World War II to move primary
commodities to foreign markets, suffered with declining exports in the
1950s and 1960s and, as with most public infrastructure in Indonesia,
they were allowed to deteriorate. Limited rehabilitation took place
during the First Five-Year Plan and freight traffic recovered initially,
at about 7% p.a. in ton-km, but has since shown little growth; while
passenger traffic after many years of decline is starting to show an up-
ward trend. Due to long neglect in replacing over-age assets and to poor
maintenance facilities, railway operations have remained deficient. The
railway has formulated a comprehensive program of modernization and re-
habilitation which, coupled with technical assistance, formed the basis
of a Bank railway project (Loan 1005-IND), presently being implemented.
(d) Aviation
2.07      In 1972 about 95% of domestic civil air traffic movement in
Indonesia passed through 27 airports (about one-third of these movements
through Jakarta). Recent improvements were concentrated in these airports
to permit use by modern aircraft, which could handle the rapid rise in
passenger traffic (nearly three times between 1968-72) most efficiently.
As a result, 19 airports can now accept passenger jets as against only 3
at the start of the First Plan. While landing fields have been improved,
substantial deficiencies persist in aeronautic communications, naviga-
tional aids and air traffic control. In line with the rapid rise in
traffic, the capacity of the civil aviation fleet has been expanded and
the types of aircraft diversified. Most of the needs in the aviation sub-
sector are for equipment for which bilateral financing is likely to be



-4-
available. The Government is studying the construction of a new inter-
national airport for Jakarta. During the Second Plan, the Government
also intends to promote the construction of landing fields in the remote
districts.
(e) Shipping
2.08      In 1974, the Indonesian shipping fleet, excluding sailing craft,
consisted of about 1,055 registered vessels totalling about 1.2 million
deadweight tons (dwt). Of this, 57 vessels, totalling about 0.5 million
dwt, consisted of ocean-going general cargo ships, 336 vessels (0.4 million
dwt) consisted of inter-island registered ships, each over 500 dwt, while
the remainder was composed of tankers (0.1 million dwt) and small vessels.
Of the inter-island fleet, 200 ships (220,000 dwt) were licensed to oper-
ate in the RLS. With IDA assistance (Credit 318-IND), the Government is
providing funds for the rehabilitation and improvement of the RLS fleet.
A second shipping Loan 1250-IND has been made and Norway and Japan have also
made loans which, together, will provide additional funds to improve and ex-
pand the fleet to meet the rapidly rising demand for shipping services; the
project also emphasizes safety and improvement of fleet operations on main
RLS-routes through the introduction of palletization of general cargo traffic.
(f) Ports
2.09      Indonesia has about 300 ports scattered over the archipelago, but
about 70% of traffic volume is concentrated in ten of them. The major ports
are Tanjung Priok and Surabaya in Java; Belawan, Palembang and Panjang in
Sumatera; Banjarmasin and Balikpapan in Kalimantan; and Ujung Pandang
(Makasar) in Sulawesi. Tanjung Priok, the largest general cargo port, serves
the Jakarta metropolitan area and West Java, and handles about 30% of the
country's general cargo trade.
2.10      Studies of short-term port requirements have been completed by
consultants, NEDECO (Netherlands), and minor works to improve operations
in some of the main ports have been undertaken with assistance from the ADB,
the Netherlands and Japan. Preparation of master plans for the ports of
Surabaya, Belawan and Panjang have been completed by consultants, Sir William
Halcrow & Partners (UK), financed by UNDP with ADB as executing agency. A
project for expansion of Surabaya and Belawan is under preparation with ADB
financing. A master plan for development of Palembang is also in hand by
consultants (Ernst Fraenkel Associates, USA).
2.11      In 1973, the need to import large volumes of rice and wheat re-
sulted in severe congestion in Tanjung Priok which restricted the country's
ability to meet the emergency created by rice crop failures, and limited
the import of steel and cement for important development projects. Short-
term measures, including some rehabilitation of berth aprons and sheds,
which were subsequently adopted under an ADB-financed project (Annex 1),
substantially improved the port's operations and, together with a level-
ing out in the traffic growth, greatly reduced ship-waiting time. To



- 5 -
meet the evident longer-term need for development of Tanjung Priok, the
Government initiated a master plan study of the port by IDA-financed consult-
ants (Credits 216-IND and 275-IND), which was completed in September 1975.
However, following the experiences in 1973, the Government considered the need
for additional port capacity so acute that, in June 1974, it commenced construc-
tion of the Basin III East berths, which form a part of the present project
(para 4.02), and are consistent with the master plan.
C.   Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
2.12      Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the trans-
port sector is divided at the national level between two ministries, the
Ministry of Public Works and Power (MPW) for roads, and the Ministry of
Transport, Communications and Tourism (bOC) for other modes. The Ministries
formulate investment proposals for each mode which are submitted to the
National Planning Council (BAPPENAS) for review. The Government intends to
employ one expatriate expert in MOC, financed under Technical Assistance
Credit (275-IND), to help it in reviewing these investment proposals.
2.13      Modal planning is hindered by a lack of trained staff and by the
limited and irregular flow of data. Nevertheless, planning of highways in
the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has been greatly strengthened in
recent years with the assistance of a UNDP highways planning advisory team,
and will receive further significant assistance under a proposed Bank loan.
Railway planning will be improved under the current Bank loan for the rail-
ways, while strengthening of the port planning function is proposed under
the present project (paras 3.05, 4.02 (f) and Annex 5). The Government has
initiated training programs for transport planning staff and is pursuing
several means to improve the availability of information, among them the pro-
vision of an expert financed from Technical Assistance Credit (275-IND) to
work with MOC on data problems. The training of Indonesian staff as well as
improvements in modal planning and data gathering will take time and it will
be some years before these essential prerequisites for improved transport
coordination are available.
III. PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS
A.   Existing Facilities (Map 12150)
3.01      Currently Tanjung Priok has 3,250 m of berths 1/ for the deepsea
trade in Basins I (East), II and III, which have 8 m 2/ to 10 m depth along-
side (10,000 - 20,000 dwt ships); and 2,100 m of berths for the regional and
1/   The term berth is used to denote the water frontage served by a
transit shed; more than one ship may often be served on a "berth"
frontage.
2/   All water depths given below Low Water Ordinary Spring Tide (LWOST).



-6-
inter-island trade in Basin I West Perahu and Nusantara basins, with 8 m
and 4.5 m depth alongside respectively (10,000 and 2,000 dwt ships). Usable
berthing space is somewhat less than the total available, due to disposition
of the transit sheds. Two berths in the deepsea harbor are restricted to
the handling of bulk cement and fertilizer. Transit sheds (20 in the deep-
sea harbor and 15 in the regional harbor) are satisfactory, and there are
ample warehousing and open storage areas in both harbors. A separate oil
basin, with 11 m depth (45,000 dwt ships) provides, in addition to four
oil berths, a berth for bulk wheat imports.
3.02      All the basins are adequately protected by two breakwaters, with
access from seawards through the 11 m deep West approach leading to the
Nusantara channel (6 m deep) and the east-west channel (11 m deep) serving
Basins I, II and III and the Oil basin. A new east approach channel is being
dredged. Maximum tide is 1.4 m above LWOST. Maintenance dredging require-
ments are not excessive. While roads inside the port are generally satis-
factory, land access to the port will be improved (para 4.02 (c)). Rail
access is available, but little used except for petroleum products and fer-
tilizer traffic. There are sufficient tugs and floating craft available, but
mechanical equipment and pallets for handling general cargo are inadequate.
Details are given in Annex 2.
B.   Organization
Government Organization for Ports
3.03      The Port Administration of Tanjung Priok (Baden Pengusahaan
Pelabuhan (BPP)) is presently a department of the Directorate of Ports
and Dredging in the Directorate General of Sea Communications (DGSC) under
the MOC. DGSC's overall responsibilities and organization are shown in
Chart 1.
3.04      The Government now proposes to establish a "perusahaan umum" (Perum),
an independent authority under Law 19 of 1960 to control the Borrowers port
and dredging activities. It will be responsible for all such activities in
the country's regional administrative areas except that the number of ports
for which it is responsible will be limited to those visited by RLS ships;
for control of the remaining ports, a port directorate will be created within
the MOC. Both the Perum and the directorate will be responsible to the DGSC.
It is expected to be operative by June 30, 1978. The proposed reorganization
will permit greater emphasis on the planning of future port developments
which, as previously noted, is inadequate.
3.05      A number of studies and master plans for development of various
major and minor ports has been made, as previously noted, but little has been
done to improve minor ports, although the need for such improvement is one
of the reasons for the excessive time the inter-island ships presently spend
in port. It was agreed during negotiations that the proposed ports director-
ate will: (i) establish an adequately staffed port planning organization,
(ii) update and complete the inventory of facilities at all existing ports for
which it is responsible and (iii) undertake a survey of those ports served by



-7-
the RLS which would recommend improvements necessary to expedite ship
turnaround time, and prepare an outline of the work required. Technical
assistance for these items is included in the proposed project (para 4.02 (f)
and Annex 5).
Tanjung Priok Port (BPP)
3.06      BPP is headed by a Port Administrator and has a Secretariat
covering administration, legal and personnel matters, a planning and
project unit, two security units and six operating divisions - traffic,
service, pilotage, finance, dredging and technical - which are in turn
organized into functional units. Total personnel is about 3,550 of which
some 2,200 are maintenance crews or security guards. Details are shown
in Chart 2. A separate organization, Usaha Karya (UKA), controlled by
BPP, is responsible for registration and allocation of cargo-handling
labor to operating companies (para 3.13); it is financed by contributions
from the operating companies, on the basis of daily labor provided.
3.07      BPP has markedly improved operating conditions in the port since
1973 with the aid of the ADB-financed project previously referred to, and is,
in general, an efficient organization, albeit somewhat overstaffed. It lacks
skilled tradesmen and equipment operators; training to correct this is in-
cluded in the project (para 4.02 (f) and Annex 5). BPP's main problems are
that its financial relations with Government are unsatisfactory (para 3.08),
and its current methods of controlling operations are over-centralized
(para 3.09). These matters and other minor improvements to the organization
are amplified below.
3.08      BPP cannot borrow money in its own name, and all funds for capital
improvements and additions are channelled through the MOC's budget. There are
generally no budgetary carry-over arrangements from year to year; however,
this has recently been arranged for the ongoing work in Basin III. Funds for
capital works are made available to the port without interest or obligation
to repay, including the proceeds of international loans such as the ADB
loan of 1972. BPP will become part of the overall Perum to be established
for ports (para 3.04) but will have exclusive responsibility for the manage-
ment and operation of its assets, including procurement, for the selection of
its officers and staff within the approved establishment, and for the plan-
ning and implementation of its future development, subject only to a reason-
able degree of supervision by the Perum and approval of its budgets. BPP
will have timely access to sufficient funds to carry out its day-to-day
operation and its development programs and would be subject to audit (para
6.19). During negotiations, these changes in BPP's legal status were dis-
cussed and agreed.
3.09      BPP's arrangements for control of day-to-day cargo handling opera-
tions are over-centralized, as are arrangements for maintenance of the equip-
ment and facilities employed therein. Both operational and maintenance
departments should be restructured in line with the proposed reorganization
of the operating companies (para 3.16) and section heads given greater day-
to-day decision-making authority, including the procurement and storage of



- 8 -
spare parts, within agreed policy and budget restraints. Other changes which
are considered necessary for improving BPP's overall efficiency are: (i) the
present planning and project bureau and the maintenance department should be
separated; at present, they are headed by the same officer who is too cir-
cunmscribed by the day-to-day demands of the maintenance function to be able to
fill the planning role satisfactorily; the planning and project bureau should
be strengthened; and (ii) the Port Administrator should be given authority to
dispose of scrap material by auction, subject only to approval of the Minister
of Transport, Communications and Tourism of the Borrower. Current procedures
are time consuming, so that scrap material remains in the port area too long
and takes up valuable space. These recommended changes were discussed and
agreed during negotiations and will be timed to coincide with the proposed
changes in operating procedures (para 3.16).
Customs Department
3.10      The Customs Department of the MOF at Tanjung Priok is broadly
organized in three sections: (i) documents and collection, (ii) exami-
nation and (iii) administration. Relations with BPP are good and Customs
have demonstrated a readiness to cooperate in arranging for examinations
in specific areas and permitting movement to bonded warehouses. Customs
procedures do, however, undoubtedly contribute to slow cargo movement
because of (i) the out-dated customs code, which is being reviewed by
specialists financed by the International Monetary Fund; (ii) the cumber-
some procedures, and number of Customs officers involved in assessing
dues and clearing consignees papers; and (iii) the inability to move
goods from the transit sheds without Customs authority, since the main
examination of goods takes place in the transit sheds and there is no
customs fence around some areas.
3.11      Rectification of the physical problems which contribute to slow
cargo movement are further discussed in para 3.16. As regards the exces-
sive time required by Customs to clear goods and consignees' papers, a
study to recommend a solution is proposed under the technical assistance
part of the project (para 4.02 (f) and Annex 5) and this, together with the
implementation of improvements, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
based on the study's recommendations, was agreed during negotiations.
C.   Operations
3.12      BPP is directly responsible for all shipping movements and
allocation of ships' berths; it also has direct knowledge of all cargo
movement through its officers stationed on the quays and in the transit
sheds and warehouses; adequate records are maintained by its traffic
division.
3.13      Physical movement of cargo from the ship's hold to transit
shed, open storage, or for direct delivery 1/, is undertaken by 21 private
1/   Direct delivery of break bulk general cargo (small parcels) is not
permitted by Customs.



operating companies (which also function as agents for shipping companies),
licensed by DGSC, which are allocated transit sheds, or a part thereof
by BPP, and Unit Usaha, 1/ operated by BPP. A list of the operating com-
panies and shed allocation is at Table 1. All movements of cargo from
transit sheds and open storage, whether for delivery to consignees or for
further storage in warehouses is performed by forwarding companies (which
also function as Customs agents); some of these companies are also licensed
by DGSC to operate warehouses and open storage areas. Labor is obtained from
the pool operated by UKA.
3.14      Each operating gang comprises 45 men, divided equally between
handling cargo from ship to quay apron, placing and stacking it in shed
or open storage and loading it from shed or storage for delivery to con-
signee; one gang is engaged for each ship's hold being operated. On
average about 7,000 men are employed daily of which about 5,000 are in
the first shift from 0800 hrs to 2000 hrs and the balance in a second
eight hour shift available at the ship's option. There is ample labor
to increase either shift if necessary.
3.15      The cargo handling system is sound in principle and is operated in
many ports, but for many reasons movement of cargo is slow and labor produc-
tivity poor (about 5.7 tons/gang hour for break bulk cargo).  There are too
many operating companies, which leads to inefficiencies. Not all of the
berths allocated to a specific operating company are adjacent (Table 1) and,
although BPP can require an operating company (ship's agent), whose allotted
berths are all occupied, to place a ship at another company's berth, there has
to be agreement between the companies, a procedure which is time consuming
and not always used. Goods are stored in the transit sheds for excessive
periods, due to Customs regulations and BPP's tariff policies (para 6.04).
The requirement that all movement from transit sheds be undertaken by the
forwarding companies rather than by the operating companies also handicaps
the movement of cargo. Lastly, insufficient use is made of mechanical equip-
ment and modern operating procedures, e.g., palletization, due in part, to
the resistance of port labor to changes in traditional methods.
3.16      To achieve required improvements in operating procedures it
is proposed that:
(a) the port shall be divided into operational areas
for cargo-handling operations, as may be agreed
between the Borrower, Bank, and BPP, each to include
the transit sheds and warehouses within its limits
and be enclosed by a Customs fence with control
gate. Each area would be a separate Customs area.
Subject to agreement as noted, areas might be desig-
nated as follows: (i) Nusantara basin area, (ii)
West side of Basin I bounded by P.N. Dok, the Perahu
basin and the Entrepot canal, (iii) the pier between
1/   Unit Usaha has been set up under BPP to operate sheds, as a check
on the performance of other operating companies.



- 10 -
the Perahu basin and the Entrepot canal, (iii) the pier
between Basins I and II, (iv) the pier between Basins II
and III, and (v) in Basin III East (a) general cargo berths
and (b) container cargo operations;
(b) within each agreed area unrestricted movement between
transit sheds and warehouses will be permitted for all
cargo remaining in the sheds beyond the free period,
subject to notification to, but not permission of,
Customs;
(c) sheds allocated to operating companies on each area or
pier shall be arranged so that each company's sheds
shall, to the extent possible, be adjacent. Except as
may otherwise be agreed such arrangement shall be com-
pleted by end 1978. Further, the amalgamation of oper-
ating companies currently being arranged in the Nusan-
tara basin area, if successful, shall be applied as
speedily as possible to the remaining areas of the port;
(d) the warehouses in the Perahu basin area shall consti-
tute a separate storage area for the long-term storage
of such goods as BPP shall designate; with movement
thereto by the forwarding companies after obtaining
permission of Customs;
(e) delivery to all consignees from all areas will be by
the forwarding company of consignee's choice, as at
present following Customs clearance; and
(f) in licensing the operating companies or newly formed
associations of operating companies BPP shall require
them to improve productivity by increased use of
mechanical equipment, with palletization of cargo in
the ships' hold, on the quay, in the transit sheds or
open storage areas, and in subsequent transfers to ware-
houses.
Some of the foregoing proposals will not be easy to implement because the
proposed liberalization of cargo movement would involve the forwarding com-
panies, as well as BPP and Customs. Nevertheless, it is expected such a
reorganization would speed the movement of cargo and increase productivity
about 40% by 1985, following the training of cargo handling labor, for which
technical assistance is provided (para 4.02 (f) and Annex 5). During nego-
tiations an agreed Plan of Action to carry out the above proposals was dis-
cussed and agreed with the Government (Annex 13).
3.17      A team of specialists from the port of Amsterdam, financed by the
Netherlands Government, has worked with BPP since 1973 to advise it on im-
provements in its operational procedures and organization. The foregoing



- LI -
proposals are consistent with those made by the Amsterdam team. The team's
fifth progress report summarizes additional minor changes in day-to-day
operations and organization, which are also important. A total of 150 pro-
posed improvements spread over 15 operational and management disciplines have
been made on which BPP's position is as follows:
Fully implemented                           43
In course of implementation                 45
Mixed solution implemented                  17
Agreed but not yet implemented              43
Rejected                                     2
150
During negotiations, it was further agreed that the Amsterdam team's propo-
sals, agreed by BPP, but not included in the recommendations in para 3.16
should be implemented not later than 24 months after the effective date of
the loan.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Capital Investment Program
4.01      The port's capital investment program for the period 1976-83 totals
about Rp 85 billion (US$205 million) (Table 2). It comprises Phase I of the
master plan, including ongoing construction in Basin III East, which is the
proposed project, expenditures on Phase II of the master plan, expected to
commence in 1979 (Map 12150), continuing expenditures on the ADB-financed
improvements commenced in 1972 and scheduled for completion in early 1977, and
other minor capital works. The timing and content of Phase II is closely
linked to the rate of development of containerization of break bulk general
cargo; if its development is slower than expected, Phase II may have to be
advanced, and would contain greater provision for break bulk and less for
containerized, general cargo.
B.   The Project
4.02      The project consists of Phase I of the master plan and includes
(i) the berths in Basin III East, being constructed by the Government at its
own cost; and (ii) the Bank-financed additional facilities for these berths
and other agreed developments proposed in Phase I, required to meet traffic
requirements to about 1983. More specifically, the project consists of:



- 12 -
(a) Basin III East
(i) completion of the 220 m container berth,
180 m combination berth, and 520 m general
cargo berths under construction by the
Government;
(ii)  three transit sheds, open storage areas, access
road, paving, services and necessary ancillary
works behind the general cargo berths;
(iii) paving of about 6 ha on and behind the container
and combination berths together with necessary
services and ancillary works; and
(iv)  two 40-ton container cranes, specialized mobile
container handling equipment and mechanical
general cargo handling equipment.
(b) The Regional Harbor (Perahu Basin)
(i) construction of 545 m of new berths with transit
sheds, services, access road and ancillary works;
and
(ii)  provision of mechanical general cargo handling
equipment.
(c)  Land Access Improvements
(i) improvements to the main external access road to
the port and entrance gates; and
(ii)  new access roads in the port on the piers between
Basins I and II, and Basins II and III.
(d)  Construction of about 500 houses together with necessary
roads and services on land to be allocated by Jakarta
City Council to replace port workers' houses, which have
to be demolished under the Phase II of the master plan.
(e)  Engineering consultant services for (i) design and super-
vision of the above items except item (a) (i) and provi-
sion of general cargo mechanical equipment, and (ii)
design only, of further improvements to the external
access road proposed under Phase II of the master plan.
(f) Technical assistance and training for accounting, labor,
management, planning and customs procedures.



- 13 -
(g) A study of the distribution methods to be adopted by the
Krakatau Steel Mill.
A detailed description of the Government-financed part of the project is
given in Annex 3, of the Bank-financed part in Annex 4, with details of
the technical assistance and training program in Annex 5. Item (g) has
been included on a request by the Government, approved by the Bank.
4.03      The total estimated project cost is Rp 32,915 million (US$79.3
million equivalent); of which the Government will finance all local costs,
including lease acquisition and compensation, amounting to Rp 15,675 mil-
lion (US$37.8 million equivalent) and the foreign exchange cost of the on-
going construction, item (a)(i) of para 4.02, amounting to Rp 3,960 million
(US$9.5 million equivalent). The proposed Bank loan of US$32 million equiv-
alent (Rp 13,280 million) would finance the foreign exchange cost of the
Bank-financed part of the project.
4.04      Details of the cost estimates are given in Table 3 and are
summarized below:
% of
Total Cost
of Bank-
Rupiah Million           US$ Thousands        Financed
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Works
A. Civil Works                 4,045   3,631   7,676   9,750   8,750  18,500    38
B. Mechanical Equipment           65   3,913   3,978       160   9,430   9,590    20
C. Technical Assistance
and Training             111      622      733     270   1,500   1,770       3
D. Engineering Consulting
Services                  336      976   1,312      800   2,350   3,150       6
E. Base Cost Estimate (BCE)  4,557   9,142  13,699  10,980  22,030  33,010           -
F. Physical Contingencies        801   1,108   1,909   1,930   2,670   4,600    10
(15% BCE)
G. Price Contingencies         1,452   3,030   4,482   3,500   7,300  10,800    23
(about 33% BCE)                                                               _
Total Bank-Financed
Works                   6,810  13,280  20,090  16,410  32,000  48,410   100
H. Tax on above item A           290       -      290      700     -        700
I. Lease Acquisition
and Compensation          830       -       830   2,000      -     2,000
J. Ongoing Government
Works in Basin III
East                       5,245   3,960   9,205  12,640   9,550  22,190
K. Housing Land Acquisition
and House Construction   2,500        -    2,500   6,000       -      6,000
TOTAL                      15,675  17,240  32,915  37,750  41,550  79,300



- 14 -
4.05      The cost estimates for civil works are based on preliminary designs
and unit prices for similar ongoing works in Indonesia, and those for mecha-
nical equipment on recent purchases, both at mid-1975 prices; they are con-
sidered adequate. Physical contingencies are equivalent to 15% BCE, and
price contingencies have been calculated over the period from mid-1975 to
completion of construction, on the basis of 14% of cost increase in 1975, 13%
in 1976 and 12% in 1978 and 1979 for foreign exchange.
4.06      The proposed loan would be made to the Government and, until the
Perum is established, the Government would transfer the proceeds of the pro-
posed loan to BPP under the budgetary procedures without any charge; when
the Perum is set up, BPP will assume as debt, the amount used out of the
Bank loan until that time, as well as the balance to be made available to
BPP thereafter. In order to spell out the on-lending terms, a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would then be signed which would
include 12% interest p.a. and the same repayment terms as the Bank loan.
Submission of a draft of this subsidiary loan agreement which would be
entered into by the Government and the Perum and details of other arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness.
C.   Project Execution
4.07      The Bank-financed part of the project would be executed by BPP with
the assistance of consultants (para 4.10). An adequately staffed project
unit with full responsibility for executing the project and with an adequate
budget is being established in BPP.
4.08      The ongoing Government-financed civil works in Basin III are being
undertaken by a local contractor under BPP's direction, with the assistance
of consultants. Problems have arisen during construction (Annex 3) which it
has been estimated will delay completion of the works by ten months, to
October 1977. However, sufficient work is expected to be completed to enable
the Bank-financed work to commence by March 1977, and to be completed by
mid 1979.
4.09      Additional land, which is essential for completion of the Basin III
general cargo berths and the access road to the container berth (Map 12151),
is owned by the port but leased by six private port-related businesses and
the Customs Department. Alternative land is available in the port area to
enable the lessees to be moved, and they will have to be relocated and appro-
priate compensation paid. Arrangements have been made which will ensure the
availability of the required land for the project by January 1977.
4.10      Land at the North end of Basin III East (Map 12151), required for
the container stacking area, also owned by the port, is leased by two auto
assembly companies. The companies have agreed to move but are requesting
high compensation for relocating. This land would have to be available about
September 1977 if the full container stacking area behind the wharf is to be
completed under the Basin III civil works contract. It is apparent this will
not be the case; however, a 90 m wide apron behind the container berth can be
completed without using any of the leased land and the container cranes can
be erected by September 1977; with these and the apron available, operations



- 15 -
can commence. Containers would be transported by road chassis and tractors
to existing inland container freight stations at Cakung and near the Nusantara
basin (Annex 6). The works required for the full container stacking area be-
hind the berth, noted as a container option on Map 12151, would be undertaken
in about 1979 when work on the second phase of construction is expected to
start, and the required land is expected to be available.
D.   Consulting Services
4.11      Swan Wooster Engineering Co. (Canada), has been appointed by BPP
for final design and supervision of the Bank-financed project items except
for mobile container and general cargo mechanical handling equipmaent, for
which BPP will prepare bidding documents, subject to approval by the Bank.
About 200 man-months of specialist consultant services will also be provided
to carry out the technical assistance and training program (Annex 5) at an
estimated cost of about US$1.3 million.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.12      The Bank-financed project items would be executed under four civil
works contracts and three mechanical equipment procurement contracts (Table
4). Indonesian firms and eligible joint-ventures would be given a 7-1/2%
preference on civil works contracts in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
All contracts except that for housing services but including supply of mate-
rials therefor will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The contract for procure-
ment of the container cranes was let prior to approval of the proposed loan,
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the guidelines,
and will be followed closely by that for mobile container handling equipment.
4.13      The works are expected to be completed by mid-1979 (Table 5) assum-
ing effectiveness of the proposed loan by February 1977. Disbursement for the
project civil works would be on the basis of 50% of total costs, representing
the estimated foreign exchange component. For technical assistance, training,
procurement of mechanical equipment and on account of non-Indonesian consult-
ants, disbursements will be made to meet 100% of the foreign exchange costs.
On account of Indonesian consultants disbursements will be on the basis of
80% of total expenditures. Annual estimated project expendituire is shown in
Table 6, and the estimated schedule of dLshursements for the proposed Bank
loan in Table 7. Retroactive financing, amounting to about US$750,000, may be
required for part of the container crane contract and for consulting services.
F.   Ecology
4.14      None of the proposed works will affect the existing ecology
of the harbor, and the proposed improvement to the external access road,
designed following an assessment of urban and port traffic, was discussed
and agreed with the Jakarta planning organization.



- 16 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      As previously noted, Tanjung Priok is the country's largest general
cargo port, not only serving West Java but also performing an important dis-
tribution function for imported consumer and industrial goods destined for other
islands of the archipelago. Failure to carry through the proposed project or
some acceptable alternative would impose a heavy cost and, ultimately, an upper
limit on the growth of external trade and inter-island traffic. This, in turn,
would have a substantial impact on the prosperity of the Jakarta metropolitan
area and on the development of the other islands, and would also threaten
imported food and other essential supplies destined for West Java. The full
economic costs of such a course are incalculable, but certainly very great.
As a conservative measure of these economic costs, the evaluation uses the
additional ship-waiting time which would result in the absence of the proposed
project. The saving in ship waiting time which is used is that accruing to
the Indonesian economy, although, of course, the benefits of avoiding a res-
traint on economic growth resulting from inadequate port capacity would all
accrue to Indonesia.
5.02      In comparing the situation with and without the project it is
assumed in both cases that the present exclusive berthing practices will be
changed and ships will be berthed, in future, at the first available berth;
it is also assumed in both cases that reorganization and training will be
undertaken, which are expected to increase cargo handling productivity by
40% over the existing rate, by 1985.
5.03      The proposed project would provide facilities for the efficient
handling of an increasing volume of containerized general cargo, thereby
reducing the turnaround time of container ships, and encouraging the use
of larger and more efficient ships (para 5.14); these facilities would be
substantially lower in capital cost than equivalent break bulk facilities
(para 5.13).
B.   Traffic Forecast
5.04      The traffic forecast is based on the underlying assumptions regard-
ing economic growth of Repelita II, the Government's long-term plan for the
period 1975-80, and on forecast growth in population and personal income in
West Java and the metropolitan Jakarta area (Annex 7). Total general cargo
traffic is expected to be about 7.0 million tons in 1985 an increase of some
3.4 million tons from 1975.
5.05      General cargo imports are forecast to increase at an average rate
of 3.9% over the period 1975-85 (Table 8), a rate which reflects declining
imports of steel products and rice due to the substitution, from 1978, of
domestic manufacture of steel and to progress towards self-sufficiency in
rice. It is assumed that growth in imports of other general cargo, which
levelled out in 1974 and 1975, will be resumed by the end of 1976 as world
trade recovers from recession.



- 17 -
5.06      The forecast of containerized general cargo imports is based on
the known plans of shipping companies, and experience at other major ports
in the region regarding the growth of containerization. The proportion of
1985 general cargo imports which is forecast to be containerized is substan-
tially less than the proportion which is potentially containerizable.
5.07      Inter-island general cargo in Tanjung Priok, both inbound and
outbound, grew very rapidly over the period 1970-75, the inbound increasing
at a compound rate of 17.7% p.a., and the outbound at over 15% p.a. (Table 9);
these high-growth rates are forecast to continue through 1978/79, gradually
diminishing thereafter to 12 or 13% in the period 1982-85 (Table 8).
5.08      The major bulk commodities, wheat, fertilizer, cement, and petro-
leum products will continue, throughout the forecast period, to be handled
over specialized berths, the capacity of which should be adequate to handle
the forecast volumes up to at least 1985. The forecast growth in these
commodities, therefore, does not create any additional capacity requirements
or affect the project's economic justification. Additional details of the
traffic forecast are contained in Annex 7.
5.09      The principal risk in the traffic forecast is that a smaller
proportion than forecast of the general cargo traffic will be containerized.
The effect of this would be to bring forward the need for additional
break bulk berths and to defer the need for further container development
under Phase II of the master plan. It would not, however, significantly
affect the justification of the proposed project.
C.   Project Benefits and Risks
5.10      The economic benefits of the proposed project are derived from
a comparison of ship-waiting time with and without the project.  It is
believed that the adoption of a non-exclusive berthing policy would vir-
tually eliminate the present ship-waiting time which, in 1975, averaged
one to two days per ship.  However, even with the changed berthing policy
and the forecast improvement in cargo-handling productivity, berth occu-
pancy without the proposed project would reach about 85% in 1979; by 1982
the present facilities would be close to the saturation point, and ship-
waiting time would increase to about 5,900 ship days.
5.11      The economic costs of the forecast ship-waiting time would increase
from US$2.6 million in 1979 to US$14.2 million in 1982 and in 1983, and there-
after, are assumed to stabilize at US$20 million. The annual amounts of these
benefits are shown in Table 10, and comprise only those benefits accruing to
the Indonesian economy. It should be emphasized that the real economic costs
would be in terms of economic development foregone, and there is no reason to
expect that such costs, for which ship-waiting time is a proxy, would, in fact,
stabilize after 1982; on the contrary, it seems probaeIe-th-att they would con-
tinue to rise.
5.12      The proposed container facilities would permit faster and more
efficient handling of containers than at present, and this is likely to
result in some saving in dock labor costs. At market wage rates this would



- 18 -
amount to about US$300,000 p.a., a benefit of US$150,000 p.a. has been taken
reflecting a shadow wage rate of about 50%. This saving will be achieved
through a reduction in the number of additional workers who would otherwise
be needed to handle forecast traffic increases.
5.13      The proposed container facilities would be at least five times as
productive as break bulk general cargo berths so that about 2,000 m of break
bulk berths, costing about US$50 million, would be required to provide the
same cargo capacity as the 400 m of container berths, costing about US$14
million. Use of break bulk berths in lieu of the proposed container facil-
ities would create an additional 900 jobs, but at an extra capital cost of
US$36 million, or US$40,000 per additional job, an unacceptably high cost for
Indonesia.
5.14      The more efficient container-handling facilities to be provided
would reduce the turnaround time of container ships, would encourage use
of larger, more efficient ships, and would probably result over the long term,
in reduced container freight rates. However, in view of the uncertainty
of the timing and scale of any reduction in freight rates, these have not
been included in the benefits.
5.15      A lower volume of containerized cargo, the principal risk in
the traffic forecast, would reduce the utilization of, and justification
for, the container facilities. However, it is most unlikely that con-
tainer traffic would fall so far short of the forecast as to offset the
saving in capital cost derived from the container facilities. The pro-
vision in the project of a combination berth, which can be used for break
bulk general cargo further reduces the risks in this regard.
D.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.16      The foregoing benefit of ship-waiting time avoided, yields an
economic return of 18% on the proposed project.
5.17      Due to the temporary traffic decline in 1974 and 1975, and to im-
provements in port operations, the return on the project in the initial two
years is low: 4% in 1979 and 5% in 1980, indicating that, if the berthing
policy is changed and cargo-handling productivity is improved, the project
may be somewhat premature. However, as previously noted, the benefit of
avoided ship-waiting time does not cover all the project's economic benefits;
moreover, construction of the project has already commenced, and it would not
be economic to suspend the project on completion of the Government-financed
works, because the sunk investment would yield little benefit without the
backup area to be financed by the Bank.
5.18      The economic return was tested for sensitivity to changes in
the values of the key variables and, within a feasible range, was found to
be sensitive only to changes in capital costs. A 25% increase in capital
costs would reduce the return to 14%.



- 19 -
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      In general, the port's financial position is satisfactory, although,
as already noted, financial relations with the Government need to be altered
and the financial management and accounting staff needs to be strengthened.
Accounting procedures were improved in 1973-74 with the help of ADB-financed
technical assistance, but further changes are required. Technical assistance
for the introduction of various changes proposed is included in the proposed
project and detailed in Annex 5.
B.  Accounting and Costing Systems, Rates and Charges
6.02      ADB-financed experts designed new accounting systems for the port
in 1973-74 which have been partially introduced. They are generally satis-
factory, but as regards assignment of expenses and some procedural matters,
require some modifications (Annex 8). In addition, a costing system to re-
flect all costs involved in particular, port functions should be designed and
implemented (Annex 9). During negotiations, implementation of accounting
and costing systems satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank were agreed,
(Annex 13).
6.03      The establishment of rates for all port services performed is
presently the responsibility of the MOC. A summary of the principal tariff
rates in effect since July 1974 are set forth in Table 11. They represent
substantial increases over those in effect since 1968 and are adequate to
cover all current operating costs, including depreciation.   However, they
are not cost-based, and should be reviewed after determining the costs of
each port function. During negotiations it was agreed that the rates for
each of BPP's services and for each of the services provided by the cargo
handling companies will be based on the costs of each service.
6.04      The present tariff for storage encourages the use of transit sheds
for long-term storage and contributes to congested sheds and reduced port
throughput: for the first six months of 1975, storage revenues totalled 62%
of total operating revenues. Revision of this tariff and those for harbor
dues, berthing dues and wharfage are recommended (Annex 10). During negotia-
tions, agreement was reached that all storage revenues will be collected
solely by BPP in accordance with its tariff and that all payments for cargo-
handling services will be made directly to the cargo-handling companies by
the users of such services; it was also agreed that warehouses will be pro-
vided for the long-term storage of cargo.
C.   Asset Values
6.05      BPP's fixed assets were revalued as of December 31, 1972 at about
Rp 35 billion (Table 12). This value has appeared continuously on the port's
balance sheet since December 31, 1973, although not officially approved
by the MOC until M4ay 1976. The increase in value resulting from the re-
valuation, about Rp 33.7 billion, is subject to a revaluation tax of 10% or



- 20 -
about Rp 3.3 billion in 1976. It was agreed during negotiations that this
tax will be paid by BPP in equal amounts each year 1977 through 1980.
6.06      Further, because of substantial inflation it was agreed during
negotiations that BPP's fixed assets will be revalued from time to time in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate methods of valuation or
revaluation acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Financial Management and Staffing
6.07      Aside from the chief financial officer, the qualified accounting
staff is limited to three people with high school bookkeeping certificates.
In order to carry out expeditiously the proposed financial reorganization
described in para 3.08, the Government agreed during negotiations to
strengthen the financial management accounting staff in a manner, and accord-
ing to a timetable, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and based upon
the recommendations of accounting consultants (Annexes 5 and 13).
E.   Past Earnings and Current Financial Position
6.08      Actual operating revenues, operating expenses and net income for the
12 months period 1972/73, the last nine months of 1973, the calendar year 1974
and the calendar year 1975 are set forth in Table 14. The following ratios
reflect the earnings results of these four periods.
9 mos.
Ratios                           1972/73    1973       1974     1975
Operating                            67         82        58        60
Return on Net Operating Revenues   61.9          1.6      11.1      19.8
Return (After Taxes                  27.8        1.0       5.9     10.4
But Before National Development
Fund Payments)
These ratios are satisfactory except for the shortened period in 1973 when BPP's
fiscal year was changed to the calendar year. The results in 1975 reflect the
full impact of the tariff increases effected in July 1974 as well as the in-
creases in wage rates (Table 13). Total revenues in 1975 were 87% higher than
in 1974 and net operating revenues rose in 1975 by about 80%. The accounts
show no interest expense since funds for capital additions and improvements
have been for the account of the Government.
6.09      Net operating revenues have been adversely affected by the practice,
introduced in 1973, of payments by BPP to the operating companies of 20% of
storage charges for the first 15-day period and 10% of such charges thereafter;
in the first six months of 1975, the payments amounted to approximately 10% of
total port revenues. These payments to the private companies are assertedly
to cover their administrative costs; but the cargo handling charges of private
companies should be reasonably related to all their costs and none should be
recovered from the port. The practice appears inherently unreasonable and



- 21 -
should be discontinued. This matter was discussed during negotiations and
agreement was reached on a revision of the financial relations between BPP
and its operating companies (para 6.04).
6.10      Previous years' assessments of income tax and National Development
Fund (NDF) payments due, have been excessive because of the low annual de-
preciation included in the accounts, which reflected the under-valuation of
assets. Further the port has not paid its income taxes and its NDF obligations
in full; and at the same time it has not been paid by Government departments
for many of its services in respect of Government cargo. It was agreed during
negotiations that by July 1, 1977 the Government will prepare a plan for the
full settlement of all such claims and implement it after consulting with the
Bank. It was also agreed that Government will ensure that all future amounts
owed for port services by the Government and any of its departments, agencies
or enterprises will be promptly paid when due.
6.11      Balance sheet data as of March 31, 1973, December 31, 1973, 1974
and 1975 are set forth in Table 15. Current ratios and liquid ratios have
been good, the former ranging between 3.8 and 1.6 and the latter between 3.6
and 1.5. The balance sheets show no long-term debt. Explanatory notes are
set forth in Annex 11.
6.12      The current assets include accounts receivable which are long
outstanding (Annex 11). A correct basis for the statement of current assets
and liabilities will be established by the consulting accountant.
F.   Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.13      Estimated revenues, expenses and net income for 1976-82 are shown
in Table 14. The principal bases and assumptions on which the estimates are
made are set forth in Annex 12 and include BPP assumption of debt to the
Government for the proposed Bank loan for a similar term at an interest rate
of 12% p.a. under a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.06).
6.14      For the years 1976-82, forecast revenues follow closely the traffic
forecast in terms of the units employed in the existing tariff except for
storage. It is assumed that cost based tariffs will be introduced on January
1, 1979 which will considerably increase storage charges and reduce the volume
of cargo being held in transit storage areas. Storage revenue, which is now
disproportionately high due to huge quantities of cargo stored at cheap rates,
will decline. This revenue loss in 1979 is however, expected to be largely
offset by an extension of warehousing services and an increase of wharfage
charges which currently do not meet the costs of the service and constitute
a mere 1% of total port revenue. In addition to the proposed adjustment to
existing rates described above overall tariff increases of 10% effective
September 1, 1979 and 20% effective September 1, 1980 have been provided for.
Forecast expenses have been directly related to vessel and cargo traffic, as
appropriate (Annex 12). Inflation has been estimated at 12% in each year
1977, 1978 and 1979, and 10% in 1980, 1981 and 1982. The cumulative effect
increases working expenses by 12% in 1977, 25% in 1978, 40% in 1979, 55% in
1980, 70% in 1981 and 87% in 1982.



- 22 -
6.15      Operating ratios range from 60% in 1977 to 78% in 1982; times
interest earned, reflecting assumption of the ADB loan and future debt, and
debt service coverage are never less favorable than 1.5 and 1.9 respectively
in 1982. These ratios are satisfactory.
6.16      Estimated balance sheet data for the years 1976-82 are shown in
Table 16. The principal bases and assumptions on which the projections have
been made are referred to in Annex 12. The assumption of the responsibility
for the service of long-term debt (para 3.08) will adversely affect port
finances but, with the tariff levels assumed, not to an unacceptable degree;
the debt/equity ratio rises to only 38/62 by 1982. The financial projections
also show that the maximum debt service ratio to net revenue in 1982 would be
1:1.9. It was agreed during negotiations that no new debt would be incurred
if these rates fell below 1.75. The current and liquid ratios reach a peak
of 2.5 and 2.3, respectively, in 1981 and 1982, and remain at favorable levels
throughout the period. The port's future financial position will be satis-
factory.
6.17      The rates of return on average net fixed assets in use for the
1976-82 period calculated on various bases as reflected by the financial
forecasts are set forth below:
Return after
Return             Income taxes and
After Depreciation          Revaluation
before interest           Tax Payments
1976                        18.3                      10.1
1977                        20.2                       9.1
1978                        16.2                       7.8
1979                         9.4                       5.3
1980                         9.4                       5.8
1981                        12.2                       9.3
1982                        10.0                       8.7
The returns on average net fixed assets in use are satisfactory. It was
agreed during negotiations that BPP shall earn after income and revaluation
tax payments but before contribution to the NDF a return of not less than 5%
of the average current net value of BPP's fixed assets in service in the fis-
cal years 1977-80 inclusive and not less than 7% thereafter. Because of the
impracticability of earning such a return in any year in which a revaluation
tax accrues, it was further agreed that the 1976 revaluation tax would be
paid by BPP (along with other arrears) in four equal amounts in 1977 through
1980, and that the return would be calculated on that basis. With respect to
future revaluations and the tax thereon, it was further agreed that for pur-
poses of calculating the return, any tax payable will be deemed to be paid in
equal installments over a period of four years, that is, the year in which it
is incurred and the following three years.



- 23 -
G.   Cash Position and Financial Plan
6.18      Estimated cash flow data for the forecast period are set forth in
Table 17, which takes into account agreements reached during negotiations
concerning the payment of arrears to Government for back taxes and the tax
on the revaluation of 1973, current fixed payments to Government for taxes
and contributions to the NDF. The cash position is made satisfactory by the
inclusion of equity contributions by Government totalling Rp 17.3 billion
during the 1976-82 period. Because of the massive withdrawal of cash by
Government amounting in the aggregate to more than Rp 33.0 billion, the cash
position would be negative in every future year, if the equity contributions
were not made. The amount of such contributions each year by Government is
determined in the cash flow statement by the assumption that BPP's cash work-
ing capital needs are about 12.5% of its annual working expenses. This is
reasonable considering the revenue collection experience of BPP. The payment
by Government for services received from BPP (para 6.10), as agreed during
negotiations, are reflected in the cash flow statement in the negative and
low increase in working capital in the years 1977 and 1978. Based on all
assumptions referred to herein the future cash position will be satisfactory
if expenditures on other capital works are limited to US$1 million p.a.,
except in 1977 and 1978 when works in Basin 1 financed by BPP will be in pro-
gress. This was agreed during negotiations. The financial plan (Table 18)
based on the cash flow estimates indicates that for the period 1976-79, in-
ternally generated funds would provide 19.5% of investment program require-
ments; and that this percentage would be nearly 19% in the full period 1976-82.
This is satisfactory. The BPP contributions to its investment program could
be much higher but for its payments to the NDF totalling Rp 9.1 billion during
1976-82. To this extent the Government's equity contributions can be con-
sidered as a return of BPP's internally generated funds.
H.   Auditing and Insurance
6.19      External auditing is now the sole responsibility of the Government
Auditing Office, in the MOF. It is performed continuously by a team of six
auditors, whose main function is to ensure compliance with the approved port
budgets covering all expenditures, both capital and operating. The auditors'
reports are transmitted to the MOC and are not received by the chief of the
port's finance division; the report for the year 1971/72 was completed about
July 1975. Agreement was reached during negotiations that independent ex-
ternal auditors satisfactory to the Bank will be employed to have the accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied; and to furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in no case later than four months after the end of
each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by the auditors.
6.20      Present insurance practices cover only life and accident insurance
for the staff and fire insurance on the shed used for the holding of danger-
ous cargo, and is inadequate. It was agreed during negotiations that the
port shall make provision for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate port management practices.



- 24 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      At negotiations, the Government confirmed that:
(a) it will establish an organization within DGSC res-
ponsible for ports and dredging (para 3.04);
(b) an adequately staffed project unit is being established
within BPP with an adequate budget (para 4.06); and
(c) the ongoing works in Basin III are expected to be
sufficiently advanced to enable the Bank-financed
work to commence in March 1977 (para 4.08).
7.02      Submission of a draft of the subsidiary loan agreement which would
be entered into by the Government and the Perum and of the details of arrange-
ments for passing on the loan to BPP prior to the formation of the Perum, all
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness (para 4.06).
7.03      At negotiations, the following were the other major agreements
reached with the Government:
(a) A "Perum" for ports and dredging is to be established
in DGSC as well as an adequately staffed planning
organization; an inventory of facilities at all existing
ports to be prepared by the Ports Directorate; and a sur-
vey of RLS ports to be carried out (paras 3.04 and 3.05);
(b) BPP will be part of the overall Perum with exclusive
responsibility for management of its own assets; its
operational and maintenance departments are to be
restructured and cargo handling areas reorganized,
together with grouping of operating and forwarding
companies, and liberalization of cargo movements, in
order to improve operational results (paras 3.08
and 3.16);
(c) BPP to implement the Amsterdam team's proposals (para 3.17);
(d) BPP to implement revised accounting and costing systems
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank (para 6.02);
to introduce a cost-based tariff (para 6.03); to
strengthen its financial management and accounting
staff (para 6.07);
(e) No new debt to be serviced by BPP shall be incurred if the
BPP's net revenues in the prior year is less than 1.75 times
its debt service in any future year (para 6.16); and



- 25 -
(f)  BPP shall earn, after all taxes but before NDF contributions,
a return of not less than 5% of the average current net
value of its fixed assets in service in fiscal year 1977
to 1980 inclusive and not less than 7% thereafter
(para 6.17).
7.04      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$32 million equivalent
to the Government of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a four-year
grace period. BPP will assume a debt to the Government equivalent to the
Bank loan, for the same term, but at 12% interest. A subsidiary agreement
satisfactory to the Bank will be signed to this effect.
September 1976






ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Asian Development Bank Financed Project 1972
The project comprised:
(a) upgrading and widening of aprons and transit shed
floors;
(b) strengthening of the breakwater;
(c) rehabilitation of all existing transit sheds and
reconstruction of four transit sheds on the west
side of the Basin I;
(d) construction and improvement of roads, open storage
areas and parking areas;
(e) replacement and rebuilding of the water supply system;
(f) rehabilitation and construction of drainage, fenders
and fences;
(g) installation of a new lighting system;
(h) procurement of cargo handling equipment and a 1,500 hp
tugboat; and
(i) provision of consultants services.
The estimated total cost is Rp 4.7 billion (US$11.3 million equivalent).
September 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Existing Facilities at Tanjung Priok
(Map 12150)
A.   Approaches, Navigation and Floating Equipment
1.        Tanjung Priok is approached from seaward by an entrance channel
with approximately 11 m 1/ depth of water between the breakwater arms at the
western end of the port; a main East-West channel in the deepsea harbor be-
hind the breakwater, also with about 11 m depth of water, which serves
Basins I, II and III and the oil basin; and the Nusantara basin channel to
the Regional harbor with soye 6 m depth of water. Maintenance dredging is
moderate at about 200,000 m p.a. occurs mainly in the oil basin where a main
drainage canal discharges. Basins I and II each have 8 m depth of water
(10,000 dwt ships), Basin III, 10 m (20,000 dwt ships), the Nusantara basin
4.5 m (2,000 dwt ships) and the oil basin 11 m (45,000 dwt ships). A new
entrance channel with 12.5 m depth of water (60,000 dwt ships) is being
dredged at the eastern end of the port and will mainly serve the oil basin.
Tidal range is 1.4 m and mean high water about 0.9 m. The existing 8,500 m
long breakwater is adequate.
2.        Navigational aids are satisfactory except that the power of some
lights needs to be increased; night navigation is possible but little used.
Pilotage is required for all vessels, excepting those under 20 m length, and
presents no problems.
3.        Tugs available are adequate and include one new 1,500 hp just
received, two to be delivered in 1976 and five about 10 years of age; the
latter may require replacement during the period 1980-85; the pilot and
mooring boats available are adequate. There are three floating cranes
with nominal capacities of 15, 60 and 200 tons.  Within the port area
there is one major shipbuilding and repair yard (P.N. Dok) and two smaller
ones.
B.   The Overseas Harbor
4.        Berthing space for general cargo ships in the overseas harbor
(Basins I (East), II and III) is provided on two finger piers each 1,030 m
long and 300 m wide, and amounts to some 3,650 m, excluding 700 m currently
1/   All depths are at LWOST.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
under construction in Basin I; due to the disposition of sheds relatively
to available berthing space, this is effectively reduced to 3,200 m for
cyrgo handling. There are 20 alongside transit sheds which provide 90,000
m storage space (Table 1). Bulk berths are available for cement (P.T.
Salman Cement Co.) and fertilizer (Pertamina Gulf) 180 m and 160 m long 2
respectively with two cement storage silos of 26,000 tons and a 15,600 m
fertilizer storage shed. The available apron space on many berths has been
improved under an ADB-financed project (Annex 1), as has access to the rear
of the sheds and the open storage areas; improvements have also been made to
water and electricity services. The overseas harbor can accommodate regional
traffic if necessary.
C.   The Regional Harbor
5.        The Regional harbor (Basin I (West) and Nusantara basin) currently
comprises some 2,100 m berthing s Face (1,950 m effective) and has 15 transit
sheds which provide some 64,000 m storage space, four of the sheds are
new and were provided under the ADB project. The existing Perahu basin can-
not presently accommodate ships, and is used by barges which mainly handle
dangerous cargoes, off-loaded at buoy berths located at the Western harbor
entrance. The berths in Basin I which are included in the Regional harbor
could accommodate overseas vessels if necessary.
D.   General
6.        Adequate warehousing and open storage are available in both
harbors and provision is made for separate storage of dangerous cargoes.
Fresh water and bunkering services are available either by barge or at
the berths.
7.        Cargo handling equipment available from BPP comprises twenty 5-ton
forklifts, three 5-ton mobile cranes, two tractors and ten lowbed trailers,
all practically new. About sixty-five 2.5-ton forklift trucks are provided
by the operating companies. There are also twelve 3-ton capacity portal
cranes which are no longer used and should be disposed of.
8.        The port is served by road and rail but, except for fertilizer
imports and petroleum products, only 2% of traffic is delivered by rail.
Roads within the port are generally satisfactory, though some improvements
are proposed; external road access to the port and the entrance gates require
considerable improvement; these are included in the proposed project
(Annex 4).
September 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Description of Ongoing Government Works in Basin III
1.        The Government-financed construction in progress on the East side
of Basin III, behind which the Bank-financed works in the area are to be
constructed, comprises a 920 m long reinforced concrete piled structure
dredged to 11 m depth alongside. This will provide 520 m berthing space
for general cargo ships, 220 m for container ships and 180 m for use by
either type of ship (combination berth). Provision is made for placing
container crane rails on the container and combination berths.
2.        The berths are being constructed with precast deck units, over
which in-site concrete is placed to key the beam and slab units together
and provide the finished surface. The deck is supported on five rows of
piles over a width of 22.5 m, with a 2.5 m wide fendering beam overhanging
the seaward row of piles to give a total deck width of 25 m. The piles are
spaced at 5.64 m centers along the length of the wharf.
3.        Construction is being carried out with the inshore edge of the
deck approximately 80 m from the existing undeveloped shoreline to take
full advantage of the existing water depth in Basin III and reduce dredging
requirements. The space between the structure and the existing shoreline
will be sand filled, terminating in a sloping face under the width of the
structure with its toe at the alongside dredged level. The sloping face
is covered by a rock blanket for protection against scour.
4.        The piles are about 25 m long founded at approximately -22 m
level and are designed to carry loads of 180 tons and 235 tons respect-
ively under the general cargo and container sections. They are being
tested to 270 tons and 350 tons loading respectively. Some of the piles
which failed the test have been or will be re-driven. Pile testing and the
required re-driving has been done for about half the total piles, but re-
driving and testing has still to be done on the remaining piles already
driven on the combination and container berth sections.
5.        Difficulties have arisen concerning the placing of the sand fill
behind the reinforced concrete structure. Tests have shown the existence
of a layer of soft clay on the seabed about I m thick which, unless special
measures are taken, will imperil the stability of the sand fill and cause a
risk of it sliding forward into the basin. The simplest solution would be
to dredge out all the soft layer but, because the piles have been driven and
about 150 m of deck placed at the South end, this is impractical. It is,
therefore, proposed to excavate the soft material in trenches between



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the piles and for some distance in front of and behind the driven piles, stab-
ilize the selected sand fill by vibroflotation and provide rock fill to the
base of the excavated trenches; finally a relieving platform will be provided
behind the wharf structure. BPP's consultants for the work have devised the
remedial measures and the Bank has been kept informed. The necessity for this
additional work will delay placing the fill, and excavation of the trenches
will be difficult.
6.        BPP have advised the Bank that the works will be delayed as a
result of the above problems, but will be completed by October 1977; assur-
ances have been given, however, that the work will be programmed to ensure
that sufficient work will be completed to enable the Bank-financed civil
works contract for Basin III to commence in January 1977 (Annex 4).
September 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Bank-Financed Project
Basin III
1.        Complementing the berths being constructed by the Government
(Annex 3), the civil works contract will include demolition of the exist-
ing buildings on the land to be acquired, and filling of the Koja canal;
appropriate rock protection against scour will be provided to 'the slope
of the fill material where the canal originally joined the Koja Terusan.
These preparation works, together with the Government-constructed concrete
berths and the filled area behind them, will provide the construction area
on which will be provided:
(a) For the General Cargo Berths (520 m)
Three clear span transit sheds each 120 m x 50 m, with
30 m surfaced apron in front and 45 m openings between
sheds for access to 3.6 ha open storage area. Behind
the transit sheds truck loading space will be available
and a 15 m wide access road. 11 m depth of water (30,000
dwt ships) will be available alongside at LWOST.
(b) For the Combination Berth (180 m) and Container Berth (220 m)
The area to be paved behind the front edge of the berths
is about 6 ha. About 25 m width at the front of the berths
will be required for crane movement and the balance of about
5 ha will permit direct loading of containers on to road
chassis for conveyance to inland container handling depots,
and temporary storage of a limited number of containers in
the event the road chassis are delayed for any reason. De-
tails of the scheme are at Annex 6. 11 m depth of water will
be available alongside at LWOST.
2.        All paving will be asphaltic concrete, sloped to provide ade-
quate drainage; water supply, electricity, sewage, bunkering and fire-
fighting services will be provided. Ancillary works will include main-
tenance garages, a BPP office, Customs office space, a labor unit, and
a gatehouse.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        General cargo handling equipment to be provided will be:
25  -   3 ton forklift trucks
3  -  15 ton forklift trucks
2  -  10 ton mobile cranes
3  -  tractors
15  -  trailers
4.        The container handling system is based upon the use of two 40-ton
container cranes with 35 m outreach, which will offload containers from the
ships to road chassis for conveyance to the inland container depots. Stacking
at the inland depot, at Cakung will be by rubber tire mounted overhead cranes,
which will span the stacking area. For movement from the stack to the con-
tainer freight shed, the overhead cranes will place containers on flat-bed
trailers which will be towed to the door of the shed for direct cargo unload-
ing by 1-1/2 ton forklifts. Heavy forklifts are included in the equipment to
move a container from a damaged trailer, and for general use (Annex 6). Total
equipment will be:
2 - 40-ton container cranes
2  -  rubber tire mounted overhead cranes
40  -  flatbed trailers
11  -  tractors
2  -  20-ton forklift trucks
20  -  1-1/2-ton forklift trucks
Containers moved to the "Trisari" site near the Nusantara basin will be
handled by the existing equipment there. Chassis-mounted containers will be
moved from the site by the shipping companies to the inshore container hand-
ling facility.
Regional Harbor
5.        The new construStion in the Regional harbor (Perahu basin) will
require about 6,000,000 m dredging to provide access to the new 545 m long
reinforced concrete, open-piled berths which are to be built with 6 m
depth of water alongside. Three transit sheds, one of 100 m x 50 m and two
of 112 m x 50 m, will be provided behind a 20 m berth apron, with space for
truck loading and 3.5 ha open storage area behind the sheds. A new access
road approximately 1 km in length is to be provided.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        Paving will be asphaltic concrete sloped to provide adequate
drainage, and water supply electricity, sewage, bunkering and fire fighting
services will be provided. Ancillary works will include a maintenance
garage, labor unit and gatehouse.
7.        Mechanical cargo handling equipment to be provided comprises:
25 - 3-ton forklift trucks
2 - 20-ton mobile cranes
Improvements to Existing Road Access
8.        The works on the external access roads will (i) improve the
access from Jalan Martadinata to the Nusantara basin at entrance gate
No. 1 by provision of one-way access ramps; (ii) widen Jalan Martadinata
between entrance gates Nos. 1 and 2 and provide one-way access ramps to
gate No. 2; (iii) provide a flyover to join Jalan Martadinata with Jalan
Enggano, which will cross the existing rail access to the port and the
existing road system serving the railway and bus stations, and terminate
on Jalan Enggano approximately in line with the East side of Basin I.
The existing bus station will be relocated; (iv) widen Jalan Martadinata
westward from gate No. 1 for about 5 km and (v) provide traffic control
lights at entrance gate No. 3. All the above proposals were designed
following assessment of urban and port traffic and were discussed and
agreed with the Jakarta planning organization.
9.        Inside the port, separate new main access roads along the centres
of each of the piers between Basins I and II and between Basins II and III
are to be constructed.
10.       Future improvements to the external access roads, for which
action under the present loan will be limited to detailed design, are
(i) a flyover at the junction of Jalan Enggano and the existing Jakarta
by-pass road and (ii) a new extension of Jalan Enggano to the eastward
from its junction with the Jakarta by-pass to join the Cilincing road
adjacent to the existing oil basin.
Housing Site Services
11.       The proposed phase II expansion of the port and the future improve-
ments to the land access (para 10) will involve demolition of some 500 houses
which will have to be replaced before these works can commence. Assistance
in financing the provision of services for the required houses has accordingly
been included in the proposed loan. Land on which the new houses are to be
constructed will be provided by Jakarta City Council and, until this is
allocated, details of precise requirements cannot be determined; provision
for the services has been made on the basis of US$2,000 per house, for com-
parable facilities to those currently existing.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Technical Assistance and Training
12.       Details of the technical assistance and training program are
given in Annex 5.
Consulting Services
13.       Swan Wooster Engineering Co. (Canada) has been appointed by
BPP and the Government to prepare final designs and tender documents for
the works except for general cargo and mobile container handling equipment
but including the container cranes, described in paras 1-10, and for super-
vision of construction thereof.
September 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program
1.        The technical assistance and training program will provide 202
man-months of consultant services and cover four distinct areas of port
operations, labor training, accounting procedures, management and opera-
tions improvements and customs procedures, as well as assistance for
improving planning procedures in DGSC. Details of the proposal's in each
case are given below. The Bank has also been requested to finance a study
of the best means for distributing the products of the Krakatau Steel Mill,
which is expected to be in production in 1978, and finance for this study,
is included in the proposed loan. Provision of equipment required to im-
plement the training programs has been included as part of the general
mechanical equipment procurement.
Labor Training
(a) Cargo Handling
2.        Currently the cargo handling productivity in the port is low -
5.7 tons per gang hour - due in part to the comparatively little use made
of mechanical handling equipment and palletization of cargo, but also to
the traditional attitudes of labor and its lack of training in modern
general cargo handling methods, although BPP has started a training
school.
3.        It is proposed to provide a mock-up of a typical ship's hatch
and cargo hold, complete with derricks and ancillary equipment such as
pallets, forklift trucks, slings and other tackle required to train
gangs in modern methods. Specialized instructors will advise on the re-
quired equipment, prepare the syllabus, train Indonesian counterpart
instructors and monitor the program's initial courses. Provision is
made for:
Equipment US$120,000 equivalent
Two instructors for 12 months (24 man-months)
(b) Maintenance Tradesmen
4.        The maintenance crews in the port seriously lack qualified
tradesmen who cannot be obtained by recruitment as there is a general lack
in the country. Provision is, therefore, included for equipping a small



ANNEX 5
Page 2
tradesmen's school and for providing instructors to prepare appropriate
syllabuses, train Indonesian instructors and monitor the program's initial
courses:
Equipment US$200,000 equivalent
Three instructors for 24 months (72 man-months)
However, before any new arrangements are concluded, the possibility of
using existing training facilities will be fully explored by the Bank's
training specialists. In the event this proves possible and the alloca-
tion for the purpose can be scaled down, any surplus funds would be
transferred to contingencies.
Accounting Procedures
5.        In order to prepare the revised accounting procedures proposed
in Chapter VI and Annexes 8 and 9 and to train staff in the required pro-
cedures, specialist consultant assistance will be provided as follows:
Two consultants for 24 months )    man-months)
One consultant for 12 months  )(6)
Management and Operations Improvements
(^}  Management Training (middle management)
6.        There is a need for BPP to train middle-management level staff
to improve the current management procedures and provide for additional
staff for expansion, consistent with increasing traffic. This can best
be achieved by using the existing facilities at Bandung Technical Insti-
tute. Provision in this program is for a training specialist to prepare
and agree with the Institute an appropriate program and to monitor the
initial course.
One instructor for 6 months (6 man-months)
(b) Container Operations
7.        In order to take full advantage of the new container facilities
which BPP will operate, it is proposed that three teams of six persons
from their staff (drivers and supervisors), should attend training
courses in container-handling techniques, including appropriate recording
procedures and methods, at Hong Kong or Singapore. Estimated cost is
US$200,000.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Customs Procedures
8.        A small study is proposed to investigate existing procedures
and recommend changes, so as to simplify and expedite the processing of
consignees' documents, the payment of proper dues, and the release of
goods to consignees. This study should be undertaken by a specialist
consultant experienced in port operations and Customs-related procedures
and be completed within 18 months of the loans becoming effective.
One consultant for 4 months (4 man-months)
Planning Assistance for DGSC
9.   (a)  To prepare the required survey of ports used by the
RLS fleet, it is proposed that one operations and one
engineering specialist visit each of the ports, record
the facilities existing and their condition, and re-
commend improvements of a minor nature (not in excess
of US$500,000) which could be undertaken immediately
to expedite the turnaround time of RLS ships. Any
major improvements identified would be subject to
subsequent feasibility studies.
Two consultants for 9 months each (18 months)
(b) To set up a data collection system for recording
assets of each port, capital expenditures and
traffic data. The consultants will also advise
on the future development of the planning function,
including organization, staffing and planning
methodology.
Two consultants for 9 months each (18 months)
Krakatau Steel Mill Distribution
10.       A study for the distribution of the products of Krakatau
Steel Mill, requested by the Government, is proposed to be undertaken
in accordance with outline terms of reference to be agreed between
the Bank and the Government. A sum of US$250,000 is included for this
purpose.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
11.       The cost of the above technical assistance and training program
is calculated as follows:
US$
Consultants 202 man-months x 6,500             1,313,000 /a
Container Operations Training                    200,000
Krakatau Steel Diptribution Study                250,000
Total                       1,763,000
Say                         1,770,000
/a   includes US$50,000 for airfares and US$300,000
local reimbursable costs.
September 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Alternative Container Handling System
Pending Completion of the Container Stacking Area
1.        The Government and BPP are anxious to free the general cargo berths
of the growing container traffic and place the new container wharf in service
by September 1977, when it should be possible to have the container cranes
erected and the berth apron surfaced; arrangements as proposed below, will be
required to handle the container traffic.
2.        A 90 m wide apron will be provided behind the container berth face
without taking any area of the land leased by the auto assembly companies.
After allowing for the 25 m width of the container cranes, an operating space
65 m wide will be available. This is adequate to permit road chassis and
tractors, using a one-way system, to enter on the berth from the new access
road, proceed parallel with the new rear fence and turn into line with the
overhang of the container cranes under which the containers are lowered.
Thus, chassis and road tractors could continously move containers, loaded
directly onto them by the cranes, to inshore container handling facilities
which exist at Cakung (about 12 km to the east of the port) and at the
"Trisari" installation adjacent to the Nusantara basin (about 3 km to the
west).
3.        In the event of a delay in the cycle there will be sufficient
space to stack a limited number of containers on the container and com-
bination berths for later movement; thus ship unloading would not be
delayed.
4.        The procedures would be:
(a) containers would be offloaded from ship by the two
40-ton container cranes and delivered onto road
chassis and tractors to be taken to Cakung, or
"Trisari" at the rate of 15 per hour for each
crane; (offloading equipment is available at
"Trisari");
(b)  the containers would be offloaded from road chassis
to stack at Cakung;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c) containers would be moved from the stack at Cakung
to the container freight sheds (cfs) located there
for stuffing and unstuffing and returned to stack;
and
(d) it would be necessary to handle containers to
temporary stack on the berth in the event a road
chassis is not available when a container is
offloaded.
5.        Equipment required to carry out the procedures outlined in
para 4 above has been calculated on the following basis:
(a) each movement to stack on the berth would take about
eight minutes, therefore three tractors and trailer
could handle this requirement adequately (each trailer
will be provided with a tractor to avoid risk of any
delay); the limited number of containers involved could
be handled off the trailers by a 20-ton forklift truck;
(b)  for the movement from berth to Cakung (12 km) the round-
trip would take 50 minutes assuming: (i) the time required
to put a container on the chassis and make it secure is
five minutes; (ii) the round trip by road will be 40
minutes and (iii) to offload at Cakung to stack will
take 5 minutes. Containers are expected to be offloaded
from the ships at an average of 15 per hour by each container
crane. Therefore, if a chassis is to be available under
each container crane every 4 minutes, about 30 road chassis
and tractors would be required. An allowance of one-third
extra is made to cover inevitable delays in the theoretical
timetable equipment failures and possible faster unloading
at times, i.e., 40 road chassis and road trailers will be
required;
(c) for offloading to stack and movement from the stack to the
cfs at Cakung flatbed trailers and tractors will be used,
loaded by two rubber tired overhead crane units; and
(d) for handling containers off a damaged chassis (flat tires
etc) and other handling, as may be required, one - 20-ton
forklift truck will be required at the berth and at Cakung;
for unstuffing containers at the cfs in Cakung, one 1/2-ton
forklift truck will remove cargo from the containers.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.   Rubber tired overhead crane units, tractors and trailers (Annex 4) are
being provided to ensure availability equipment for operating the container
stacking area expected to be constructed about 1979 if the necessary land is
available; as well as to meet the requirements outlined in para 4. Road
chassis and tractors are not, however, proposed for the latter scheme and
will have to be provided in addition. BPP proposed to require the shipping
companies handling containers to provide the necessary road chassis and trac-
tors and this is considered reasonable, as they are doing this at present.
September 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
General Cargo Imports
1.        The projection is based on the economic projections underlying
Repelita II, the Government's long-term plan for the period 1975-80, namely:
(a) growth in GDP of 7% to 9% p.a.;
(b) growth in industrial production of 12% to 13% p,a.; and
(c) growth in per capita income of 4% p.a.
2.        In addition, population growth over the period 1975-80 is estimated
to be 2,5% p.a. in West Java and 4% p.a. in the metropolitan Jakarta area,
while personal income growth in these areas is estimated at 6.5% to 8% p.a.
3.        A comparatively low growth is forecast for general cargo imports,
3.9% over the period 1975-85 (Table 8), reflecting declining imports of steel
and rice due to the substitution of domestic manufacture of steel from 1978,
and progress towards self-sufficiency in rice.
General Cargo Exports
4.        The primary exports of West Java, rubber, tea and coffee, have been
stable for many years and are not expected to increase in the future.
5.        Light manufacturing, such as toys, textiles, furniture and consumer
electronic goods is expected to grow at 12% to 13% p.a. in metropolitan
Jakarta. However, most of this increased production will be for the
domestic market and, in light of the strong competition in these fields
from other countries in the region, no increase in exports is forecast.
Growth of light industry will, however, result in an increase in demand
for imports of capital goods, and this has been taken into account in the
forecast of general cargo imports.
Inter-island General Cargo - Inbound
6.        Inbound inter-island general cargo has shown a consistently high
growth rate over the last five years, averaging 17.7% from 1970-75 (Table 9).



ANNEX 7
Page 2
A high growth rate of 17% p.a. is forecast to continue through 1978, gra-
dually declining thereafter to about 12% p.a. over the period 1982-85. Types
of general cargo contributing to this high growth rate include asphalt,
construction materials, chemicals, and what may be a significant volume of
cargo redistributed after importation through other Indonesian ports. This
latter is expected to be substantially reduced once the proposed facilities
are in operation.
Inter-island General Cargo - Outbound
7.        Outbound inter-island general cargo has also increased rapidly
over the last five years, its growth averaging over 15% in 1970-75 (Table
9). This growth has shown less year-to-year consistency than in the case
of inbound inter-island general cargo however, in light of the Government's
program of import substitution for manufactured goods, it is expected that
consumer goods manufactured in the Jakarta area will increasingly supply
the demands of other parts of Indonesia. A high rate of growth in such
outbound cargo is therefore forecast to continue through 1979, gradually
diminishing thereafter to about 13% in 1982-85.  Imports of capital goods
destined for other Indonesian ports are expected to continue to move via
Tanjung Priok and will contribute to this growth although, after 1979,
when improvements to Belawan and Surabaya are expected to be complete,
this traffic is expected to diminish.
Total General Cargo
8.        Overall growth in general cargo is forecast to average 7.5% p.a.
over the period 1976-85 (Table 8).
Homogeneous Dry Cargo and Petroleum
9.        Wheat, fertilizer, cement and petroleum products and fodder
will continue, throughout the forecast period, to be handled over
specialized berths, the capacity of which is adequate to handle the
forecast volumes up to at least 1985. The forecast growth in these com-
modities, therefore, does not create any additional capacity requirements
or affect the project's economic justification.
10.       The growth rate for wheat imports, nearly 9% p.a., is based
on population growth, increase in per capita income in the Jakarta area
and the income elasticity of demand for wheat, estimated for the period
to 1985 at 1.0.
11.       At present, substantial quantities of fertilizers are imported
through Tanjung Priok. As an existing urea plant at Palembang (Sumatera)
is expanded and the product shipped directly to domestic ports, the volume
of imports will diminish. However, supplies of urea and other special
fertilizers for West Java, whether imported or domestic, will continue



ANNEX 7
Page 3
to move through Tanjung Priok at about the present level until a urea
plant, planned for the Cirebon area, is completed about the end of 1978.
Once it is in full operation, the Cirebon plant is expected to supply
about a third of Tanjung Priok's present hinterland. Accordingly, ship-
ments of fertilizer of all types are forecast to decline from 400,000
tons in 1978 to 300,000 tons in 1980.
12.       The present level of cement imports (1.1 million tons in 1975)
is expected to be steadily reduced through 1981 as manufacturing capacity
in Indonesia is expanded. Two new cement plants began production in the
metropolitan Jakarta area in 1975 and are expected to reach a combined
first-stage annual capacity of one million tons by 1977. Subsequent
expansion is expected to raise this gradually to 2.2 million tons by 1985.
Other plants on Java are expected to supply two million tons by 1981 and
plants in Sumatera and South Sulawesi a further 2.4 million tons by 1981.
By 1982 demand is expected to outstrip domestic production and imports
through Tanjung Priok will begin to increase again. The forecast reflects
not only these changes in the level of imports but also domestic movements
of cement from other islands to the Jakarta area in the period from 1978-81
when the other islands will have surplus cement production.
13.       The fodder which is exported through Tanjung Priok is a by-
product of a mill, located on the east side of the port, which processes
wheat imports. Both the wheat imports and the fodder, which is in the
form of bran pellets, are handled over the mill's own wharf which is
adequate to handle expected shipments over the forecast period. On
the basis of forecast wheat shipments the production of bran pellets
might be as high as 235,000 tons in 1985. However, current experience
seems to indicate some difficulty in achieving this full potential and
the forecast assumes that exports will be limited to 50,000 tons p.a.
over the period 1977-85.
Petroleum Products
14.       Petroleum products will continue, throughout the forecast period,
to be handled over specialized berths in the oil basin. It is assumed that
improvements to existing piping and tankage arrangements by Pertamina will
result in significant increase in the present very low handling rates and
excessive tanker turnaround times and, therefore, that the present berths
will be adequate to handle the forecast traffic to 1985. If this assumption
is not met, an additional berth will be required and this will either be
built in the oil basin, or all the oil berths will be moved to a location
outside the breakwater, in order to make room for further expansion of the
general cargo berths. Since petroleum products are not unloaded at any of
the general cargo berths, the berthing capacity required for general cargo
will be unaffected whatever the outcome.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
15.       It is expected that, starting in 1976, petroleum products for
the Regencies of Bogor and Bandung will be supplied by a pipeline from a
refinery at Cilacap instead of through Tanjung Priok. This will reduce
shipments through the port, as compared with what they would otherwise
have been, by an estimated 100,000 tons in 1976; increasing to one
million tons in 1985.
16.       The hinterland of Tanjung Priok is expected to shrink further
as a result of the development of large industrial complexes for steel,
fertilizer and cement in the Serang and Cirebon Regencies. The fore-
cast assumes that the substantial volumes of petroleum products to be
consumed by these complexes will be delivered through the ports of Merak
and Cirebon, instead of Tanjung Priok.
September 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Details of Modification Required in the Accounting System
Accounting Procedures
1.        A technical assistance agreement between the Government and the
ADB dated April 7, 1972, provided for "streamlining the financial aspect
of the operations of major seaports, including Tanjung Priok, in Indonesia".
It was executed in 1973 and 1974 by financial management, accounting and
tariff experts. The resulting accounting procedures recommended to replace
those in use covered:
(a) general ledger revenue accounting;
(b) general ledger budget centers, or functional
departmental accounts;
(c)  accounting for expenses by types, such as:
(i) wages and salaries;
(ii) materials and supplies;
(iii) general expenses;
(iv) sundry expenses, including depreciation; and
(d) a detailed classification of accounts for recording of
expenditures by cost centers.
Items (a) and (d) have been implemented, but a statement of the results
based on (b) was not available, and that of expenses in accordance with
(c) was available only for the year. The original port system of accounting
is still in operation, but with many sound procedural changes recommended
by the ADB-financed experts. However, the two systems of accounting
employ substantially different valuation figures in their property and
depreciation accounts (para 6.05) and consequently produce substantially
different results. A determination of the asset values to be used and
revision of the accounting system to produce one set of correct accounts
is necessary.
2.        The ADB experts' recommended revised accounting procedures are,
in the main, satisfactory except for the use of the detailed classifica-
tion of accounts to assign expenses to the revenue centers, as a basis of
cost finding. This procedure is complicated and needs to be changed.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Costing
3.        A large portion of the total cost of cargo handling stems from
the services performed by the operating companies (para 3.13) at rates
approved by the Government. Total costs of the cargo handling function
also include those incurred by BPP for staff and services as well as for
providing and maintaining all port facilities used in the cargo handling
function. Charges should be reasonably related to these costs and BPP
and the Government should know what they are. However, the costing pro-
cedures recommended by the ADB's technical assistance team do not provide
this information and should be appropriately amended.
4.        Provision is made in the proposed project for consultancy ser-
vices to fully implement the accounting changes referred to in para 6.02
and to design and implement cost finding procedures which will provide
full cost information to management and serve as the basis for cost-
related charges for all services, including all phases of cargo handling.
Depreciation
5.        The report of the technical assistance expert provided by ADB
states in part;
"Provision has also been made in the balance sheet for
the recording of a capital assets replacement reserve.
Initially, this account would be credited with the amount
of increase in the value of capital assets as a result of
the revaluation undertaken recently. Thereafter, this
account will be credited mainly with the additional depre-
ciation that would have to be provided on the replacement
costs of the assets, by way of appropriation from the sur-
plus, the depreciation on historical costs only being pro-
vided as a charge in the revenue account".
Naming the revaluation reserve (an unrealized surplus account) a "capital
assets replacement reserve" provides nothing for replacements. Increasing
the amounts in this account, however labelled, would add no cash for re-
placements either; and the procedure would distort the earnings statement.
The full depreciation based on the replacement costs or values shown on
the balance sheet should be charged to operating expenses.
6.        Establishing a provision for income taxes on the basis of full
obligations (regardless of payments made) and accounting for payments
over several years, as a reduction of amounts owed in Government account
current liabilities, fails to disclose the actual position at a given
time. The net unpaid obligation should be shown as a liability. The
accounting consultant should recommend appropriate detailed changes in
accounting procedures.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
7.        The classification and coding of expenditure in the cost center
ledger includes an account for every tug, 9 accounts for quay berths, 7
accounts for buoy berths, an account for each of 8 pilot boats, for each
of 6 water barges, 4 for fresh water pipes by location, an account for
each of 4 mobile cranes, 31 portal cranes, 4 floating cranes, 9 kinds of
forklift trucks, 35 transit sheds, 3 passenger stations, 5 "other sheds
or structures", 27 warehouses or second line sheds - all of which require
for listing some 15 pages of the report. These details are not required
for day-to-day accounting, nor for periodic cost finding and the coding
should be simplified to reflect the costing requirements.
8.        Current assets and current liabilities appear to contain items
which do not qualify under the accepted definitions of such account
groupings. Many items are old and have been carried for years as "current"
assets or liabilities. Items for inclusion in these categories should be
reviewed by the accounting consultant.
9.        Long-term debt accounts need to be established, together with the
procedure for debt service interest and repayments.
10        The revaluation data require classification for separation of
values related to functional parts of the port.
11.       The estimated future life of many old assets still in use require
review based on technical appraisal together with a revision of depreciation
rates for the future.
September 1976



ANNEX 9
Page I
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Outline of Cost Finding Procedures Proposed
Costing procedures should be so designed as to be capable of
being used at any port in Indonesia large or small. They therefore should
be:
1.   Uniform for all ports; that is, they should provide
cost centers related to all the usual port functions
that might be encountered at any port in Indonesia,
large or small.
2.   Flexible and therefore capable of expansion and con-
traction to meet the needs of any particular port
large or small depending on the functions performed
at the port, by its own staff or by others under
contract to the port.
3.   Objective and therefore without reference to or con-
sideration of present tariffs, kinds or levels of
rates and without reference to ability to pay, value
of the service, promotional or other rate making poli-
cies or any demand factors affecting the levels of rates.
(Costing procedures and the cost centers would not vary
even if there were no tariff and all services were
provided free).
4.   Many costs can be assigned directly to the activities for
which they are incurred. In other cases the costs may be
reasonably apportioned on the basis of the beneficial
use theory whereby the beneficiary or user of a function
is charged objectively with the proportion of the total
costs of that function according to the degree of use,
if this is necessary.
5.   Cost finding should be done periodically, not continuously,
based on the uses made of all facilities over the period
to be costed, as reflected by special statistics maintained
for the purpose. It must be carried out separately from
the continuous day-to-day accounting procedures, by an
independent section.
September 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Recommended Changes in the Tariff Structure
The following changes in tariff structure are recommended:
1.   Harbor Dues
The unit of measurement could be modified from vessel cubic
meters to gross registered tons, which is a recognized and
recorded measure of vessel size. A single charge without
reference to time should be used for each entry/departure
combined. The time spent in port is a factor better covered
by the berthing-mooring charges.
2.   Berthing Dues
The 50% increase in berthing charges applicable after 4 days
should be eliminated. It is not effective for its asserted
purpose of hastening loading and unloading and therefore
ships departure; this time distinction is seldom the decid-
ing factor in the duration of berth occupancy. A simple
charge per day is more appropriate. Clarity and simplicity
suggests the use of gross registered tons per day or frac-
tion, rather than meters of ship length per day.
3.   Wharfage
A single charge per ton of dry bulk, liquid bulk 1/ and
general cargo, should be made for the use of port facilities
in its passage over or through the port, exclusive of cargo
handling. This should include both direct loaded/unloaded
cargo and cargo coming to rest in shed or open areas.
Wharfage charges per head of livestock, as at present,
should be retained.
1/   Other convenient measure may be used.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.   Storage
The present tariff for storage encourages the use of
transit sheds for long-term storage and contributes to
congested sheds and reduced port throughput. Throughout
1975 about 450,000 tons of dry cargo were being held, and
for the first six months of 1974, storage revenues totalled
40% of total operating revenues, further increasing to 62%
during the first six months of 1975. The tariff clearly
requires modification to induce more rapid clearance of
cargo from transit sheds by introduction of a significant
penalty factor, after a reasonable 5-day free time period,
which would be progressive with time during the first 15
days, and with more substantial increases for each day from
the sixteenth to the thirtieth. The tariff for warehouses
should be reviewed and if necessary, amended, to include
rates for long-term warehousing at lower charges than
those for transit sheds.
September 1976



ANNEX 11
Page I
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Explanatory Notes on Balance Sheet Data
for March 31, 1973; December 31, 1973; and December 31, 1974
(Table 15)
Current Assets
1.        Cash.  This is cash on hand and in banks, with separate balances
maintained for local and foreign currencies.
2.        Accounts Receivable.  Consists of separate accounts receivable
(rupiah accounts) and accounts receivable (dollar accounts); a reserve
for doubtful accounts is recorded.
3.        Loans and Advances:
(a) advances made to staff and others;
(b) advances made to Departments of the Port prior
to receipt of supporting vouchers and statements;
(c) loans and advances to other ports;
(d) other transactions with small ports;
(e) current account with the subsidiary terminal unit;
(f) current account with the lighterage section; and
(g) current account with the employees' co-op societies.
Liabilities
1.   Current Liabilities
Salaries and wages payable. The balance normally
represents salaries and wages earned but not paid
before the end of the year.
Accrued expenses. The balance represents expenses
incurred but not paid before the end of the year.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Miscellaneous creditors. This account includes (a)
sales taxes, (b) staff income tax, and (c) tax deducted
or recovered from bills of suppliers and contractors,
and other items collected for and to be remitted to
the Government. This account includes advance
payments made by the Directorate of Ports and Dredg-
ing in DGSC.
Deposits and advances. This account consists of:
(a) revenue/advances deposit account-foreign currency;
which represent advances of foreign currency
collected from shipping companies which are
adjusted when bills are paid;
(b) compulsory deposit account. These are amounts
deducted from staff salaries and owed or as yet
not remitted to the Government;
(c) security/earnest money deposit account collected
from lessees of land and buildings only;
(d) revenue advance deposit account includes money
collected from shipping companies and third
parties; advances in respect of lighterage are
included;
(e) accounts with other ports;
(f) contributions to official staff association
deducted from staff salaries but still unpaid; and
(g) deposits for supplies or services received from
other ports or third parties; tax payable by the
port on supplies and services received, and
usually recovered from the suppliers/contractors
bills. Balance represents amount due the
Government.
Account with the Government Treasury. This represents
the credit balance in the port's general account with
the Government, except for the deposit of working capital.
2.   Provision for Income Taxes.  This account shows the aggregate
amounts payable for income taxes over the years, (45% of net
income). It has not been reduced for payments made, as it
should be. At present, monthly payments or installments are
made on the basis of 2% of monthly gross revenues.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
3.   Pension Fund and Compensation Payments, and Contribution for
Pension. The former of these combined accounts represents
the accumulated sum of the required payments (10% of surplus
(net income) after taxes). Paid amounts, if any, are credited
to the account with the Government Treasury Department. The
second part of this balance sheet heading represents the lia-
bility of the port for its contributions to pension payments.
4.   Revenue Reserves.  These "revenue" reserves consist of the
following and include for some reason item (d) referred to
below:
(a)  Bonus Reserve, represents 5% of net income accumulated
over the years - for disbursement of bonus to employees.
(b)  Social Welfare Reserve, represents the accumulated amount
over the years made up of 10% of the surplus (net income)
after taxes, supposedly to be employed for the social
benefits and welfare payments for staff.
(c)  General Reserve represents the accumulated balances of
yearly calculations at 20% of surplus (or net income)
after taxes.
(d)  General Development Reserve as made up of the aggregate
amounts due to the Government for the development of
Indonesia; the yearly amounts due are 55% of surplus
after taxes (30.25% of net income). It represents
the historical liability of the port without regard
to payments made which presumably are credited to the
account with the Government Treasury.
5.   Capital Reserve, generally represents the cost of capital assets
defrayed from the port's own resources.
6.   Capital-Initial is the amount of capital provided by the Government,
in the first instance.
7.   Revaluation Reserves represents the increase in value of capital
assets as a result of the 1973 revaluations.  Since the fixed assets
include land and capital dredging, so does the revaluation, in
Table 17.
September 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
I. Income Accounts
The estimated revenues, expenses and net income provided in
Table 14 are based on the following estimates and assumptions:
(i) the investment program and project data set forth
in Table 2 for 1976-83;
(ii)  increase of expenses, excluding depreciation based upon
12% annual inflation in 1977, 1978, and 1979 and 10% p.a.
thereafter. Overall increase in tariffs of 10% on Septem-
ber 1, 1979 and 20% on September 1, 1980;
(iii)  modification, as of January 1, 1979, of the rates
and charges for storage as recommended by consultants,
following (a) reorganization of the port, (b) deter-
mination of the costs of each function by consultants
and (c) the establishment of a cost-based tariff.
It has also been assumed that the practice of paying
10 to 20% of storage charges to cargo-handling com-
panies will be found to be inappropriate as a result
of the costing procedures herein recommended. To
be conservative, no concession fees have been in-
cluded in port revenues;
(iv)  annual maintenance costs of structures, lands and roads
subsequent to 1976 have been estimated on the basis of
3% of the gross depreciable value of old assets in use
(estimated at Rp 15 billion) plus 1-1/2% of the gross
depreciable value of newer assets being the balance in
use as per the previous December 31 balance sheet values;
(v)  depreciation expense for additions of depreciable
assets during the period 1976-82 has been estimated
on the basis of an average life of 20 years or 5% p.a.;
(vi)  forecast revenues are related to the traffic
forecasts for each year in respect of:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(a) number of vessels;
(b)  total m  of vessels (when the tariff is revised to
gross registered tons as previously recommended, cash
produced is not expected to vary significantly);
(c) average length of stay in port and on berth
separately indicated for the deep-sea harbor
and Regional harbor in respect of general ,
cargo; and separately for wheat, fertilizer,
fodder, cement, vegetable oils and petroleum
products; and
(d) container revenues have been estimated at the
equivalent of US$50 for each container handled,
loaded and empty.
(vii) forecast expenses have been related to traffic in
various ways as follows:
(a) towage, mooring and berthing, pilotage, dry-
dock expense, salvage operations, operation
and maintenance of barges and tugs, electricity
and general facilities expense have been related
to the numbers of vessels each year;
(b) water supplv has been estimated based on the
projected m or tons of water related to ves-
sel sizes;
(c) operation of cargo equipment, expenses of the
terminal unit and the maintenance of land,
roads and structures have been projected on
the basis of future dry cargo traffic; and
(d) no change has been assumed for costs of fire brigade,
dredging, and storage.
II. Balance Sheet Data
The estimated balance sheet data shown in Table 17 are based on
the following principal assumptions that:
(i) the port will be established as part of a Perum, (para 3.04)
as of June 30, 1978;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(ii) the long-term debt for development of the port including
the ADB loan of 1972, the proposed IBRD loan in 1976 and
a second phase loan (Table 2) will be made available
by the Government to the port at 12% interest p.a. and
otherwise on the same terms as these loans to the Govern-
ment; and
(iii) additional funds will be obtained amounting to Rp 17,297
million during the 1976-1982 period either by local loans
or government equity grants. The latter method has been
assumed for purposes of the financing plan (para 6.18).
III. Cash Flow Data
The estimated cash flow data in Table 17 are based on the following
principal assumptions that:
(i) obligations of BPP to the Government consisting of unpaid
taxes and contributions to the NDF, as well as the revalua-
tion tax will be paid by BPP to the Government in four equal
installments in 1977 through 1980;
(ii) the funds owed to BPP by the Government and its agencies
(including state enterprises) for past port services would
be made available to BPP in equal amounts during the fis-
cal years 1977 and 1978; and
(iii) that Government equity payments (Para II (iii)) will be
sufficient each year to provide BPP with cash working
capital equal to about 12 1/2% of annual working expenses.
September 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Plan of Action for BPP
1.        Organizational Policy for BPP.  BPP shall have exclusive respon-
sibility for the management and operation of its assets (including procure-
ment), for the selection of its officers and staff within the approved estab-
lishment level, for the planning and implementation of its future development,
subject only to a reasonable degree of supervision by or on behalf of the
Borrower or the Perum and approval by the Borrower of BPP's annual budgets.
BPP shall have timely access to sufficient liquid funds to carry out its
day-to-day operations and its development programs.
2.        BPP's Organization and Port Operating Procedures.  The Borrower
shall take and cause BPP to take the following measures which are designed
to improve the efficiency of BPP's organization and the operating procedures
in Tanjung Priok port:
(a) The Port Administrator, shall be given authority to dispose
of scrap material in the port by auction, subject only to
the approval of the MOC of the Borrower which shall not be
unreasonably withheld;
(b) BPP's operational and maintenance departments shall be re-
structured in line with the regrouping of the port's opera-
ting companies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2 (d) (iii) of this Annex, and the section heads in those
departments shall be given greater day-to-day decision-making
authority, including the procurement and storage of spare
parts, all within the framework of established policies and
budgets;
(c) BPP's planning and project bureau shall be separated from
BPP's maintenance department and be established and maintained
as a new department of BPP, with adequate qualified staff;
(d) The port's operating procedures shall be improved as follows:
(i) the port shall be divided into operational areas for
cargo-handling operations, as may be agreed between
the Borrower, Bank and the BPP, each such area to
include the transit sheds and warehouses serving the
berths within its limits and to be enclosed by a
Customs fence with control gate; each such area shall
be a separate Customs area;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(ii) within each such area unrestricted movement between transit
sheds and warehouses shall be permitted for all cargo
remaining in the sheds beyond the free period, subject
only to notification to (not permission of) Customs;
(iii) the allocation of sheds to operating companies on
each pier shall be rearranged so that sheds allo-
cated to one comany shall, to the extent possible,
be adjacent. Such rearrangement shall be completed
within two years from the Effective Date, except as
may be agreed between the Bank and BPP. The amal-
gamation of operating companies being arranged in
the Nusantara basin area shall, if successful, be
applied as speedily as possible to the remaining areas
of the Priok Port;
(iv) the warehouses situated in the Perahu basin shall be
designated as separate storage areas for the long-term
storage of such goods as BPP shall determine; movement
of goods to such warehouses shall be done by forward-
ing companies after obtaining permission of Customs;
(v)  delivery of goods from any area to the consignee shall
be made by the forwarding company of the consignee's
choice, following Customs clearance;
(vi) in licensing the operating companies or newly formed
associations of operating companies, BPP shall require
them to improve their productivity by increase use of
mechanical equipment after palletization of cargo in
the ships' hold, on the quay, in the transit sheds
or open storage areas and in subsequent transfer to
the warehouse. The Borrower shall take all action
necessary to achieve the introduction of the measures
and policies described in this sub-paragraph (d) ex-
cept sub-paragraph d (iii) not later than June 30, 1978,
or such later date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Bank; and
(e)  The Borrower shall cause BPP to implement within 24 months
immediately following the Effective Date, or such longer
period of time as the Bank may agree, those recommendations
made by the team of specialists from the port of Amsterdam,
included in that team's fifth progress report dated April
16, 1975, which are acceptable to the Borrower.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
3.        Customs Procedures.  Upon completion of the study of existing Cus-
toms procedures in Tanjung Priok port, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a
copy of the study and shall, after having exchanged views with the Bank on the
study, implement such recommendations emanating from the study as shall be
necessary for the improvement of such Customs procedures as shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank.
4.        Accounting and Costing
(a)  The Borrower shall cause BPP to further improve its
accounting system, inter alia: by establishing general
ledger budget centers, or functional departmental accounts;
by accounting for expenses by types of expenses; by con-
solidating its asset valuation methods and depreciation
accounts to exclude inconsistencies; and by discontinuing
the use of the detailed classification of accounts to assign
expenses to revenue centers, as a basis for cost finding.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BPP to introduce a costing system,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall be
in accordance with the following principles:
(i) the costing system shall be objective and therefore
without reference to or consideration of present
tariffs, kinds or levels of rates and without refer-
ence to ability to pay, value of the service, pro-
motional or other rate making policies or any demand
factors affecting the levels of rates;
(ii) the costing system shall be reasonably apportioned
on the basis of the beneficial use theory whereby
the beneficiary or user of a function is charged
objectively with the proportion of the total costs
of that function according to the degree of use.
Many costs can be assigned directly to the activi-
ties for which they are incurred;
(iii) cost findings should be done periodically, not con-
tinuously, based on the uses made of all facilities
over the period to be costed, as reflected by spe-
cial statistics maintained for the purpose. It must
be carried out separately from the continuous day-to-day
accounting procedures, by an independent section; and
(iv) the costing system shall be comprehensive and shall
include, inter alia, the determination of the costs
incurred in cargo handling.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
5.        Strengthening of Financial Accounting Staff.  The Borrower shall
cause BPP to strengthen its financial accounting staff in a manner satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, based on the recommendations to be
made by BPP's accounting consultants.
September 1976



TABLE I
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
List of Operating Companies and Sheds Allocated
Company                       Shed Number and Location
No.    Nusantara      Basin I          Basin II            Basin III        Operating Company
1     - 001                                                              P.T. Abadi Lines
2     - 002                                                              P.T. Nagah Berlian
3     - 003                                                              P.T. Pelpn.
4     - 004 U                                                            P.T. Kalimantan
5     - 005 S                                                            P.T. I.O.L.
6                    - 101                                               P.T. Tanjung Lines
7                    - 102                                               P.T. Pelni
103                                               II     of
104                                               it
105
106                                                     it
8                    - 109       -202 U                                  P.T. Wasesa Lines
9                    - 110                                               Team Management 110 (INSA)
10                    - ill                                               P.T. Sriwijaya Lines
11                    - 112 U                                             P.T. Bahari Lines
12                    - 112 S                                             P.T. Admiral Lines
13                    - G.G.                                              P.N. Garam
14                                - 201 U, 203 U
204, 207                            Unit Usaha Terminal BPP
15                                - 201 S                                 P.T. Karana Lines
16                                - 202 S, 212                            P.T. Bahtera Adhiguna
17                                - 203 S           - 305, 306, 307       P.T. Trikora Lloyd
18                                - 205, 206        - 304, 305            P.T. Jakaeta Lloyd
19                                - 208, 209                              P.T. Gesuri Lloyd
20                                - 210                                   P.T. Samudera Jaya Lines
21                                - 211             - 310 U               P.T. Arafat Lines
22                                                  - 301 S, 302, 303   P.T. Samudera Indonesia
1/  Where the shed is referred to as "U" or "S" the occupancy of the shed
is divided between two companies.
Source:   BBP
February 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Capital Investment Program 1976-83
(Rp millions)
Expenditure                                                                         1976-1983
Prior to 1976   1976      1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983         Total
ADB-financed Project              3,035        1,250     415      -       -       -        -       -        -        1,665
Phase I Project                   3,100        5,115  11,720  10,510   2,470      -        -       -        -       29,815
Phase II Project                    -            -       -        -     5,100  10,000  12,900  11,000  10,700       49,800
Minor Construction                1,195          770     420      560     415      415     415     415      415      3.825
TOTAL                             7,330        7,135  12,555  11,070   7,985  10,415  13,315  11,415  11,115        85,105
Source: Bank Staff
August 1976
to



TABLE 3
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOR PORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Item                                              Rupiah Million                             us$'000
Local    Foreign    Total              Local      Foreign      Total
A. Civil Works
Basin III                                         1,650      1,3149     3,009             4,000       3,250       7,250
Regional Harbor                                   1.514      1,453      2,967            3,650        3,500       7,150
Road Access Improvements                            664        622      1,286             i,600       1,500       3,100
Housing Site Services                               207        207        414               500         500       1,000
Sub-Total                                         4,045      3,631      7,676            9,750       8,750      18,500
B.  Mechanical Equipment
Container Cranes                                     33      1,627      1,660                80      3,920       4,000
Mobile Container Handling Equipment                  16      1,104      1,120                40      2,660        2,700
General Cargo Handling Equipment                      -        938        938                         2_6         2,260
Sub-Total                                            49      3,669      3,718               120      8,840       8,960
Weighbridge                                           4        124        128                10         300         310
Training School Equipment                            12        120        132                30         290         320
Sub-Total                                            16        244        260                40         590         630
C. Technical Assistance & Training
Accountancy                                          14        150        164                37         360         397
Labor                                                37        222        259               8f9         535         624
Management and Planning                              51        155        206               124         375         499
Steel Mill                                            9         95        104                20         230         250
Sub-Total                                           111        622        733              270       1,500       1,770
D.  Engineering Consultants and Services                  332        976      1,308              800       2,350       3,150
Base Cost Estimate                                4,557      9,142    13,699            10,980      22,030       33,010
Physical Contingencies                              801      1,108      1,909            1,930       2,670       4,600
Price Contingencies a                                        3,030                       3500    '10,800
Sub-total Bank-Financed Items                     6,810    13,280    20,090             16,410      32,000      48,410
E.  Government-Financed Works
Basin III Construction                             5,245      3,960      9,205           12,640       9,550      22,190
Lease Acquisition and Compensation                   830        -          830            2,000          -        2,000
Housing Land Acquisition and Housing Const.        2,500        -        2,500            6,000          -        6,000
Sales Tax                                            290        -          290               700        -           700
PROJECT TOTAL                                     15,675    17,240    32,915             37,750      41,550      79,300
Source: Bank Staff
August 1976



TABLE 4
IDONESIA
APPRAISAL CF TANJUNG PRICK PORT PROJECT
Contracts for Execution od Bank-F1jmced Project Works
Civil Works
Le   Back-up facilities for general cargo, combination and container berths
under construction by Government in Basin III.
II. Berths and back-up facilities in Regional Harbor (Perahu Basin).
III. Improvements to external road access and entrance gates to the port and
to access roads bn piers between Basins I and II and Basins II and III1
TV. Housing services.
Mechanical Eauipment Procurement
I.   Container 6ranes
II. Mobile container handling equipment
III. Mechanical general cargo handling equipment and equipment required
for the training schools.
Source: Bank Staff
March 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Construction Schedule
1976                       1977                       1978                        1979
Container Cranes
Mobile Container Equipment                                         4                         __    __
Basin III Civil Works                                                   4
Regional Harbor Civil Works                                                          __|_*________|
General Cargo Equipment                                                                           ,
Road Access improvements                                                                          |
Technical  Assistance                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Engineering                                  ___
Contract Award           8          Container Wharf Apron available                  *  Completion                   -- disbursement overrun after contract completion
Source- Bank Staff
February 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Annual Estimated Project Expenditure
(US$ Millions)
Cost Est.  Prior to 1976         1976        1977        1978        1979
Basin III Civil Works                     13,550          -                 500      5,100       6,100       1,850
Special Tests                                 150         -                 150        -           -           -
Container Equipment                        9,020          -                 800      5,400       2,820         -
General Cargo Equipment                    3,680          -                 -        1,250       2,430         -
Regional Harbor Civil Works               12,320          -                 -        3,750       6,920       1,650
Land Access Improvement                     5,490         -                 -        1,140       3,400         950
Housing Services                           1,500           -                -           200         900        400
Technical Assistance & Training            2,700          -                 -           750        950       1,000
Sub-total Bank-Financed Project           48,410          -   1/          1,450     17,590      23,520       5,850
Government-Financed Works Basin III       22,190        7,470             9,870      4,850         -           -
Land and Lease Acquisition & Housing       8,000          -               1,000      5,500       1,500         -
Sales Tax                          Cons.      700         -                 -          300         300         100
PROJECT TOTAL COST                        79,300        7,470 1/        12,320      28,240      25,320       5,950
1/  Balance spent before 1976 - US$5.2 million in 1975 and 2.27 million in 1974.
August 1976



INDONESIA                               TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
Bank Fiscal Year         Quarter            Amount Disbursed            Cumulative Total
1977                2nd                   1,000                       1,000
3rd                   1,500                       2,500
4th                   3,300                       5,800
1978                1st                   3,500                       9,300
2nd                   3,600                      12,900
3rd                   4,500                      17,400
4th                   4,900                      22,300
1979                1st                   3,100                      25,400
2nd                   3,000                      28,400
3rd                   1,600                      30,000
4th                   1,100                      31,100
1980                1st                     500                      31,600
2nd                     400                      32,000
August 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Traffic Projections  1976 - 85
('000 metric tons)
1976-1985
Compound Annual
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985       Growth Rate (%)
GENERAL CARGO
- Imports                          2,480      2,600      2,630      2,690      2,680       2,740      2,850      3,090      3,340      3,600               3.9
- Exports                            130        140        140         140        140        140        140        140        140         140
Total Foreign General Cargo        2,610      2,740      2,770      2,830       2,820      2,880      2,990      3,230      3,480      3 740               3.8
- Inter-island inbound               530        620         730        850        990      1,140      1,280      1,450      1,630      1,830              15.0
- Inter-island outbound              460         530        610        700        800        920      .04        1,170      1.,320     1,480              14.0
Total Inter-island General Cargo  990         1,150      1,34        1.550      1.790      2,060      2,320      2.620      2,950      3,310              14.5
TOTAL GENERAL CARGO                  3,600      3,890      4,110       4,380      4,610      4,940      5,310      5,850      6.430       7.050              7.5
HOMOGENEOUS DRY CARGO
- Wheat                              440         480        520        570        620        670        730        800         870        950
- Fertilizer                         400         400        400        350        300        300        300         300        300        300
- Cement                             900         650        350        300        250        320        420         550        650        800
- Fodder exports                       20         50         50         50         50         50          50         50         50         50
TOTAL HOMOGENEOUS DRY CARGO          7 760       1.580      1.320      1.270      1,220      1.340      1.500       1,700      1.870      2.100
TOTAL DRY CARGO                      5,360       5,470      5,30       5,650      5.830      6.280      6,810      7,550       8.300      9.150
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS                   3,400       3,550      3,775      4,000      4,250      4,550      4,850      5.200       5,575      6.000
VEGETABLE OILS                           80        100        130        140        150         150        160        160        170        180
Sources:  Swan Wooster
Bank Staff
March 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Port Traffic 1970 - 75
('000 metric tons)
1970-1975
1975            Compound Annual
1970           1971           1972            1973           1974            (Est)            Growth Rate (%)
GENERAL CARGO
- Imports (1)                           1,845           1,835          2,135           3,028          2,603           2,456                    5.9
- Exports                                  215            197             217            134             148            122
Total Foreign General Cargo             2,060           2,032          2,352           3,162          2,751           2,578                    4.6
- Inter-island Inbound                    201             218            269             296            360             453                  17.7
- Inter-island Outbound                    197            205             278            434            441             400                   15.2
Total Inter-island General Cargo           398            423             547            730             801            853                   16.5
TOTAL GENERAL CARGO                        2.458          2.455           2.899          3,892           3,552          3,431                    6.9
HOMOGENEOUS DRY CARGO
- Wheat, wheat flour                       181            134              84            294             280            410
- Fertilizer                                52             45            164             175            422             400
- Cement                                  293             529             675            965          1,173           1,100
- Fodder exports                             4              -              19             33               8              4
Total Homogeneous Dry Cargo                530            708             942          1,467188                       1 914
TOTAL DRY CARGO                            2,988          3,163           3,841          5,359           5,435          5,345
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS                         1,923          1,908           2,308          2,460           2,955          3,320
VEGETABLE OILS                                 2              6              30             34              59              65
Notes: 1. Includes:
(a)  Rice                      484             210            291             741            403             360
(b)  Construction Steel        n/a             n/a            200             400            600             500
(c)  Other (incl. con-       1,361           1,625          1,644           1,887          1,600           1,596
tainerized cargo)
Sources: Tanjung Priok Port
Swan-Wooster
March 1976



TABLE 10
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF.TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits ($'000)
Economic Benefits
Year         Economic Costs          Ship-Waiting       Labor         Total
Time          Cost
1974              1,600
1975             3,900
1976              8,800
1977             18,500
1978            21,000
1979              6,000                  2,500           100          2,600
1980                                     3,000           200          3,200
1981                                     6,000           100          6,100
1982                                     14,000          200         16,000
1983                                    20,000           100         20,100
1984                                    20,000           200         20,200
1985                                    20,000           100         20,100
1986                                    20,000           200         20,200
1987                                     20,000          100         20,100
1988                                    20,000           200         20,200
1989                                     20,000          100         20,100
1990                                    20,000           200         20,200
1991                                    20,000           100         20,100
1992                                     20,000          200         20,200
1993                                     20,000           100        20,100
1994                                    20,000           200         20,200
1995                                     20,000           100        20,100
1996                                     20,000          200         20,200
1997                                     20,000           100        20,100
1998                                     20,000           200        20,200
Total Economic Costs                                   59,800
Items omitted: Price Contingencies                     10,800
Lease Acquisition etc. (incl.
housing construction relating
to Phase II project)                   8,000
Sales Tax                                 700
Total Project Cost                                     79,300
Source: Bank Staff
October 1976



TABLE 11
INDONESTA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PRO3ECT
Summary of Principal Port Tariffs
Present Tariff
Effective July 1974
Tariff Item                                   Unit                     Rp.          US$
I.  Harbor Dues
(a)  Merchant ships-tankers       1,000 m3 per day               2,400         5.78
(b)  Self propelled barges                                         800         2.00
(c)  Non commercial calls               "                          600         1.45
(d)  For repairs only                                              240         0.58
(e)  Operating harbor area only
Vessels                                                     48         0.12
Barges                                                      16         0.04
II. Berthing-Mooring Charges
A.  First four days             Meters of length per day
(i)  Concrete wharf                 "                          442         1.07
(ii)  Iron-wood wharf                "                          306         0.74
(iii)  Coastal                        "                           75         0.18
(iv)  Mooring at buoys      Vessel/day                          221         0.54
B. After four days
(i)  Concrete wharf        Meters of length per day            663         1.61
(ii)  Iron-wood wharf                                           459         1.11
(iii)  Coastal                                                   112.5       0.27
(iv)  Mooring at buoys      Vessel/day                          221         0.54
III. Wharfage
A. Rice, wheat, corn,
bulgur, sugar, salt
and fertilizer             Per meter ton                      14
B. Commodities,other than
in A                     Metric ton/or m3                  30/20
C. Livestock
Horses, cattle, etc.    Per head                              30
Goats, swine, sheep,
etc.                       "                                15
D. Pipeline-liquid bulk
cargo                    Per 1,000 liters
(i) Light cargo
Refined petroleum
products
Coconut, peanut and
palm oil                                                 13
(ii)  Heavy cargo
Crude oil, latex,
Molasses, etc.                 "                            8



TA L11
Page 2
Present Tariff
Effective July 1974
Tariff Item                                    Unit                   Rp.          US$
IV.  Water Supply to vessels       Per m3 or metric ton
A. Official working hours
(i)  By wharf pipeline   Min. 10 tons                         330       0.795
(ii)  By water barge        "   50 tons                        500        1.205
B. After office hours
(i)  By wharf pipeline    "   10 tons                         495       1.1192
(ii)  By water barge        "   50 tons                        750       1.807
First 15     After 15
days          days
Rp.           Rp.
V.  Storage                        Whichever higher
A. First line
(i)  Transit sheds        Metric ton or                       100          200
m3 per day                     70          140
(ii)  Open areas           Metric ton or                        50          100
m3 per day                     35           70
B. Second line
(i)  Warehouses           Metric ton or                        50          100
m3 per day                     35           70
(ii)  Open areas           Metric ton or                        25           50
m3 per day                     18           36
C. Dangerous cargo
(i)  First line
(a)  Transit sheds  Metric ton or                       120          240
m3 per day                     84          168
(b)  Open areas     Metric ton or                        60          120
m3 per day                     42           84
(ii)  Second line
(a)  Warehouses      Metric ton or                       60          120
m3 per day                     42           84
(b)  Open areas     Metric ton or                        30           60
m3 per day                     21.6         43.2
VI. Land Rental
(For industrial/commercial          2
buildings)                   Per m  per year
A. Within 100 m of
deep water                                           1,000
B.  Within 100 m of
shallow water                "                         800
C.  Central area                                              600
D.  Submerged land                 "                          100



TABLE 11
Page 3
Present Tariff
Rp.                    US$
Regular                Regular
Tariff Item                             Unit          hours    Overtime    hours   Overtime
VII. Equipment Rentals
A. Derrick/Cranes
1. Land:  Mobile          Per hour
up to 3 tons capac.       "              1,700       2,550        4.10     6.15
3 to 7 tons    "                         3,895       5,842.5    9.40    14.10
7 to 15 tons   "          "              5,666       8,499      13.65    20.48
over 15 tons   "          "              8,500      12,750      20.50    30.75
2. Electric cranes
up to 3 ton capac.   Per hour            2,405       3,607.5    5.80       8.70
3 to 7 tons   "           "              4,250       6,375      10.25    13.375
Over 7 tons   "           "              6,018       9,027      14.50    21.75
3. Floating cranes
(including tug)
up to 10 tons         Per hour           6,370       9,555      15.35    23.03
11 to 15 tons             "             12,750      19,125      30.75    46.13
16 to 30 tons                           29,300      43,950      70.60   105.90
31 to 40 tons                           36,900      55,350      88.90   133.35
41 to 75 tons             "             85,000    127,500    204.80   307.20
76 to 200 tons                         127.560    191,340    307.40   461.10
B. Vessels
1. Fire vessel brigade  Per hour           25,000      37,500      60.25    90.38
2. Motor boats:
up to 60 H.P.                          8,360      12.540      20.15    30.23
60 to 200                             12,350      18,525      29.75    44.63
3. Barges                 Per ton/cargo.       200         300      0.48      0.72
C. Forklifts
Up to 2 tons            Per hour          1,700       2,550       4.10      6.15
2 to 3 tons                "              2,280       3,420       5.50      8.25
3 to 5 tons                               2,650       3,975       6.40      9.60
5 to 10 tons               "              4,630       6,945      11.20    16.80
D. Tugs
Under 60 H.P.           Per hour         10,680                  25.75
60 to 150 H.P              "             16,080                  38.75
150 to 250 H.P.            "             31,970                  77.00
250 to 500 H.P.           It             47.840                 103.25
Over 500 H.P.              "             69,325                 155.00
Source: BPP
March 1976



TABLE 12
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Fixed Asset Values
Second Revaluation of 1973
(Rp 000)
Used by Port      Annual Deprecia-      % Future Annual
since 1973       tion based on           Depreciation
remaining life
A.  Land                                    21,640,000            216,400                 1.00 1/
Roads (inside port area)                   315,416             60,846.1             19.29
Roads (outside port area)                  152,476               -                   _
Total Land and Roads               22,107,892             277,246.1              1.25
B.  Ducts and drains                           124,645             19,239.8             15.4
C.  Port/harbor and breakwater               5,695,365            493,992.2              8.67
D.  Canals bridges, sluices                    110,240             31,514.7             28.59
E.  Quays and open areas                     3,771,707            362,258.8              9.60
F. Buildings, sheds houses and fences
Permanent                            2,198,157            491,397.2              22.35
Semi-permanent                          32,489               9,883.1             30.41
G.  Vessels                                    526,772            166,541.6             31.62
H. Derricks and their rails                     84,194             13,454.3             15.98
I.  Drydocks and floating docks                  6,701              2,034.3             32.94
J.  Vehicles                                    53,432             18,890.5             35.35
K.  Water System                                58,660              7,085.7             12.08
L.  Electrical System                           97,184             10,273.5             10.57
M.  Machinery toolsand equipment                69,696             12,577.2             18.05
N. Office furniture, equipment
and fixtures                              15,742              9,677.6              61.48
Total                           34,952,377          1,926,067.1              5.51
Excluding Category A,
Totals B-N included                    12,844,485          1,648,821.0              12.84%
1/    Land is not a depreciable asset; and no depreciation shourld be recorded.
Source: BPP
March 1976



TABLE 13
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Summary of Wage Increases Since 1973
Increase in                   Minimum Rp.
Date                     Basic Wage                      Per Month
April 1, 1973                     150%                       Established
at Rp. 1750
April 1, 1974                     250%                          2,500
July 1, 1974                      350%                          7,500
January 1, 1975                   650%                         10,000
April 1, 1975                     750%                         10,000
Basic salaries are increased by the percentages and for the
reasons,shown below:
1.  5% added as a wife allowance
2.  2% added as a family allowance
3.  10% added as a cost of living allowance
4.  50 to 100% added for various educational
certificates
5.  30% added as a corporation allowance.
Source: BPP
March 1976



TABLE 14
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TAINJUNG PRIDO PORT PROJECT
Income Accounts:  Revenues, Expnses and Net Inome
Actual 1972/73-1975  Estimted 1976-1982
(Epa Millions)
Actual                                                Estimated
12 Months  Apr-Dec  12 Monthe  12 Months
1972/73    1973       1974        1975         1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Operating Revenues
Harbour Duos                                                            345        266        683         787           861     851      883     942   1,004   1,073   1,171
Piootnge                                                                 33          31       141         394           400     416      442     469      500     537      585
Toving Moo-ing                                                           96         91        286         582           564     599      638     682      729     791      855
Quay Duos                                                               265        217        683       1,429         1,425   1,395   1,421   1,457   1,483   1,535   1,631
Ded8ing8                                                                 65           -         -         444             -        -       -        -       -
Water Supply-Ships                                                      150         154       177         245           238     236      243      258     277      296     320
Bsrgo Rontal                                                              4           5         3         156           162     162      162     162      162      162     162
Cergo-handliog Equipnent                                                i11          82       153         124           129     138      143     148      152      160     168
Whorfage                                                                  -           -         -           -           178     186      193     603      613     628      644
soran-ag                                                                455         938     4,520       9,917        10,317  11,039  11,488  10,250  10,286  10,464  10,695
Truck Entry F.oo                                                        170          87       178         231           240     244      248     251      259     279      302
Torsinal Unit                                                           382        253      1,326       1,344         1,397   1,400   1,391   1,430   1,470   1,549   1,636
Land, Building Rentals                                                  268         111       712       1,051         1,384   1,384      969     969      969     959      969
Miac-Ilanoous Revenues                                                    6          73       166         181           188      197     202     212      221      238     256
Hn_dling Containers                                                                                         -                      -     519   1.176  1591   1,971   2,421
Subtotal Operating Revenu- s                                          2,350      2,300      9,028      16,885        17,483  18,247  18,942  19,009  19,716  20,652  21,815
Rovocue arising froc Tariff Adjoetnents
Asnoning equivalest of 107. overll - Sept 1, 1979                       -           -         -           -             -       -        -     633   1,972   2,065   2,181
Annuning equivalent of 207 overall - Sept 1, 1980                       -           -         -           -                 -          - --- z          446   4,543  4.800
Total Op-rating Revenues                                              2,350      2,300      9,028      16,885        17,483  18,247  18,942  19,642  23,134  27,260  28,796
Operatiog Expenses
Toge Mooring and Berthing                                                98         103       212         462           448     476      506     541      579     628      679
Pilotafg                                                                 13          21        41         117           113     128      128     137      146     158      171
Drydocking                                                               10          17        21          47            48      50       53      57       61      66       71
Water Supply-Ships                                                       90         115       239         495           630     626      644     686      732      785     857
Fire Brigade                                                             27          31        44          43            48      48       48      48       48      48       48
Salvage, Ihoder.-ter Repairs, Rescue                                      -           -         9          26            25      27       29      31       34      36       39
DrOdgi.g                                                                228         198       373         654           654     654      654     654      654     654      654
Casto Equipment                                                          47         48        114         172           171     174      171     177      182     196      214
Bar~ges and Tugs                                                          -           -        17         144           140     148      138     169      181     196      212
Cargo Move-et, Storage-Sheds Open Areas                                   8         37        239       1,329         1,329   1,329   1,329   1,329   1,329   1,329   1,329
Warehousing                                                               -           -         6         323           373     323      323     323      323     323      323
Cargo-handling Terminal Unit                                            221           -       890         395         1,257   1,260   1,252   1,287   1,323   1,394   1,472
Maint.en..e-Structure-, Lend, Roads                                      79         204       453       2,002         1,988     478      541     640      946   1,013   1,095
Electrical Facilitins                                                   109           -       230         372           361     383      408     436      467     506      547
General Facilities                                                        -           -        45          40            38      41       43      46       50      54       58
Adoinist-atio-G-.enr l Expense                                          602        419      1,353       1,703         1,703   1,873   1.910   1.948   1,987   2 027   2,068
Total Working Expenses                                                1,532      1,193      4,286       8,324         9,276   8,010   8,197   8,519  9,042   9,413   9,837
Add Assuned Inflation of 12% 1977                                         -           -         -           -             -     961      984   1,021   1,035   1,130   1,180
127. 1978                                      -           -          -          -             -        -   1,102   1,144   1,215   1,265   1,322
127, 1979                                      -           -          -          -             -        -       -   1,281   1,361   1,417   1,481
107, 1980                                      -           -          -          -             -        -       -        -   1,270   1,323   1,382
107. 1981                                      -           -          -          -             -        -       -        -       -   1,455   1,520
107 1982                                                                                                                              ___--      - -      1,672.
Adjusted Total Working Expenses                                       1,532       1,193     4,286       8,324         9,276   8,971  10,283  11,955  13,973  16,003  18,394
Deprec-itian                                                             51        695        985       1,775         1.855   2,010  2J310   2.955   3Z578   3,826  4j134
Total Operating Expenses                                              1,583      1,888      5,271      10,099       11,131  10,981  12,593  14,910  17,551  19,829  22,528
Net Operating Revenues                                                  767        412      3,757       6,786        6,352   7,266   6,349   4,732   5,583   7,431   6,268
Net Non-operating R.evenua                                              171         (46)      166         392           200     280      100      50        -        -       -
Interest Long-term Debt                                                   -           -         -           -           229     502   1,018   2,003   2,826   3,526   4,327
Net Incone before Taxes etc.                                            938         366     3,923       7,178         6.323   6,964   5,431   2,779   2,757   3,905   1,941
Isctae Tam (457,)                                                       422        165      1,765       3,230        2,8452  3,134   2,444   1,250   1,241   1,757         873
Revaluation Tax                                                           -           -         -           -         3,368-/     -        -       -        -       -        -
Net Income after T.eno                                                  516         201     2,158       3,948           110   3,830   2,987   1,529   1,516   2,148   1,069
Cantribution  to Nation-l Develop.not Fund (30.257,)                    284         111     1,187       2,171        1,913   2,107   1,643       841      834   1,181      587
Ntt InTono (Ltos)                                                       232          90       971       1,777        (1,803)  1,723   1,344      688      682      967     481
Retina   Dperating                                                       67         82         58          60            64      60       66      76       76      73       78
Tines Interest Eamed (Operations)                               -           -          -          -            27.7    14.5      6.2      2.3     2.0      2.1      1.5
Return on Net Operating Revenues                               61.9         1.6       11.1       19.8          18.3    20.2    16.2       9.4     9.4    12.2    10.0
Return after T.s  3/                                           27.8         1.0        5.9       10.4          10.1      9.1     7.8      5.3     5.8      9.3     8.7
I/ Total revenue under this heading assumed to reduce is 1979 onuards by sot Rps 1.2 billion folloving
(a) 507b reduction in volsee of goods stored in transit areas;
(b) introduction of storage penalty retes;
(ol im-ease in ucrehoasing eativities; and
(d) retention by BPP of a11 storage related revenues.
2/ Payable in equal instalments during 1977-80.
3/ Including Rps 3,368 nillion ss.et rev alution tam payable in four equal instalments of Rps 842 million 1977-81.
Source   BPP and Bank Staff
September 19F6



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNC PRIOR PORT PROJECT
Actual Balance Sheet Data 1972/73 - 1975
(Rps Millions)
A c t ua
Mar 31         Dec 31          Dec 31         Dec 31
A s s     e t                                                      1973            1974           1974            1975
Current Assets
Cash on hand and in bank                                                      68.9          601.3         1,946.2         2,707.4
sundry debtors                                                             1,464.9        1,372.1         2,409.7        6,004.4
Loans and advances                                                           575.6          779.7         1,987.2        2,556.1
Stores                                                                       109.7          123.8           274.0           670.0
Miscellaneous accounts                                                               -            -         -               743.8
Total current assets                                                       2,219.1        2,876.9         6,617.1       72,681.7
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets in operation                                            1,326.1       35,544.9        37,564.9       40,001.0
Less accumulated depreciation                                                 86.5        1,932.2         3,629.9        5 330.6
Net fixed assets in operation                                             4129.0         33,6.5          33,935.0
Works in progress                                                             49.0            89.5        1,093.6        4708.5
Total fixed assets                                                         1,288.6       33,702.2        35,028.6       39,378.9
Loss - April-December 1973                                               _                  323.0           323.0
Total Assets                                                                 3,507.7        36,902.1       41,968.7        52,060.6
L i a b i I i L I e s
Current Liabilities
Salaries and wages payable                                                   _                 0.9            1.7             2.7
Accrued expenses                                                              76.3            56.2          215.1 
Creditors for stores and works                                               -               -               25.0         4,847.9
Other creditors                                                               17.1            33.8          104.6           355.8
Deposits and advances                                                        475.1           316.2          1,710.6       1,737.9
Government account                                                           253.3          356.1         2,136.0             1.9
Tntal c-rrent liabilities                                                                    7            4,192.9
Project pelita account                                                         _               _                            3 ,05 9
Contribution for pensions                                                      -                43.4            53.3           63.0
Provistion for income taxes                                                  1,269,5         1,269,5        1,898.1         3,695.9
Provision for  bad  debts                                                      _               _              623.8            11.0
Pension fund  and compensation payments                                        173.9           137.6           215.0          538.5
General development reserves                                                   -               756.5        1,182.1         2,961.8
Social welfare reserve                                                         _               136.8           214.2          537.7
Socialu welfare reserve                                                        -                68.8           107.5          269.3
Ceneral reserve                                                              1,237.2           275.2          429.9         1,077.1
Capital asset replaceCent reserve                                              -            33,445.8       33,046.6        32,948.9
Initial capital                                                                  5.3             5.3             5.3             5.3
Total Liabilities                                                            3,507.7        36,902.1       41,968.7        52,060.6
Ratios:  Current                                                                2.7            3.8             1.6             1.8
Liquid                                                               2.6             3.6             1.5            1.7
Source:  BPP
August 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOR PORT PROJECT
Estimated Balance Sheet Data 1976-1982
(Rps Millions)
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash on hand and in bank                                                      1,161      1,121       1,286      1,497       1,748       2,001       2,299
Sundry debtors                                                               6,500       5,600       5,200      5,300       5,400       5,500       5,600
Loans and advances                                                            2,800      2,900       3,000      3,100       3,200       3,300       3,400
Stores                                                                         871         975       1,092        918       1,028       1,130       1,244
Miscellaneous accounts                                                          750        840         941      1,054       1,159       1.275       1.402
Total current assets                                                        12,082      11,436      11,519     11,869      12,535      13,206     13,945
Fixed Assets
Gross non depreciable                                                        25,148     25,148      25,148      25,148     25,148      25,148      25,148
Gross depreciable                                                            16,873     21,043      27,648     48,094      52,559      58,024     64,889
Subtotal                                                                    42,021      46,191      52,796     73,242      77,707      83,172     90,037
Less accumulated depreciation                                                 7,186      9,196      11,506     14,461      18,039      21,865      26,000
Met fixed assets in operation                                               34,835      36,995      41,290     58,781      59,668      61,307     64,037
Work in progress                                                              9,407     15 114      17 842      5 100      11 150      19 000      23 550
Total fixed assets                                                          44,242      52:109      532T    6388           70,St8      80,307      17i 7
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                   56,324     63,545      70,651     75,750      83,353      93,513    101,532
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Salaries and wages payable                                                        3          3           4          4           4           4           4
Accrued expenses                                                                200        208         210         216        223         234         246
Creditors for store. and works                                                4,600      4,400       4,000      3,000       2,000       2,000       2,000
Other creditors                                                                 400        500         550         575        600         625         650
Deposits and advances                                                         1,959      2,057       2,160      2,268       2,384       2,500       2,625
Government account                                                                2          2           2           2          2           2           2
Total current liabilities                                                     7,16       7,170       6,926      6,065       5,213       5,365       5,527
Long-term Debt                                                                  1,665      7,018      13,451      17,479     23,490      30,307      36,517
Unpaid Revaluation Tax                                                          3,368      2,526       1,684         842          -           -           -
Unpaid Income and Other Taxes                                                  4,044       3,033       2,022       1,011          -           -           -
Unpaid Contributions to National Development Pund                               2,962      2,221       1,481         740           -          -           -
Equity Accounts
Government eapitsl                                                              820      3,553       5,719      9,557      13,912      16,136     17,302
Revaluation keserve                                                         32,949      32,949      32,949     32,949      32,949      32,949     32,949
Surplus                                                                      3,352       5.075       6.419      7,107       7.789       8.756      9.237
Total Equity                                                                37,121      41,577     45,087      49,613      54,650      57,841     59,488
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                                  56,324      63,545      70,651     75,750      83,353      93,513    101,532
Ratios:  Current                                                                    1.7        1.6         1.7         2.0         2.4        2.5         2.5
Liquid                                                                    1.6         1.5         1.5        1.8         2.3         2.3        2.3
Debt/Equity                                                              4/96       14/86      23/77       26/74       30/70      34/66       38/62
Source,  Bank Staff
September 1976



TABLE 17
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJIUNG PRIOR PORT PROJECT
Estimated Cash Flow Data 1976-82
(Rps Millions)
Total
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982   1976-82    Percentage
CASH REQUIRED
A.  Capital Investment Program
IBMD Project - Phase I                                     5,115   11,720   10,51o    2,470         -         -        -      29,815
ADB Project                                                 1,250      415       -         -        -         -         -      1,665
Project - Phase II                                            -        -         -      5,100   10,100   12,900   11,000   39,100
Other and Own Account                                         770      420       560      415       415       415      415   3L410
Total                                                       7,135   12,555   11,070    7,985   10,515   13,315   11,415   73,990           58.5
B. Debt Service
Interest                                                      229      502    1,018    2,003    2,826    3,527    4,326   14,431
Repayments                                                    -        -         -         49        99       957      960    2.065
Total                                                         229      502    1,018    2,052    2,925    4,4S4    5,286   16,496           13.0
C. Changes in Working Capital (other than cash)                   729      (612)     162    1,000    1,266        266       280    3,091        2.4
D.  Payment of Arrears to Government
Income Tax                                                    -      1,011    1,011    1,011    1,011         -        -       4,044
National Development Fund Payments                            -        740       740       741      741       -         -      2,962
Revaluation (1973) Tax                                        -        842       842       842      842       -         -      3,368
Total                                                         -      2,593    2,593    2,594    2,594         -        -      10,374        8.2
E. Annual Payments to Government
Current Income Tax                                         2,845    3,134    2,444    1,250    1,241    1,757          873   13,544
Current National Development Fund                           1,913    2,107     1,643      841       834    1,12'       587    9.106
Total                                                      4,758    5,241    4,087    2,091    2,075    2,938    1,460   22,650            17.9
F.  Total Cash Required                                        12,851   20,279   18,930   15,722   19,375   21,003   18,441  126,601          100.0
CASH AVAIIABLE
A.  Internally Generated Cash
Net Operating Revenue (before interest)                    6,352    7,266    6,349    4,732    5,583    7,431    6,268   43,981
Depreciation                                                1,855    2,010    2,310    2,955    3,578    3,826    4,134   20,668
Net Non-Operating Revenue                                     200      200       100        50      -         -         -        550
Total Internally Generated Cash                            8,407    9,476    8,759    7,737    9,161   11,257   10,402   65,199            51.7
B. Non-Port Projects - Not payable by BPP
Land Access, Bina Marga, Dept. Industry                                270       747       156      -         -        -       1,173
Housing Services                                                        83       415       124      -         -         -        622
Land Acquisition - Housing Construction                       415    2,320       585       -        -         -        -       3.320
Total                                                        415    2,673    1,747        280       -         -        -       5,115        4.0
C.  Long-Term Loans
IBRD Project Phase I                                          415    4,939    6,432    1,494        -         -        -      13,280
ADB Project                                                 1,250      415       -         -        _         _         -      1,665
Project Phase II                                              -        -         _      2,583    6,111    7,774   7.169   23.637
Total                                                       1,665    5,354    6,432    4,077    6,111    7,774    7,169   38,582           30.6
D.  Government Payments as Equity                                 817    2,737    2,157    3,839    4,354    2,225    1,168   17,297           13.7
E.  Cash Available, Beginning of Year                           2,707    1,160    1,121    1,286    1,497    1,748    2,001          -
F.  Total Cash Available                                       14,011   21,400   20,216   17,219   21,123   23,004   20,740  126,193          100.0
G.  Cash at End of Year                                         1,160    1,121    1,286    1,497    1,748    2,001    2,299                   408
Source: BPP and Bank Staff
September 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
Summary Cash Flow Data; Financial Plans 1976-79 and 1976-82
(Rps Millions)
1976-79                          1976-82
Capital Investments (from Cash Flow Table)         38,745                            73,990
Less Non Port Investments, not payable by BPP       5,115                             5,115
Adjusted Port Investments                          33,630            100.0           68,875              100
Internally Generated Cash                                  34,379                             65,199
Less:  Debt Service                                 3,801                            16,496
Additions to Working Capital                 1,279                             3,091
Payments of Arrears to Government            7,780                            10,374
Annual Payments to Government               16,177                            22,650
Increase in Working Cash Capital            (1,210)                             (40g)
(Reduction)
Total Deductions                                    27,827                             52,203
Internal Cash-Available for Port Investments                 6,552    19.5                    12,996      18.9
Loans                                                       17,528    52.1                    38,582      56.0
Government Equity Contributions                              9,550    28.4                    17,297      25.1
33,630   100.0                    68,875    100.0
Source: Bank Staff
September 1976
oo.



ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF SEA COMMUNICATIONS
Director General
Adml. Haryono Nimpuno
I nspectorates                                                                            f      Secretariat General
Brig. Gen. Hunholtz
- Planning
- Organization and Method
- Personnel
- Finance
- Material
- Legal and International
DI RECTORATES
Shipping                      Marine                     Navigation Aids               Coast Guard               Research and              Training                              e
Traffic                       Safety                     Capt. V. Arun                 Kol I Supardi             Development               J.H. Warula
L Sapta Adli                  M. WNibono                                                                         Mr. J Rustand,            - Maritime Academies
- Upgrading
-Examining Board
Security                  Ports and Dredging           Shipyards
Kol Jakarso               Ir Boediardio                Ir. Chatab Nuzwari
1    2    3    4       5    6      7    8    9
Maritime Districts
- Ports
- Navigational Aids
Finance
- Health
World Bank-9677



INDCONSIA
APPRAISAL OF TAbNlUG PR1DE PORT PROJECT
Port Administration Organization Chart and Department Manpo-er
PORT ADMtlISTRATION
labor Pool                                                                     Planning and
Operation                                                                      Projects unit-
Unit Usaha                T
|  (Operating Company)      1/0                                                                                                    Sertia            |_
Special ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Sertra
|   Security Unit                                                                                        FfAi:ni         eSgPublic                                                    ea th
Prira                                                                                                                                       Relations]       cetre
/I7     1 t /8145                         /540/                             145                                                               17457  I
Traffic Division                   Services Division               Technical Divicion               Financial Division               Dredging Division                 Pilotage Division
Sections                         Sections                        Sections                          Sections                        Sections                          Sectione
Cargos Statistics             land & Leases Electricity           Civil Engineering             Financial Administration               Operations                       Administration
(Commercial)                                                                                              _ _
Shipping Statistice                                               Floating Equipment                   Budgetting                      Maintenance                         Pilots
Water Supply
Labour Affairs                                                    Mechanical and                     Accountancy                        Fleet                            Crews
Quays, Transit Sheds            Ele-trical Engineering
end Warehouses                                                                                                                      Telecom unications
Headquarters
Equipment (Commercial)
Towing and Barges
1/ largely uses consultant services



U-i
MAWR  WO
10
2                                                                                                                         CD
I 10
<  0                                                                                                     O 04 u-   tE -o t
X E   x
Uj                                                                                                           < <
CL                                         2 5






IBRD 12151
MARCH 1976
AINTENA  .E
4   0t=f\ ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAtII
CONTAiNER OR-ANCS
INDONESIA
TANJUNG PRIOK PORT PROJECT
BASIN m CIVIL WORKS DETAILS      .       L.
W w < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUTO"5 
PROJECT AREA                      F1    E
,K7w    TRANSIT SHEDS
az->cO-~  NEW ACCESS ROAO) rD ICE
CONTAINER OPTION                        EE3
0 = - 2 CHASSIS CONTAtNER STORAGE
L _      STACKED CONTAINER STORAGE  C ,
EXISTING BUiLDINGS     .               n
EX STING ROADS
0  40  se    120   1s0     200
METERtS
0 0~ ~ 0
A~~L~~iE~    0   0 00 c
I~~~~~~~~~~~~) AEER 0. j ................... El ,,_r 
= -zc  oo rI
@ @ O O 2[1 C0 L L  aa 



