CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1337 - IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Tanjung Priok Port Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 4, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
e/


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BPP" means Badan Pengusahaan Pelabuhan (Tanjung Priok
Port Administration) a perusabaan nejara (statutory corporation)
of the Borrower or any other division of or within the Perum
responsible for the Tanjung Priok Port.
(b) "Master Plan" means the master plan for the development
of Tanjung Priok port during the period 1976-1983, as the same may
be modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
(c) "Prum" means perusahaan umum, a statutory corporation
of the Borrower established pursuant to the provisions of the
Borrower's Law No. 19 of 1960, as amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
(d) "Ports Directorate" means the directorate established
pursuant to Presidential Decrees 44 and 45, 1975, and any succes-
sor thereto.
(e) "PERUM" means the perum to be established by the Borrower
for the management and operation of the ports (to be designated)
with powers, responsibilities, organization, resources and finan-
cial structure and policies satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank insofar as they affect the management and operation of BPP.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan,,,shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum ou the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November,15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrover shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be car-
ried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port manage-
ment practices, as follows:
(a) Parts A, E, C (2), D and E (2) of the Project shall be
carried out through an adequately staffed Project Unit to be estab-
lished and thereafter maintained in BPP;
(b) Parts C (1) and E (1) of the Project shall be carried
out by the Directorate General of Highways within the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works in cooperation with the Borrower's
Ministry of Communications;
(c) Part E (3) of the Project shall be carried out through
the Borrower's Ministry of Communications in cooperation with the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(d) Part E (4) of the Project shall be carried out through
the Borrower's Ministry of Communications; and
(e) Part E (5) of the Project shall be carried out through
the Borrower's Ministry of Industry in cooperation,with the Bor-
rover's Ministry of Communications.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. In order to provide assistance in the design
engineering, procurement, construction supervision, studies, sur-
veys, accounting assistance to BPP and training required for or
included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants and experts whose qualificetions, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, within its Minis-
try of Communications a Ports Directorate which shall be responsi-
ble for the supervision of the management and operations of the
Borrower's ports, not under the management and control of the
PERUM and which, inter alia, shall include an adequately staffed
unit charged with the planning of all port development in Indonesia.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause BPP and its Direc-
torate General of Highways of the Ministry of Public Works to in-
sure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against haz-
ards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower, BPP or the said Directorate General, as the case shall
require, to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause records to be maintained,
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿9
Section 3.07. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make available to BPP the funds
required to carry out Parts A, B, C (2), D and E (2) of the Proj-
ect, including the proceeds of the Loan, under an arrangement to
be made between the Borrower and BPP with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Upon the incorporation of the PERUM, the Borrower shall:
(i) as necessary, revise its arrangement with BPP referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and make available to the PERUM
the funds to be provided by the Borrower to BPP pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this Section and the proceeds of the Loan allocated
for purposes of the carrying out of Parts A, B, C (2), D and E (2)
of the Project; (ii) cause the PERUM to make the said funds and
proceeds of the Loan available to BPP, under an arrangement satis-
factory to the Bank, and on the terms and conditions which shall
be established in accordance with Section 3.07 (a) of this Agree-
ment or such other terms and conditions as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank; and (iii) cause the PERUM to take all
such action as shall be necessary on its part to enable BPP to
carry out its function and responsibilities in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to, and other provisions of, this Agree-
ment.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the arrange-
ments referred to in Sections 3.07 (a) and 3.07 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bor-
rower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the said arrangements
or any provisions thereof.


﻿-10-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall implement, or cause the PERUM
(when established) to implement, a plan of action relative to BPP
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.


﻿-11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-12                                   9
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in ricordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause BPP:
(a) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BPP;
(b) (i) to have its accounts and financial statements (bal-
ance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate


﻿- 13 -
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of BPP and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request;
(c) to depreciate and to revalue from time to time in
accordance with appropriate financial principles and accounting
practices BPP's fixed assets in service.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause BPP:
(a) to carry on BPP's operations and conduct BPP's affairs
in accordance with appropriate engineering, financial and port
management practices under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by qualified staff in adequate num-
bers;
(b) at all times to operate and to maintain BPP's port facil-
ities, equipment and installations, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with appropriate engineering and port management prac-
tices;


﻿(c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to sell,
to lease, to transfer or otherwise to dispose of any of BPP's
property or assets, except in the normal course of BPP's business;
and
(d) to acquire, maintain and renew licenses, powers, fran-
chises and other rights, as may be necessary or useful in the
carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause BPP to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate port manage-
ment practices.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, no expenditures or commitments for ex-
penditures shall be incurred by or on behalf of BPP on account of
fixed or capital assets not included in the Master Plan, until the
fiscal year during which the last facilities included in the Master
Plan have been placed into service, except for:
(a) expenditures or commitments for expenditures required
for repair, maintenance or replacement of assets; and
(b) other expenditures or commitments for expenditures not
exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of one million dollars
($1,000,000) in any fiscal year.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, no debt to be serviced by BPP shall be
incurred unless the net revenues of BPP for the fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever
amount is the greater, shall not be less than 1.75 times the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of BPP including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" does not include debt incurred in the
ordinary course of BPP's business and maturing by its terms on
demand or less than one year after the date of its incurrence;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date on which
the contract agreement providing for the incurrence of such debt
is concluded;
(c) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from any
source, less all operating and-administrative expenses, including
adequate provision for maintenance, taxes and any payments in lieu
of taxes, but before provision for depreciation and interest and
other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt;


﻿-16-
(e) the term "taxes and any payments in lieu of taxes"
means any taxes normally included in the operating and administra-
tive expenses such as, inter alia, sales tax and fees, and, income
tax, revaluation tax, contributions to the national development
fund and the like; and
(f) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the terms of
the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange
at which such other currency is obtainable by BPP at the time of
such valuation, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if
such other currency is not so obtainable, at such rate of exchange
as shall be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.08. Without limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
provide or cause the PERUM to provide to BPP such funds as the
BPP shall require over and above its internally generated cash,
from time to time, to enable it to implement its development
programs.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) take all such measures or cause BPP from time to time
to take all such measures (including but not limited to adjustments
of the structure or levels of its tariffs or charges) as shall be
required to produce an annual return on the average current net
value of BPP's fixed assets in service of not less than 5% for


﻿- 17 -
each of BPP's fiscal years 1977, 1978, 1979 and 1980 and not less
than 7% for each subsequent fiscal year; and
(b) before August 31, in each of its fiscal years, comencing
fiscal year 1977, cause BPP, on the basis of realistic forecasts,
to review the adequacy of its tariffs and charges to produce for
the current and next following fiscal year such agreed annual
return, and to furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
BPP's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sua of the current net
value of BPP's fixed assets in service at the be-
ginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means gross revenues
from all sources related to BPP's port operations
less all expenditures incurred on account of such
operations, including expenses of administration,
adequate maintenance and taxes and any payments in
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 3%
per annum of one-half of the sum of the current
gross value of BPP's fixed assets in service at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year in ques-
tion. Interest and other charges on debt shall not
be deducted from gross revenues.


﻿- 18 -
(iii) The term "current net value of BPP's fixed assets
in service" means the gross value of BPP's fixed
assets in service less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, both as valued from time to time in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
methods of valuation or revaluation acceptable to
the Bank.
(iv) The term "taxes and any payments in lieu of taxes"
means any taxes normally included in the operating
and administrative expenses such as, inter alia9
sales tax and fees, and income tax, revaluation
tax and the like but excluding contributions to
the national development fund.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall not later than July 1, 1977
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, prepare or cause to be prepared a plan for the full set-
tlement of all claims and counterclaims between the Borrower and
BPP, including inter alia tax-claims and claims based on port
services provided to the Borrower by BPP, and after consulting
with the Bank thereon, shall promptly take such action as shall be
required to carry out such plan.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure that at all times the amounts owed to BPP for services
provided by BPP to any department, agency or enterprise of the
Borrower be promptly paid when due.


﻿- 19 -
Section 4.12. (a) The Borrower shall review the current port
procedures whereby the cargo handling companies receive 20% of stor-
age revenues accruing from BPP's tariff for the first 15-day period
and 10% of such revenues accruing thereafter and shall take all
such measures as may be necessary to ensure that (i) all storage
revenues are solely collected by BPP in accordance with its tariff
rates; and (ii) all payments for cargo-handling services are made
directly to the cargo-handling companies by the users of such
services.
(b) The Borrower shall, upon recommendation of BPP, estab-
lish and maintain tariffs and charges for each of BPP's services
and each of the services provided by the cargo-handling companies
that are based on the costs incurred by BPP and the said companies
in providing such services.


﻿-20-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(a) BPP shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BPP
or by others whereby any of the property of BPP shall or may be
distributed among its creditors; and
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BPP or for the suspension of BPP's operations or for the trans-
fer of a major portion of BPP's assets to another entity without
the prior concurrence of the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution and delivery of the arrangement referred to
in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
and the BPP, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, wi-hin the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the arrangement referred to in
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and the BPP respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and BPP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 4, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-22-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is de-
signated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry Finance                   DEPKEU JKT 44319
Jakarta                             DITJMON JKT 46415
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
54145 (wUI)


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for           7,800,000          50% (represent-
Parts A (2) and                              ing the estimat-
(3), B and C of                             ed foreign ex-
the Project                                  penditure compo-
nent)
(2) The roads and                500,000         50% (representing
utilities included                           the estimated
in Part D of the                             foreign expendi-
Project                                      re component)
(3) Mechanical equip-         9,400,oco          100% of foreign
ment                                         expenditures
(4) Consultants' ser-          2,400,000         100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures on
account of non-
Indonesian Con-
sultants and 80%
of expenditures
on account of
Indonesian Con-
sultants


﻿-25-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Technical assis-           1,500,000          100% of foreign
tance and train-                             expenditures
ing
(6) Unallocated               10,400,000
TOTAL     32,000,000


﻿-26-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may
be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4) on account of expendi-
tures incurred after September 30, 1975, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $750,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such


﻿- 27 -
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-28-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first phase of the Master Plan for
the development of the Tanjung Priok port. The Project consists of
the following:
Part A:   Basin III East
(1) Construction of a container berth of about 220 m., com-
bination berth of about 180 m. and a general cargo berth
of about 520 m.;
(2) establishment of 3 transit sheds, open storage areas, an
access road, paving and the necessary ancillary facili-
ties behind the general cargo berths;
(3) paving of about 6 ha. behind the container and
combination berths, together with necessary services
and ancillary works; and
(4) installation of two 40-ton container cranes, and provi-
sion of specialized mobile container handling equipment
and mechanical general cargo handling equipment.
Part B:   The Regional Harbor
(1) Construction of about 545 m. of new berths with transit
sheds, an access road and the necessary ancillary facili-
ties generally in accordance with the Master Plan; and


﻿-29 -
(2) provision of mechanical general cargo handling equipment.
Part C:   Land Access Improvements
(1) Improvements to the main external access road to the
port generally in accordance with the Master Plan; and
(2) construction of new access roads in the port on the
piers between Basins I and II, and between Basins II
and III.
Part D:   Housing
Construction of about 500 houses required for the relo-
cation of port workers, together with the necessary roads
and utilities.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
(1) Design engineering of the further improvements to the
main external access road to the port included in the
second phase of the Master Plan;
(2) training of BPP's staff in cargo handling, maintenance,
accounting, management and container operations;
(3) a study of existing customs procedures in the port for
the purpose of improving the efficiency of customs clear-
ance procedures;


﻿-30-
(4) comprehensive inventories of ports operated by the
Borrower, and a port survey to identify improvements of
Indonesian ports visited by regular liner ships required
to improve the turnaround time of such ships and the
general operation of.these ports; and
(5) a study to develop appropriate methods of distribution
of the products of Krakatau Steel Mill.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿-31-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (ernressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1981                       1,000,000
through November 15, 1996
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.85%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿-33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A (2) and (3), B
and C of the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the civil works for roads and utilities included
in Part D of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the
applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower in effect on
the date of this Agreement.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indo-
nesia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 35 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 36 -
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment and to be procured in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 of this Schedule, except for contracts required for Part
D of the Project, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of
the data for qualification, such information, including details of
ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according to
the classification accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group
o- firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿-37-
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualfi-
cation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part
D.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are no-
tified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works (excluding roads
and utilities under Part D of the Project) and equipment:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any


﻿-38-
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together


﻿-39.-
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿SCHEDULE 5
Plan of Action for BPP
1. Organizational Policy for BPP
BPP shall have exclusive responsibility for the management
and operation of its assets (including procurement), for the selec-
tion of its officers and staff within the approved establishment
level, for the planning and implementation of its future development,
subject only to a reasonable degree of supervision by or on behalf
of the Borrower or the PERUM and approval by the Borrower of BPP's
annual budgets. BPP shall have timely access to sufficient liquid
funds to carry out its day-to-day operations and its development
programs.
2.   BPP's Organization and Port Operating Procedures
The Borrower shall take and cause BPP to take the following
measures which are designed to improve the efficiency of BPP's
organization and the operating procedures in Tanjung Priok port:
(a) The Port Administrator, shall be given authority to
dispose of scrap material in the port by auction, subject only
to the approval of the Minister of Communication of the Borrower
which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b) BPP's operational and maintenance departments shall be
restructured in line with the regrouping of the port's operating
companies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (d)


﻿-41 -
(iii) of this Schedule, and the section heads in those departments
shall be given greater day-to-day decision making authority, in-
cluding the procurement and storage of spare parts, all within the
framework of established policies and budgets.
(c) BPP's planning and project bureau shall be separated from
BPP's maintenance department and be established and maintained as
a new department of BPP, with adequate qualified staff.
(d) The port's operating procedures shall be improved as fol-
lows:
(i) the port shall be divided into operational
areas for cargo-handling operations, as may
be agreed between the Borrower, Bank and
the BPP, each such area to include the
transit sheds and warehouses serving the
berths within its limits and to be enclosed
by a customs fence with control gate; each
such area shall be a separate customs area;
(ii) within each such area unrestricted movement between
transit sheds and warehouses shall be permitted for
all cargo remaining in the sheds beyond the free
period, subject only to notification to (not permis-
sion of) customs;
(iii) The allocation of sheds to operating companies
on each pier shall be rearranged so that sheds
allocated to one company shall, to the extent


﻿possible, be adjacent. Such rearrangement shall
be completed within two years from the Effective
Date, except as may be agreed between the Bank and
BPP. The amalgamation of operating companies being
arranged in the Nusantara Basin area shall, if
successful, be applied as speedily as possible to
the remaining areas of the Tanjung Priok Port;
(iv) the warehouses situated in the Perahu basin shall
be designated as separate storage areas for the
long-term storage of such goods as BPP shall
determine; movement of goods to such warehouses
shall be done by forwarding companies after
obtaining permission of customs;
(v) delivery of goods from any area to the consignee
shall be made by the forwarding company of the
consignee's choice, following customs clearance;
and
(vi) in licensing the operating companies or newly
formed associations of operating companies,
BPP shall require them to improve their produc-
tivity by increased use of mechanical equipment
after palletization of cargo in the ships' hold,
on the quay, in the transit sheds or open storage
areas and in subsequent transfer to the warehouse.


﻿- 43 -
The Borrower shall take all action necessary to achieve the
introduction of the measures and policies described in this sub-
paragraph (d) except sub-paragraph d(iii) not later than June 30,
1978, or such later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall cause BPP to implement within 24 months
immediately following the Effective Date, or such longer period of
time as the Bank may agree, those recommendations made by the team
of specialists from the port of Amsterdam, included in that team's
fifth progress report dated April 16, 1975, which are acceptable
to the Borrower.
3.   Customs Procedures
Upon completion of the study of existing customs procedures
in Tanjung Priok port, included in Part E (3) of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a copy of the study and shall,
after having exchanged views with the Bank on the study, implement
such recommendations emanating from the study as shall be neces-
sary for the improvement of such customs procedures as shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
4.   Accounting and Costing
(a) The Borrower shall cause BPP to further improve its ac-
counting system, inter alia: by establishing general ledger budget
centers, or functional departmental accounts; by accounting for ex-
penses by types of expenses; by consolidating its asset valuation
methods and depreciation accounts to exclude inconsistencies; and


﻿-44-
by discontinuing the use of the detailed classification of accounts
to assign expenses to revenue centers, as a basis for cost finding.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BPP to introduce a costing sys-
tem, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which shall be in
accordance with the following principles:
(i) The costing system shall be objective and therefore
without reference to or consideration of present
tariffs, kinds or levels of rates and without re-
ference to ability to pay, value of the service,
promotional or other rate making policies or any
demand factors affecting the levels of rates.
(ii) The costing system shall be reasonably apportioned
on the basis of the beneficial use theory whereby
the beneficiary or user of a function is charged
objectively with the proportion of the total costs
of that function according to the degree of use.
Many costs can be assigned directly to the activi-
ties for which they are incurred.
(iii) Cost finding should be done periodically, not con-
tinuously, based on the uses made of all facilities
over the period to be costed, as reflected by
special statistics maintained for the purpose. It
must be carried out separately from the continuous
day-to-day accounting procedures, by an independent
section.


﻿-45 -
(iv) The costing system shall be comprehensive and
shall include, inter alia, the determination
of the costs incurred in cargo-handling.
5.   Strengthening of Financial Accounting Staff
The Borrower shall cause BPP to strengthen its financial ac-
counting staff in a manner satisfactory to the Borrover and the
Bank, based on the recommendations to be made by BPP's accounting
consultants.


