Documm of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONY
Reptg Ng. 12547
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1162-EGT)
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12547
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Kiddle East & North Africa Region
Thi domnnt has a restrnctd disuibution and ma, be used bv recipieats only in tbe perfonname of|
eir ofricial deties. Its contents may not otbenvis be d-;scosed witwut World Banki anlonztiZtonI.



USS1 - LB 1.43 at Credit preparation tise in 1981
US$l = LE 3.33 at Credit closing time in 1992
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRORY.S USED
DRC         Desert Research Center
ESD         Economic Studies Department of GARPAD
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
VD          Feddan (one fd equal to 1.037 acres)
FR         Foreign Relations Department of MALR
GARPAD      General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural
Development
IDA         International Development Association
IDC         Information and Documentation Center of MALR
PBDAC       Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PPU         Project Preparation Unit
PPD         Project Preparatin Department
MALR        Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MIC         Ministry of International Cooperation
KOk         Ministry of Agriculture
NO     .    Ministry of Irrigation
MOP         Ministry of Planning
MPWWR       Ministry of Public Works ard Water Resources
MRDLR       Ministry of Reconstruction, Development and Land Reclamation
SIT         Societe D'Ing6nieurs et de Techniciens
TACC        Technical Assistance Credit Committee
TAP         Technical Assistance Project
UPEHC       Union for the Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPVBLIC OF EGYPT
UIESCAL VM
July 1 - June 30



POR OMCLAL UNU ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic of OMeStoGen.rat
SOperatons Evdluation                                          November 24, 1993
SUBJECr: Project Completion Report on Egypt
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1162-EG_)
Attached is te Proect Completion Report on Egypt - Technical Assistance
Project (Cdt 1162-EG7). Patts I and m of the PCR wee prepared by the Middle Eat and
North Africa Regional Office. Part I} cotains the comments of Borrowr agencies& No
comments were receied from USAID which cofinanced the project, or F--om FAO which was
involved in impementation.
Tne project objectie, as identified by a joint IDA/USAIID mision, was to provide
sector planning and project preparation capability for agriculture by developing a cadre of trained
staff within the agricultural ministries. Fne expatrate firm  and FAO were contracted to provide
technical assistance towards that end
Proect implementation took almost double the five years scheduled in the SAR
(which the PCR codere overambitious). One of the three agicultural sector ancis (which
had not atended negotiations) did not participate until the ninth year. Implementation was slow
because of the greatly delayed appointment of consultants and local stat procurement pioblems,
lack of commitment in some areas and inadequate project preparation and apprasal by the Bank.
Tis last problem had left important institutional aspects undecided and duplication of fuions
with existing agencies
Although performance improved towards the end of the extend project perod,
on balance the outcome of the project was unsatisfactoy (only one of the three components was
substantially succesfl), there was only partial achievement of institutional objectves and, except
for the project preparation department set up in the Ministry of Public Worss and Water
Resources, sustainabflity is uncertain.
The PCR provides a detailed account of the project axperience, It commnts on
an inadequate project design, a Isupply-drivU approach to technical assistance and the failure of
Bank supervision to tackle some of the resulting problems. Me PCR also descnrbes diMculties
which influenced consultants' performance.
An audit is plnned.
Atachmmt
Ths doament has o wetted dtbt0i and may be ud by recipi   nl In the pnlfyxrn  of
the offia du&ts. Its contt may not otwse be dlosed wWh  Wodd So& euthow ation.



FOR omCL USE ONLY
AMU REPUBLIC OF EGPM
.TECMNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1162-EOT)
Table of Contents
PREFACE.  .  .        -       , .                ......*..........*... *
VIALUATION SUJMARY  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . lii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PtSPECIVE 
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ..           1
Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . .   1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project DesLgn and organization . . . . . .  . .   .   3
Project Implementation  . . . . .. . ...... ..    5
Project Rsults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...      a
Project Sustainability and Risk . . . . .      * . . .  10
IDA Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . *  10
Borrower Performance  .l....  .  .  .  .  .. .
Consultants Performance .   c....    . .11
Project Relationship  ... .......... ....   12
Lessons Learned    ........ ........                     12
Project Documentationt...............                    13
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE. . . . . . .  14
(A) Project Preparation Department of MPWWR . . . . . . . .  14
(B) Conclusions from the PCR Report of the Project
Preparation Unit of the GARPAD  . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
(C) conclusions from the PCR Report of the Foreign
Relations Department of theNALR  . . . . .               1 . . . . .  1s
PART III   SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA  ....... ........   19
Table  I Relatod Bank Loan and/or Credit. . . .                    19
Table 2  Project Timetable...  .*.. .                              20
Table  3 Credit Disbursement.. ......              .    .. .       21
Table  4 Project Cost & Financing    . ............   22
Table  5  Status of Covenant  . . ..... . .                        23
Table  6 Use of ank Resources.........  .. .9...                   24
Table  7 A. Prefeasibility/Feasibility Work in which . . . . .
PPD-MlWWR Participated. ...... ...... ..   25
B. Prefeasibility/Feasibility Work in which
PPU-GARPAD Participated  ..............   26
C. Prefeasibility/Feasibility Work Identified for
PPU-GARPAL 'ork Program  .                   ...    26
organizational Chart of the Ministry of Irrigation                 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performue
of their offcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



!BRU3ZCM  M8ZSTni3  RO3n
(CPEDZT 1162-3G1)
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical
Assistance Project in Egypt, for which an IDA Credit 1162-EGT in the amount of
SDR 5.7 million was approved in June, 1983. After four one-year and one six-
mcnth extensions, the Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, and the final
disbursement was made on July 15, 1992. The undisbursed balance of SDR
104,346.S3 equivalent, to US$146,084 (1.8% of the Credit amount), was
cancelled.
2.         The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of
Country Department 1I, Middle Bast and North Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and IIX)I/.  Parts I and III are based on the
findings of a PCRL mission to Ugypt in February 1993 and on a reniew of the
President's Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA and the Borrower, and internal IDA memoranda. The Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR), the General Authority
for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural Development (GARPAD), and the
Foreign Relations Department (FRD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation (MALR) have prepared #.ompletion reports concerning their
components for Part It. The MPWWR's report and the conclusion section of the
GARPID's and FRD's reports have been included as Part 11 of this PCM; complete
copies of these reports are available in the ECA/MENA Information Center.
Since the USAID provided parallel financing for Project Preparation Department
of MPWWR, and the Food and Agricultural Organization (PAO) acted as executing
agency for the project component which dealt with the Desert Research Center
(DRC) and Foreign Relations Department of MALR, Part I and Part III of the PCR
was dispatched to FAO in Rome and to USAID office In Cairo but no comments
have been received to date.
I/   The Task Mnaer for the report Is Mr. K. S. Venkatraman, MN2AG. The report was prepared by Mr.
Moha iSd Usmain, Consultant. NN2AG.



- iii -
8CUIICRL AS8ItSANCU  PROJECT
(CNMD= 1162-8m0)
1.          Historically, Egypt pursued a public sector-led and inward-looking
development strategy stressing social welfare objectives. However, the "Open-
Door" policy initiated in 1974 brought about a partial liberaliL.?ion of
Egypt's economy and was instrumental in large inflows of foreiqgn jid. Since
1986, Government has pursued and intensified the liberalization programs. The
main objective of the Technical Assistance Project (TAP) was to establish in
the agricultural sector ministries the project preparation capacity to improve
the sector's investment program and to absorb the increased resources which
became available for the sector as-a result of implementation of the "Open
Door" policy.
2.          Fundamental changes in the structure and role of agricultural
sector ministries have taken place since the initial stages of TAP
implementation, in the early 1980s. At the outset, the agricultural sector
was served mainly by three ministriess the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the
Ministry of Reconstruction, Development and Land Reclamation (MNDLR), and the
Ministry of Irrigation (MOI). The General Authority for Rehabilitation
Projects and AgrS;:ultural Development (GARPAD) left MRDLR in the mid-80s and
joined MOR. Together, they constitute the present Ministry of Agriculture and
Land Reclamation (NALR). As such, the sector is now served mainly by two
ministries: NALR and MOI (NOI later adopted a new titles the Ministry of
Public Works and Water Resources (MPWWR).
ObJer,tiv_
3.          The project aimed at creating an institutional capacity for sector
planning and project preparation in the three ministries concerned with
agriculture. This would be achieved through developing and training a cadre
of staff in project preparation skills within the three ministries by
providing them with the assistance and guidance of internationally recruited
consultants and staff training. The consultants would assist local staff in
the identification of priority areas for public investment in agriculture and
the preparation of feasibility studies. Building an institutional capacity
for project preparation would also encourage donor financing of viable
projects.



-iv -
Project Desten
4.          The TAP'S concept was Laitiated from a joint-USAID and iDA mission
in January 1980 and was designed on tho basis of information provided by a
Bank Irrigation subsector Review mission in November 1980. The project did
not go through the normal project preparation cycles no preparation or
appraisal missions were dispatched to the field to review the project's design
and formulation In detail. A Presldent's Report for the project was prepared
in March 1981 and it was approves by the Board in June 1981. Among the three
agrlculture sector ministries, only NPWWR provided full support for the
project and took ownership of its component from the outset.- IDA made special
efforts to attract the other two ministries to participate ln the project
because of a belief in the importance of capacity building for project
preparation from a long-term sectoral perspective. The degree of Borrower
ownership was thus lower for the remaining two ministries. As a result, MNO
took almost nine years to decide on the design and content of Its
participation. IDA remained flexible and open to MOA's participation through
the years to encourage it to take part in the-institutional strengthening.
S.          Finally, in December 1990, MoA made a request and IDA agreed to
improve its project preparation and implementation capacity through provision
of technical assistance for: (li) upgrading and strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Desert Research Center (DRC) and MOA*s Foreign Relations
Department (FRD); (ii) local training of 600 staff; (iii) purchases of
computer facilities and office equipment for its Information and Documentation
Center (IDC); (iv) an integrated horticultural marketing study; and (v) a
grain storage and handling feasibility study.
6.         The project had serious design problems. For instance, the
Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in GARPAD was created in the presence of an
already existing department (Uconomic Studies Department) with almost similar
job responsibilities (para. 1.11). The latter did not possess the same
technical resources as the PPU, which attracted competent personnel. Given
the urgent need to strengthen project preparation capability, the PPU was seen
as the fastest way of achieving this objective. In addition, the project
proposed that a Technical Assistance Credit Committes (TACC) among the
participating ministries be established for coordinating submission of
progress reports to IDA and monitoring disbursements. It was not specified,
how and where (under which particular institution) the coordination and
monitoring function would be housed. In addition, although a Department in
the Kinistry of Planning (MOP) reviews agricultural projects and decides on
their appropriateness for implementation in the Development Plan, no analysis
was made to internalize the MOP's coordinating responsibility for the benefit
of the Project.
7.          The project had a prolonged implementation period, which increased
from five years estimated during project preparation to almost 10 years. The
extended implementation time was due to delays in the appointment of



consultants, posting of technical staff in GARPAD's Project Preparation Unit
(PPU) an4 the Project Preparation Department (PPD) of the Ministry of
Irrigation (the predecessor of MPWWR)l as well as delays in MOA'
partioipation in the project. A series of extensions were granted to allow
project activities to come to fruition. In this regard, it should be noted
that allowing only five years to develop project preparation capacities in the
agriculture sector was unrealistically short (para 1.20).
8.          Overall implementation proceeded smoothly in one component, the
PPD of MPWWR, even though, it took two years to recruit and sign the
consulting contract with the winning firm. PPU of GARPAD experienced delays
in appointing its consultants due to complications resulting from its entering
into price negotiation with all Interested bidders. one important issue in
this component is that through the life of the project, the duplication that
existed between the ESD and PPU in GARPAD was not corrected tlrough redesign
or reshaping of the component. Although MOA took a long time to decide on its
component, once this decision was made, the agreed program was implemented at
a fast pace of lses than two years. The project confronted some procurement
and disbursement-related problems, however, these problems were resolved
through the mutual efforts of IDA and the concerned ministries.
Lesults
9.          Considering TAP's design problems and indications of a supply-
driven approach, it is notable that the project had some partial success in
achieving its objective of establishing project preparation capacities in the
agriculture ministries with performance improving towards the end of the
implementation period. PPD in MPWWR was established and shows all signs of
being sustainable. The strengthening of the DRC in MOA, staff training and
studies as well as support of the MOA Documentation Center were successfully
implemented. The establishment of PPU-GARPAD wa much more difficult due to
lack of ownership by GARPAD and its sustainability is in question. In
addition, no efforts were made to assure a more integrated role for MOP.
10.         With regard to PPD in MPWWR, the choice of the consultant, staff
quality, and intensive discussions and interaction with review missions
contributed to its success. Presently, PPD is functioning with 28
professionals and 15 support staff, and, since its establishment in 1981, it
has participated in 23 project pre-feasibility/feasibility studies. PPU-
GARPAD's accomplishments are modest compared to that of PPD, it completed six
pre-feasibility/feasibility reports and gradually increased its cadre of
professional staff to 26. Besides on-the-job training by the international
consultant team, 18 staff from PPU received short-term foreign training.
However, the presence of another parallel department, the ESD led to the
questioning of the raison d'etre for the PPU after the Credit closing.  The
PCR Mission found PPU in a demoralized state, and it had lost most of its
staff and facilities since mid-February 1993 (para. 1.29). To reverse this
situation and remedy the existing duplication of efforts in GARPAD between
PPU, the Economic Studies and the PlanniLg Departments, the Borrower undertook
to merge these three entities to form one unit and to allow it to prepare



- vi -
projects for both public and private sectors (a fee is charged for services to
the latter). The merging procese, however, needs to be pursued further by IDA
in the framework of sectoral dialogue or any follow-up project.
11.         The project financed an Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer
(AVHRR) receiving station, computer and printing facilities, and training for
the Desert Research Center (DRC). These facilities enabled DaC to obtain
images from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
satellites and to develop and print images, expected to be used in the design
of programs and projects for prevontion of desertification and land
reclamation projects. As indicated earlier, the project strengthened the
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation.
Proect SustainabilitX and RIsk
12.         Project sustainability varies among the components.  PPD in MPWWR
appears to be well established and integrated into the ministry and is likely
to be sustainable. The strengthening of the DRC, Foreign Relations Department
and Documentation Center in MOA were successfully completed and will likely be
sustainable. The problem lies with PPU GARPAD where there has been an ongoing
lack of commitment by management demonstrated by the almost dismantling of the
unit upon project closing. The situation could be reversed by the recent
agreement (para 10) to merge PPU with the other units. However, it is likely
that if the proposed, merger is not pursued in dialogue by IDA, PPU could be
dismantled, the remaining staff move away, and the capacity building
undertaken under the project lost.
Lessons Learned
13.         The lack of project preparation and appraisal led to a flawed
project design. There is no substitute for an in-depth project preparation
and appraisal to address issues relating to project deeign, ownership,
organization, procurement, disbursement, whether it is for a technical
assistance or other type of project.
14.         Different degrees of success of the project's components can to a
large extent be explained by the degree of commitment to, and ownership of,
the different interventions by the participating institutions. For instance,
from the aottet MPWWR was in support of this project which facilitated a
conducive &* -Gphere for PPD to achieve its objectives.  Similarly, once NOA
determined tne nature of its participation, a sizable amount of work was
completed in just under two years, with the support of PAO. To strengthen
Borrower commitment, it is essential to: (i) involve closely the implementing
ministry in designing and formulating the project; (ii) provide flexibility
during implementation to accommodate changing needsl and (iii) complete
project agencies' training program in the early stages of project
implementation, which could enhance project acceptability and would provide
adequate time to apply acquired training under the supervision of consultants.



- vii -
15.         TAP was designed to work with the agricultural sector ministries.
However, it should also have supported the Department in-charge of
agricultural planning in the Ministry of Planning (MOP). MOP should have been
assisted in strengthening its analytical capacity to assess project viability,
especially from the .cnomio and financial points of viev. In addition,
improving interaction between MOP, PPD, PPU, and MOA would have enhanced crose
fertilization of experiences between the central and sectoral ministries and
could have assisted TACC to survive and function.
16.         The institution-building nature of the project required the
provision of more than five years implementation time. From the outset, the
project should have been designed to be either implemented over eight years,
or it should have been implemented in two phases. This would have avoided the
need for several extensions to complete project activities.
17.         A general prescription for institution building across different
ministries is not appropriate (para 1.46). Thorough review and investigation
of each institution should be made to formulate a workable design for each one
separately. In this regard, detailed preparation and project appraisal is as
valid for a TA project as it is for a regular lending operation.
18.         In view of the lack of preparation and appraisal, more attention
should have been given by supervision missions to identify problems related to
design at an early stage, and to change project design and scope, with
reallocation or cancellation of funds as necessary. In particular, the
duplication of project preparation units ln GARPAD and the issue of MOA
participation in the project should have been resolved earlier.



fCRED!T 9ROJICM
PART I. PROJECT MEVIEW PRON lDA'S ,PESPECIgIVE
Prolect identity
same           : Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number  s 1162-EOT
RVP Unit       t NENA Region
Country        s Arab Republic of Egypt
sector         s Agriculture
1.1         Ajriculture and Public Investment. Agriculture io an important
sector of the Egyptian economy, providing about 20% of GDP and merchandise
export and employing 35% of the labor force. Limitations of water and arable
land are the two major constraints affecting Egyptian agriculture. Cultivated
land in Egypt is limited to only about 3-4% of the total land area, and at
o.05 ha, Egypt has one of the lowest ratios of land per capita in the world.
The country has no effective rainfall except in a narrow band along the
northern coastel areas, and it is almost entirely dependent On irrigation.
Consequently, embarking on viable investment programs in land and water
resources assumes a high priority in agriculture.
1.2         Since the commissioning of the Aswan Dam in 1969, Government has
been pursuing horizontal expansion as well as vertical (deepening) investments
to enhance agricultural productior. and reduce Egypt's reliance on imported
food and feed stuff. Government spent 7.9% and 6.9% of its total planned
expenditures on agriculture during its First and Second Five-Year plans,
respectively. The planned allocation to the sector increased to 15.6% (about
LE 9.6 billion in 1991/92 prices) in the Third Five-Year Plan (FY93-97). A
range of activities in agriculture such as wages, extension programs, and
repair and maintenance are financed under recurrent expenditures which amount
to about 35% of planned expenditures. Except for foreign financing and donors
requiring economic studies, generally project preparation for investments is
confined to technical and engineerinq feasibility and cost estimation with
little economic and financial analysis.
1.3         Aricultural Sector Policy.  Historically, Egypt pursued a public
sector-led and inward-looking development strategy stressing social welfare
objectives. In the agricultural sector, Government controlled cropping



-2-
patterns through area allotments and prices through compulsory and voluntary
procurement schemes, maintained an overvalued foreign exchange rate, and
subsidized some imported food products. Investment decisions were made on the
basis of political and social considerations rather than on economic and
financial viability. The "Open-Door' Policy initiated in 1974 brought about a
partial liberalization of ugyptse econony and wi. instrumental in large
inflows of foreign exchange from foreign assistance and borrowing, oil-related
exports, workers remittances, tourism, Suez Canal revenue, and direct foreign
investment. The Technical Assistance Project (TAP) was to establish in the
agricultural sector ministries project preparation capacity to improve the
sectore investment programs and absorb the increased resources which became
available for the sector. Since 1986, Government has pursued and intensified
the liberalization programs. as part of these, Government Ls phasing out crop
area and price controls, liberalizing trade, and limiting its investments in
land reclamation efforts to provision of basic infrastructure (i.e, road,
water supply, secondary canals, and pumping stations) only.
1.4         Pubpic Institutions in the Sector.  The Government polic' and
program, in agriculture are carried out mainly through two ministriess
3inistry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) and the Ministry of Public
Works and Water Resourceri (MPWWR). The General Authority for Rehabilitation
Projects and Agricultuxal Development (GARPAD) joined MALR in the mid-80s:
before that, GARPAD was under the Ministry of Reconstruction, Development, and
Land Reclamation (MRDLR) which earlier on constituted a third agriculture
ministry. Also, during the project implementation stages, the Ministry of
Irrigation adopted a new name, the Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources. The Chaieman of GARPAD reports directly to the Minister of
Agriculture and Land Reclamation; however, GARPAD's administrative structure
remains separate and autonomous from that of the rest of MALR. For
convenience, in this report, the old title of the Ministry of Agriculture
(KOK) is used to connote all other departments and institutions of XALR with
the exception of GARPAD.
Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtion
1.6         Prolect Objectives.  The Technical Assistance Project was designed
primarily to establish and strengthen project preparation capacities in the
agriculture sector ministries. It was to do this through the development of a
cadre of staff trained in project preparation skills within the agricultural
ministries by providing them with the assistance and guidance of
internationally-recruited consultants and staff training. It was envisaged
that as the capability of the Project Preparation Department (PPD) of NPWWR
and the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of GARPAD, established under the
project, were built up, the units should increasingly be able to prepare and
supervise the preparation of agricultural development projects suitable for
financing by external donors.
1.6         _rolect Description.  The project was designed to finance
consulting firms - one firm for each project preparation unit in MPWNR, MOA,
and GARPAD, -- to provide the primary institutional support needed to help



-3-
develop the preparation units and to work with their staff to train them to
prepare projects. The training would Include in-country courses in economic
planning, engineering, and financial analysis related to irrigation and
drainage, land reclamation (new land development), and agricultural
production. External fellowsibps would also be provided. In addition, the
project intended to finance short-term consultants to undertake specific
studies, including, for example, design and engineering studies. The project
would also finance the foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials
necessary for institutional support.
1.7         During project implementation, .he Borrower requested and IDA
agreed to amend the Credit Agreement tot {i) finance some computer facilities
and foreign training programs for the Ministry of International cooperation
(MIC) and cover local training costs of some selected staff of MALR; and (ii)
increase Credit disbursement rates for consultant fees from the originally
provided 85% to 100%. This rate change was deemed essential as Government
signed the consultants' contracts on the basis that all consultants' fees
would be paid in foreign exchange.
Protect Design and Oreanization
1.8         The project's concept was initiated from a joint USAID/IDA
mission in January 1980 and was designed on the basis of information provided
by a Bank Irrigation Subsector Review mission in November 1980. Based on
further dialogue between IDA and Government, the project was prepared to
establish two project preparation units or departments, one for MOI and
another for GARPAD (at that time part of MRDLR). MOA could not at the time
decide on the form of its participation. The project did not go through the
normal project preparation cycle: no preparation or appraisal missions were
dispatched to the field to review the project's concept and formulation in
detail.
1.9         Among the three agriculture sector ministries, only MPWWR provided
full support for the project and took ownership of its component from the
outset. Beliewing in the importance of capacity building for project
preparation from a long-term sectoral perspective, IDA made special efforts to
attract the other two ministries to participate in the project. From that
perspective, the degree of Borrower ownership was lower for MOA and MRDLR, the
parent ministry of GARPAD. As a result, MOA took almost nine years to decide
on the design and content of its participation. With flexibility and the need
to persuade in mind, IDA remained open to MOA's participation through the
years. Finally, in December 1990, MOA made a request and IDA agreed to
improve WOA's project implementation and preparation capacity through
provision of technical assistance for: (i) upgrading and strengthening
institutional capacity of the Desert Research Center (DRC) and MOA's Foreign
Relations Department (FRD); (ii) local training for selected number of its
staff; (iii) purchases of computer facilities and office equipment for its
Information and Documentation Center (IDC); (iv) an integrated horticultural
marketing study; and (v) a grain storage and handling feasibility study.



-4-
1.10        The project was timely and relevant on account ofts () the
availability of substantial foreign financ'ng funds as a result of the
Egyptian "Open Door" policy initiatives (para. 1.3), and absence of adequately
prepared projects in the number and with the technical qualities that foreign
financiers demandedl (ii) Government's decision in the late 1970. to extend
Irrigation infrastructure to an additional 1.5 million fd of desert land, and
donors interest to introduce economic and financial analysis in the
implementation of this investment decisiong and (III) the weak sectoral
project preparation capability and thus the crucial impact that appropriate
project preparation capacities in the agriculture ministries would play in the
sector's long-tern growth and development.
1.11        Although the project objectives and timing were appropriate,
project design was flawed in that it lacked the proper institutional
groundwork for recommending the establishment-of project preparation units as
an integral and permanent part of planning and budgeting administration
structures in the ministries. A careful assessment of what was already
existing on the ground was not made.  The President's Report stated that the
project preparation units should be closely linked to the policy and decision-
making authority of their ministries and administratively removed from daily
operational activities and that a Technical Assistance Credit Committee (TACC)
would be established under procedures acceptable to IDA to coordinate and
approve requests for use of the proposed credit. This general prescription
provided some guidance to NPWWR to establish a workable Project Preparation
Department (PPD) under the Miniotry's Planning Sector and to link it with its
investment formulation and planning networks. In contrast, PPU in GARPAD was
created as an isolated entity with no administrative linkages with its
planning and project formulation structure (Planning Department). In
addition, in GARPAD an Economic 3tudies Department (ESD) already existed which
had been preparing feasibility reports for small projects for Government as
well as for private investors (subject to payment of fees). However, at the
time the project was put together, the E8D did not possess adequate technical
or managerial resources, and given the urgent need in the 1980s to organize
the preparation of public sector projects in agriculture, it was felt that it
would be more expeditious to establish a fresh PPU to circumvent red tape.
1.12        MOA could not decide on the mode of its participation and adequate
background work was not carried out to delineate the eatablishment of the
Project Preparation Unit to serve its rather dispersed and decentralized
institutional structure. Also, it was unrealistic to expect that a multi-
ministerial TACC could be established by the participating ministries to
coordinate effectively project implementation. Each one of these ministries
is autonomous and likes to be fully in control of its affairs, especially of
its budget and investment funds. The creation of TACC was not adequately
linked into the coordinating role of the Ministry of Planning which could have
provided it with a legitimate base linked to an existing function. As stated
the above, soon after its establishment TACC could not function and was
dissolved.



Protect Implementation
1.13        Crtdit  ff£etiweness and Protect tart-Uip.  Based on data and
information obtained during the Irrigation Sub-Sector Review mission of
November 1980, a President's report for this project was prepared on March 13,
1981. Negotiations commenced in Washington on schedule on April 28, 1981.
Except for the MOA, the other two ministries' representatives participated in
the negotiations.
1.14        Agreements were reached during negotiations-thats (i) pro:ect
preparation units would have primary responsibility for all the pre-investment
planning and project preparation work in their respective ministries; (ii)
MRDLR would transfer about 25 professionals to staff its PPU by September 30,
1981; MOI would transfer about 20 staff to its PPD by the end of June 1982;
(iii) PPU and PPD would set up a comprehensive training program and submit the
first year's program to the Association for approval, six months after the
date of the consultant's appointment, and (iv) special measures would be taken
to increase staff compensation. An agreement was reached with USAID on
financing of PPD8s staff incentives and hiring of consultants. The project
was considered on a Special Procedure Basis and approved by the Board on June
16, 1981, and signed on August 26, 1981. The Credit became effective on
January 15, 1982, with only 18 days delay from its targeted effectiveness date
of December 28, 1981.
1.15        The project implementation period was nearly double the original
five years, requiring almost 10 years.  The extended implementation period was
due to delays in appointment of consultants and posting skilled local staff,
as well as difficulties in providing modest incentive payments. There were
also delays in MOA's decision to formulate Its mode of participation under the
Project.
1.16        Appointment of Consultants.  The project's work program and
implementation schedule suffered considerable setbacks due to delays and
complications faced in the appointment of consultants. USAID and IDA reached
an understanding during the project negotiations that they would: (i) fund
consultants in parallel to support PPD of MPWWRs (Ui) enter into a separate
contract with a mutually agreed consulting firm; and (iii) abide by the sealed
envelope approach in the final selection of the consultants. Based on these,
and in compliance with the rest of IDA's Guidelines for Use of consultants, an
engineering consulting firm with an economic firm as sub-contractor were
selected to serve PPD under two separate contracts. The agreement with the
engineering firm was signed on January 20, 1983, for the USAID-financed
component of PPD and, on June 15, 1983, for the IDA-financed component. The
sub-agreement with the economic consulting firm became effective on August 21,
1983, about 1-1/2 years after the Credit effectiveness date.
1.17        PPU of GARPAD experienced additional delays in appointing their
consultants due to disagreements with IDA on procurement, delays in
ratification and signing of the consultant's contract, and the appointment of
a new management team in GARPAD. Disagreement with IDA arose as a result of



-6-       -
GARPADa negotiations with bidders and a request to reduce their costs. In
view of the urgent need to build in-house project preparation capability, and
to avoid further implementation delays, IDA agreed reluctantly with CARPAD's
decision. Ultimately, the contract was signed on January 24, 1984 with a
consulting firm, who commenced work in November 1984, almost three years from
the Credit's date of effectiveness.
1.18        Regarding the MOA component, MOA signed an agreement with FAO in
March 1991, giving PAO executive responsibility for the project's component
which dealt with DRC and FRD of MOA, Also, under the aegis of the MOA
component, the Union for Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops signed
a contract with a consulting firm in July 1990 to assist the Union in
promotion of horticultural crops processing, marketing, and trading.
Similarly, P8DAC signed a contract with another consulting firm for preparing
a grain storage and handling feasibility study.
1.19        AppoIntment of Local Staff and Provision of Incentives.  it was
agreed during negotiations that an incentive mechanism should be established
to attract qualified professionals to staff the PPD and PPU. Initially, both
PPU and PPD had difficulties in establishing an incentive mechanism, but PPD
found a temporary solution: an arrangement with VSAID to provide incentive
payment for its staff. With follow up by IDA, PPU arranged an indirect
payment procedure by providing local funds to its consultant group, who in
turn paid incentive allowances to local staff. However, this arrangement was
not sustainable and continued for only two years from 1987 to 1989; as soon as
the consultant's presence in the project was reduced, the payment stopped.
overall, despite shortcomings and questionable sustainability, incentive
payments succeeded in attracting qualified staff during the implementation
period. In the PPD, sustained support for the unit's objectives and its
integration into the ministry appear to be successful in maintaining staff.
Lack of management commitment in PPU-GARPAD may be more instrumental in the
loss of staff than the absence of incentive payment.
1.20        Imi1ementation Schedule.  The Credit's closing date was extended
by four and a half years from its target date of December 31, 1987 in view of
the short implementation period, long delays in hiring consultants,
procurement problems with GARPAD-PPU, delays in introducing the incentive
payment system, and reluctance of MOQ to participate in the project. The
original five-year implementation period was too short to achieve the
project's objectives, given the near lack of project preparation capacity in
the sector ministries. It took KoA nearly nine years to participate in the
project and to decide on the design and content of its participation. The
last six months' extension was given to the PAO-executed component of the MOA
activities as it experienced implementation delays due to procurement and
disbursement-related issues 4para 1.21).  The Credit was closed on June 30,
1992, and the final disbursement was made on July 15, 1992.
1.21        Procurement. Aside from disagreement between IDA and GARPAD on
the recruitment of consultants (para 1.17), the project confronted minor
procurement problems which were resolved through the mutual efforts of IDA and



-7-
the concerned ministries. Generally, individual consultant groups handled
procurement of office equipment and vehicles for their clients in exchange of
some service fee.
1.22        Another procurement difficulty arose in the purchase of DRC
equipment due to problems between PAO and IDA on the disbursement procedures
set up for payment. FAO policy first requires adequate funds to be placed at
its disposal before it proceeds with a purchase order. The initial
disbursement mechanism for the FAO-executed component of the project
stipulated the release of funds in three installments. The individual
releases were not sufficient to cover purchase of expensive remote sensing
machines and equipment. Conaiderable time was taken to sort out this problem.
1.23        Project Costa. The cost of the Technical Assistance Project at
the time of project preparation was estimated at US$9.4 million, composed of a
credit of SDR 5.7 million (equivalent US$6.9 million at the time), and a
government contribution of US$2.5 million. Actual project expenditures
amounted to about US$8.9 million which consisted of US$6.9 million and US$2.0
million of IDA and the government contributions, respectively. While the
government contribution to extra incentive payment was limited to just nominal
payment for staff of PPU of GARPAD for two years only, USAID provided
incentive and field allowances for PPD of MPWWR (para. 1.19), which are not
reflected in the project cost data.
1.24        Disbursement.  The estimated, revised, and actual disbursements of
Credit 1162-BGT are provided in Part III, Table 3. The volume and pace of
disbursements were much reduced due to the delay in consultant appointments
and slower than anticipated project progress. The disbursements were spread
over nine years, from the date of effectiveness, January 1982, and continuing
through July 15, 1992. The total IDA disbursements amounted to SDR 5.596
million equivalent to US$6.927 million (higher expenditures in term of US$
compared to the project preparation time is due to the appreciation of SDR
rate during the project implementation). An undisbursed balance of SDR
104,364.53 was cancelled effective July 15, 1992.
1.25        Credit Allocation.  The original and actual disbursements, based
on expenditure categories, for Credit 1162-EGT, are shown in Part I1S, Table
4B. The information on expenditure categories in this Table 4B, however, does
not portray the actual expenditures made in a particular category as funds
released to some consultants, such as FAO, were in lump sum and recorded under
the consultant category. Actually, FAG spent most of these funds for the
purchase of equipment and foreign training. Also, the staff received training
from the suppliers of machinery and on-the-job training from the consultants;
associated costs were not reflected in the cost Table 4B. The disbursement
records also did not properly articulate how much each participating
institution received. Both the Ministry of International Cooperation (MIC)
and the PCR mission spent considerable time to derive the share of individual
beneficiaries.



1.26        Reltgoiu.  PPD of MPWWR dispatched its quarterly progress reports
and annual audit reports on time to IDA. PPU-GARPAD did not. With persistent
IDA efforts, the PPU started sending audit and progress reports from December
1987.
p'Koecet Results
1.227       Considering TAP's design problems and indications of a supply-
driven approach, it is notable that the project had some ppartjal success in
achieving its objectives, with performance improving towards the end of the
implementation period. PPD in MPWWR was established and shows all signs of
being sustainable. IDA's intensive dialogue and assistance during supervision
mission was instrumental in this. The strengthening of the DRC in MOA, staff
training and studies, as well as support of the MOA Documentation Center were
successfully implemented. The establishment of PPU-GARPAD was much more
difficult due to the lack of ownership by GARPAD and sustainability is in
question. It is surprising that through the life of the project, no attempt
was made to redesign this component to take care of duplication of roles by
PPU and ESD. This may have been because of the initial inertia in ESD due to
a lack of technical resources. ESD seems to have become more active of
recent. It is also notable that no efforts were made to assure a more
integrated role for MOP.
1.28        With regard to PPD in MPWWR, the choice of the consultant, staff
quality, and intensive discussions and interaction with review missions
contributed to its success. At present, PPD operates with 28 professionals
and 15 support staff, and it is assisted by only a part-time consultant,
financed by USAID. Since its establishment in 1981, it has participated in 23
project pre-feasibility/feasibility studies, most of which are under
implementation now. Even though the IDA financial support was small compared
to that of USAID to PPD, IDA contributed significantly in establishing the
unit and in providing technical advice through its supervision missions,
especially during the initial stages of the project. Although IDA's financial
support ended in June 1988, its missions continued their technical support
with the PPD until the Credit was closed. PPD staff received most of their
computer and professional development training on-the-job from the consultants
engaged by PPP. In spite of its satisfactory achievements, PPD needs to
strengthen t.e economic and social analysis aspects of its project preparation
work and to upgrade the English language capability of its staff, especially
new recruits.
1.29        PPU-GARPAD's accomplishments are modest compared to that of PPD.
It completed six pro-feasibility/feasibility reports. While generally
technical and engineering issues were addressed in these studies, issues
related to economic and social analysis needed strengthening. PPU gradually
increased its cadre of professional staff to 26. Besides on-the-job training
by an international consultant team, 18 staff from PPU received short-term
foreign training. In addition to the six completed project pre-feasibility/
feasibility reports (Part IIS, Table 7B), PPU plans to work on ten other
projects (Part III, Table 7C) during the Third Five-Year Plan, FY1993-1997.



-9-
The presence of another parallel department, the ISO has led to the
questioning of the raLson q'etre for the PPU after the Credit closing. The
PCR Mission found PPU in a demoralized state, and it had lost most of its
staff and facilities since mid-February 1993. To reverse this situation and
remedy the existing duplication of efforts in GARPAD between PPU, the Economic
Studies and the Planning Departments, the Borrower agreed with the PCR mission
on the advisability of merging these three entities to form one unit and to
allow it to-prepare projects for both public and private sectors (a fee is
charged for services to the latter). The merging process, however, needs to
be pursued further by IDA in the framework of sectoral dialogue or any follow-
up project.
1.30        In spite of MOhWs delayed participation, the project succeeded in
strengthening the institutional capacity of DRC, FRD, and IDO of the Ministry.
Also, a grain storage and handling feasibility study for the Principal Bank
for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), and a feasibility study for
the construction of a packing house and grading stations for the Union for the
Producers and the Exporters of Horticultural Crops (UPEHC) were prepared under
the project.
1.31        The project strengthened DRC's institutional capacity through the
purchase and installation of an Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer
(AVHER) receiving station, printer and computer facilities and software
packages, and enlarging the office building to house these facilities. The
equipment suppliers provided on-the-job training for DRC's staff. Since
November 1992, this assistance has enabled DRC to obtain images from National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) satellites and to store and
print images which would be used mainly for designing land reclamation and the
prevention of desertification programs. The project was instrumental in
enabling DRC to become a member of the African network in monitoring
desertification and in receiving additional bilateral assistance from other
donors.
1.32        Under the project, the Foreign Relations Department (FRD) of MOA
provided local training for 600 staff of MOA at a cost of about US$400,000O
foreign training for 20 staff at a cost of about US$200,000 and US$100,000
worth of training materials and office equipment for the Egyptian
International Center for Agriculture and the different offices within the FRD.
In addition, the project provided US$270,000 worth of computer facilities, and
small construction work to house the computer network for the M0A's
Information and Documentation Center. Under the recent economic reform
program, PBDAC has been privatizing its input and output trading business.
The grain storage and handling feasibility study will thus have more limited
use for PBDAC than had been envisaged. However, the study is useful in
assessing location-based storage, inventory and capacity, utilization, and the
need for additional storage facilities in the country regardless of ownership.
The foreign consultant's first draft had some shortcomings. Ultimately, some
local consultants were incorporated in the team through which requisite data
and information were assembled and the job was completed.



- 10 -
1.33        In connection with the promotion of horticultural crops, a
consultant produced a feasibility study for the construction of packing and
grading facilities. The feasLbility study envisaged that both UPEHC and
private exporters would jointly finance construction of the packing and
grading facilities. However, after the private exporters realized that the
prevailing interest rate was more than 20% for financing this construction,
they lost interest in building the facility. Due to this, and disagreement
between UPEHC's management and the consultant regarding the work strtegy, the
consultant's contract was terminated prematurely in September 1991. However,
it was conveyed to the PCR mission that some of the report's findings and
recommendations are being considered for the construction of a new packing
house in Ismailia by an Arab Aid organization.
Projegt Sustainability and Risk
1.34        Project sustainability varies among the various components.  PPD
in MPWWR is well established and integrated into the ministry, and appears to
be sustainable. The strengthening of DRC, Foreign Relations Department, and
Documentation Center in MKA were successfully completed and will likely be
sustainable. The problem lies with PPU-GARPAD where there has been an ongoing
lack of commitment by management, demonstrated by the almost dismantling of
the unit upon project closing. The situation could be reversed by the recent
agreement to merge PPU witb the other units (para 1.29). However, it is
likely that if the proposed merger is not pursued in dialogue by IDA, PPU
could be dismantled, the remaining staff move away, and the capacity building
undertaken by the project lost.
1.35        One interesting development Is the move by PPD to try to sell its
servLces to the private sector or other public sector entities for a fee. if
this succeeds, it should cement PPD's sustainability and allow it to continue
to attract and keep good quality and highly motivated staff. If the merger
between PPU, ESD and the Planning Department in GARPAD succeeds, it is
expected that there may be some private sector demand for their services for
preparation of land reclamation projects. However, the PPU situation is
highly uncertain and its sustainability open to question.
IDA Performance
1.36        Although IDA succeeded partially in its institution-building
objectives, its performance left some gaps that should be avoided in future
projects. Among these are: inadequate attention to project design compounded
by pursuance of a supply-driven approach which resulted in lack of ownership
by GARPAD and initially by MOA of their project components and finally,
failure to take corrective action during the implementation period to change
project design of the PPU component and to resolve the issue of participation
of KoA in the project at an early stage. Furthermore, changes in IDA
personnel supervising the project did not ensure continuity. However,
intensive dialogue during supervision missions mitigated the impact of the
flawed project design and lack of formal project preparation and appraisal and
led to some good results particularly related to the PPD in MPWWR.



- 11 -
1.37        IDA sent 14 supervision missions (less than two missions per
year); however, the complexity of this project probably warranted more
frequent IDA supervision missions and a comprehensive mid-term review.
Supervision staff changed six times during the project's implementation
period. Despite thle, and due to the considerable effort put in by the
missions that took place, IDA managed to play a constructive role in solving
implementation problems, and partially succeeded in strengthening
institutional capacity for project preparation in the sector.
Borrower Performance-
1.38        The Borrower's performance is mlxed in view of the complexity
involved in establishing the project preparation units and in upgrading the
institutional capacities of the participating institutions. Individual
components of the project performance vary from good accomplishment in the
case of PPD-MPWWR; to mixed or weak performance of PPU of CARPAD. MOA's
performance was good on certain components (DRC, FRD, Documentation Center)
but mixed on other, the grain storage and promotion of Horticultural Crops
Studies. In addition, the length of time taken by MOA to decide on its
participation was a problem. A major issue remaining for Borrower action is
the proposed merger of PPU, ZSD, and the Planning Department in GARPAD.
Consultants Performance
1.39        Five consultant groups rendered expert services to different
component of the project. The consultants group which collaborated with PPD
rendered an excellent service in training of the PPD staff and in assisting
the local staff to prepare feasibility reports. Their collaboration with PPD
will continue, on a part-time basis until September 1993, and steps have
already been taken to secure their services periodically, on short-term basis,
once the present contract ends in September. Another consultant group worked
with PPU of GARPAD from November 1984 to September 1991. This group's overall
performance was satisfactory. However, due to delays in local staff
appointments, on-the-job training experienced some difficulties and
consultants shouldered a greater part of the project preparation work
initially. The foreign training program organized by the consultants had some
shortcomings (too short, some only two weeks); furthermore, adequate emphasis
was not placed on training in project economic and financial analysis.
1.40    '   The remaining three consultant groups were involved with the
project components in NALE. Consultants who were working with DRC and FRD of
hALR carried out their responsibility with a high level of expertise and
diligence, to the satisfaction of both of its clients. The consultants
working with the Union for the Producers and Exporters of Horticultural Crops
(UPEHC), faced some problems with their output (feasibility study), due to
factors explained in para 1.33, and due to the disagreement between UPEHC
management and the consultant regarding work strategy. While it should be
acknowledged that the consultants work was satisfactory, the rapidly changing
economic environment and financing situation made it difficult to implement
the consultants' report recommendations. Eventually, the contract was



- 12 -
terminated prematurely in September 1991. The group of consultants working
with PBDA& confronted some problems and their first report had some
shortcomings (para 1.32). Bowever, this was remedied in their final version.
Project Relationship
1.41        IDA and the Borrower maintained a cordial and friendly working
relationship throughout the project implementation. During the initial stages
of the project, some disagreements emerged over the selection of consultants
with the PPU of GARPAD (para 2.17) and over procurement. *owever, soon they
were resolved and cordial relations continued throughout the implementation
period. As the project design was considerably open from the outset, the
close cooperation between IDA and the Borrower was a main factor for
accomplishments achieved in a changing policy and institutional setting under
which the project was implemented.
8essons Learned
1.42        The lack of project preparation and appraisal led to flaws in the
project design. There is no substitute for an in-depth project preparation
and appraisal to address issues relating to project design, ownership,
organization, procurement, disbursement, etc.
1.43        Different degrees of success of the project's components can to a
large extent be explained by the degree of commitment to, and ownership of,
the different interventions by the participating institutiona. For instance,
from the outset, MPWWR was in support of this project which facilitated a
conducive atmosphere for PPD to achieve its objectives. Similarly, once MOA
determined the nature of its participation, a sizable amount of work was
completed in under two years, with the support of FAO. To strengthen Borrower
comlitment, it is essential to: (i) involve closely the implementing ministry
in designing and formulating the project; (ii) provide flexibility during
implementation to accommodate changing needs; and (iii) complete project
agencies, training program in the early stages of project implementation,
which could enhance project acceptability and would provide adequate time to
apply acquired training under the supervision of consultants.
1.44        TAP was designed to work with the agricultural sector ministries.
However, it should also have supported the Department in-charge of
agricultural planning in the Ministry of Planning (MOP). MOP decides on the
appropriateness of projects for investment in the Development Plan, and it
allocates the funds to development projects. Therefore, MOP should have been
assisted in strengthening its analytical capacity to assess project viability,
especially from economic and financial points of view. In addition, improving
interaction between MOP, PPD, PPU, and MOA would have enhanced cross
fertilization of experiences between the sectoral ministries and could have
assisted TACC to survive and function.
1.45        The institution-building nature of the project required the
provision of more than five years implementation time. From the outset, the



- 13 -
project should have been designed to be either implemented over eight years,
or it should have been implemented in two phases. This would have avoided the
need for several extensions to complete project activities.
1.46        A general prescription for institution huilding across different
ministries is not appropriate. Thorough review and investigation of each
institution should be made to formulate a workable design for each one
separately. In this regard, detailed preparation and project appraisal is as
valid for a TA project as it is for a regular lending operation.
1.47        In view of the lack of preparation and appraisal, more attention
should have been given by supervision missions to identify problems related to
design at an eariy stage, and to change project design and scope, and
reallocate or cancel funds as necessary. In particular, the duplication of
project preparation units in GARPAD and the issue of MOA participation in the
project should have been resolved earlier.
1.48        Finally, Credit disbursement was separated on the basis of
categories of expenditures, not on the basis of the components and receiving
institutions. The Borrower's budgetary process requires that allocation for
investment expenditures as well as debt service payment should be reflected in
the general budget, separately for each ministry or Government agency.
Therefore, it is advisable that IDA's disbursement should also reflect the
funds used by different receiving institutions. This is especially important
for a project like this in which several separate institutions and ministries
were beneficiaries.
Project Documentation
1.49        The President's Report and Credit documents were clear.  However,
to maintain flexibility in allocating project resources, the Credit was not
apportioned in the project document to the participating institutions. Due to
later Borrower requests and need to expand project scope to cover 100% of
consultant expenditures and local training costs, the project scope expanded
and Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement was modified. Participating
institutions in agricultural sectoral ministries maintained separate project
accounts. While PPD-MPWWR dispatched its quarterly project progress reports
and annual audit reports regularly, PPU-GARPAD complied with these reporting
requirements following substantial delays.



INIRY OF PULIC WORKS              - 14 - 
AND WAA RESOURCES
Telephn 2201S55Ot
Tetm 22,117 Ut t4                                        1
agAE 1Z~1!Co; gTM
PART 'I. PROJET~ UWEW MRM TsE DORWOIEt S POVIT
(A)' Pr*oj ot PIrs tr&Lti'~Det&ttment 6f UPOR
The Projeci was designed to assist the Ministry ot Public
Works and Water Resources to improve institution'al capacity to
undertalce preinvestment planning, feasibility studies and etber
works related to project preparation for Irrigation development
by, financing consultants and short-term specialists.   To meset
wit* h thse objectives a Project Preparation Unit was net up in
the Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources.
During the evolution and implementation of the project the
Bank performance was quite adequate, considerate and  aelpfull
in all aspects. Adequate, as regards disbursement to technical
advisors according to a contractual plan of advanced
instalments.  Considerate, in as much as appreciaiting the
Mth tha reasons for demanding payment -of Category (1) of the
credit in full (100 1) instead of (85%). And, helpfull by pro-
viding the MR of the comments and findings of Bank eva-
luating missions to Egypt.
During the evolution and implementation of the project the
performance of the P.P.U. was quite satisfactory in many
aspects as pshown inAthe memoire's prepared by all evaluation
missions. The project objectives were met and the PPU of the
nPWWR has now matured and functioning quite satisfactory. The
4PWWR' relies upon the PPU for projects and policy inputs.
Lessons learned atre limited to the unuse of any of tphe
funds allocated for offshore trainingn the matter which should
have been encouraged by botb parties.
A.. X.,1 4X
IMgao hBuilda n fno  El Iand funcionisaat P..  114 s fatyek Shube



-15 -
PAM S$ () .  O8~CS0WZOr1om PCI 31P0RT OF TM PR OJC PRBPMRTION MIT
or ARPA
44 (a) >   gSjj
It is a cliche to say that no plan survives contract with
re-lIty,   but  one  containing  much  truth.   The  initial
appraisal  contained some flaws.   One was to  underestimate
the   different motivations of  qulie  highly  paid  foreign
consultants and rather poorly paid Egyptian technical staff.
A  second  was In poor analysis of  the  language  problems.
This resulted In a third - an over-optimistic forecast of
the speed at which work could be accomplished.
This way have been caused partially by the Bank's  lack of a
permanent office in Egypt.
Overall,   however,   the  appraisal  was  reasonable,,  the
budgeting  was  good,  and  IDA  and  the  borrower   worked
together harmoniously.
The  major  objectives were achieved.   PPU learned. how  to
undertakc   feasibility   studies,   how  to  use  them   in
development planning, and how to evaluate studies conducted
by other agencies or consultants.   It can now carry out its
own  studies.   Despite some early problems,   the  training
program, both local and overseas, was successful, while the
procurement   program  raised  PPU's  level  qf  facilities,
particularly  in data processing.   The three extensions  to
the  original  contract,  and favourable  comments  made  by
recent Bank missions on work in progress, demonstrate the



- 16 -
real progress that was made. Thus, generally speaking,
the   proSram  fulfilled  most  of  the  tar-gets  originally
envisaged by :DA planners.
44 (b)  Laa...I*r.n£
Planners  must accept a slower work rate than In the
private sector unless lox government salaries are
augmented   by  regular  and  substantial  incentive
payments.,   Given  the domestic budget  problems  of
Egypt,  these could have been provided from the hard
currency  budget.    (This  appl ies  to  many  other
countries).
Much  more  attention should have been paid  to  the
language  aspect.   The  choices  are to devote more
funds to training In English, or to accept work In
Arabic   and   to   provide   adequate   funds   for
translatlon.
There  was  little or no  training  In  post-project
evaluation. This must be stressed in futures
Every  effort  was made to disburse loan  funds  for
local -procurement and other Items such as  language
training. The hard fact remains, however, that most
of  the loan funds disbursed to PPU  eventually were
spent  in  th UK and the USA.   Very little  of  the
money  remained  in  Egypt.   In a program  of  this



-17-
nature, vith little local contracting this is
perhaps inevitable,  tiirouIh cOTIideratioir. i:Quld be
given to inviting the participation of local private
sector consultants, or even to direct asslstance to
such consultants If appropriate programs can be
devised.
44 (cO fin iis1sua- -
In sumsmary,  the program was largely successfult despite the
problems  mentioned  abovet   and  elsewhere  in  the  text.
GARPAD/PPU  would  therefore  like  to  thank  IDA  for  Its
financial and other support during the program, and to
express  Its  hopes that such 'upport can be maintained  for
future programs and projects.



- 18 -
ARAB REUBLIC OF EGYPT
MIlNITRY OF AGRICULTURE
V.tiI, APkkuh9u RduiMa
hwtlsuo'a OrPWoS" 
C o'.uas DeP_Uf
PART II (C). CONCLUSIONS PROK PCR RPORT OF TS FrIG   REBATION DEPAR
O F! MINISTRY OF AGRICULTU   AND_LAND RLCMATN IMALRt
Results and Coznclusions
A)   Activities of the =oJ2ect
The project entitled wTechnical Assistance to the Desert Research Center
- UTF/EGY/019/BGY, included the following activities:-
I-   The grovision of e=jvnent. -pare Parts and otber materials:-
PAO has provided the procurement of the following equipment ard
supplies to the Desert Research Centers and the Forelgn
agricultural Relations.
(1)   MwaUMnk
"AVWRR, equipment for upgrading ERDAS capabilities  GI3 equipmlent
for upgrading intedligent workstation capabilities, software,
computer system, computer system furniture, and cannon copier.
(2)  ShUl1ies
Polyester Film, Photo Reproduction, Ink, Bank all colors, Roll
papers, and floppy diskettes and other supplies.
11-  The Technical Inguts
FAo's technical inputs was only required to assist and advise in
the prelpration of the technical specifications for the equipment
and materials requested (preparing liat of potential supplies,
provision of specific technical consultancy and equipment
purchases) recruitment of necessary consultancies and preparing
the training and study tour programMes.
IU?- Trainina
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has
administered in consultation with the Desert Research Center, the
Foreign Agricultural Relations, -and the F"aect Management a
number of study tours and training p".oVrammQ8,



- 19 -
PART III. SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1.  Wa1qt4 B^nk loans and/or Credit
Loan/credit                                             Year of
Numblr_                           Title               Aroval        Status
Cr. 181                  Nile Delta Drainage I          1970         Closed
Cr. 393                  Upper Egypt Drainage 1         1973         Closed
Ln. 1276                 Fruits and Vegetables          1976         Closed
Ln. 1235 & Cr. 637       Upper Egypt Drainage IT        1976        Closed
Ln. 1439 & Cr. 719       Nile Delta Drainage II         1977         Closed
Cr. 830                  Agricultural Dev. Project      1978         Closed
Cr. 988                  First Agro-industries Project 1980          Closed
Cr. 1083                 New Land Development           1981        Closed
Cr. 1111                 Fish Farming Dev. Project      1981        Closed
Ln. 2270                 Irrig. Pumping Stn. Rehab.    1983          Closed
Ln. 2243                 Second Agro-industries
Project                      1983        Closed
Ln. 2561                 Ag. Development II             198$        On-going
Ln. 2562                 Drainage V Project             1985        On-going
Ln. 2732                 Channel Maintenance Project   1986         On-going
Ln. 3071                 Agricultural Storage Project  1989         On-going
Ln. 3198                 Irrig. Pump. Stn. Rehab. II   1990         On-going
Ln. 3417 & Cr. 2313      National Drainage Project      1991         On-going



- 20 -
TABLE 2. Prorict TImetble
Item                         Date          Date               Date
Planned       Revised            Actual
Identification                                                 1/80
Preparation1/                                                  1/80 to 3/81
Appraisal mission                                              Not applicable
Negotiation                   4/81                             4/81
Board Approval                6/81                             6/81
Credit Signature              8/81                             8/81
Credit Effectiveness                           12/81           1/82
Credit Closing               12/87             12/88
12/89
12/90
12/91
6/92          6/92
Credit Completion            12/86             12/88           6/92
X     UWhie no independent preparation report gas provided for this project, the project was formulated on the
basis of the Sank Irrigation Sub-Sector Review report.



- 21 -
TABLE 3. Crdit Disbursement
(Cr. 1162-EGT)
p,Dibugement tin US , MilionL
IDA Fiscal Year               Estimated   Revised      Actual          Actual % of
Quarter                       Cumulative  Cumulative  CumulativeO/    Estimated
1982/83     3                  0.4S         -            -
4                  0.90                      -              -
1983/84     1                  1.35         -          0.128             9
2                  1.80         -          0.128             7
3                  2.25         -          0.128            6
4                  2.70         -          0.128            5
1984/85     1                  3.10         -          0.575             is
2                  3.50        1.44        0.764            53
3                  3.90        1.S1        0.97S            64
4                  4.30        1.89        1.076            57
1985/86     1                  4.63        2.50        1.076             43
2                  4.96        2.95        1.474            50
3                  5.28        3.00        1.544            51
4                  5.60        3.20        2.060            64
1986/87     1                  5.93        3.21        2.343             73
2                  6.26        3.22        2.470            77
3                  6.58        3.23        2.719            84
4                  6.90        3.24        2.719            83
1987/88     1                   -          3.29        2.896             88
2                   -          3.41        2.966            87
3                   -          3.54        3.198            90
4-                             3.60        3.242            99
1988/89     1                              3.74        3.294            88
2                   -          3.79        3.413            90
3                   -          4.07        3.5S41           87
4                   -          4.07        3.596            88
1989/90     1                   -          4.20        3.737            89
2                   -          4.50        3.794            84
3                   -          5.00        4.076            82
4                   -          5.50        4.076            74
1990/91     1                   -          5.80        4.197             72
2                   -          6.00        4.226            70
3                               - -        4.390            -
4                   -           -          5.216            -
1991/92     1                                          5.571            -
2                   -           -          6.302            -
3                               - -        6.646            -
4                   -           -          6.918            -
1992/93     1                   -               -      6.928            -
M Historical US$ equivalent; Credit was fn SDRs.



- 22 -
TABIR 4.  grolect Cst gd Fincfir
a. ProSect Cost (in d ltIfE! US*)
.              -      tf   UMM
Appraisat Estimate                            Actual
Local   Foreign Total                     Local   Forelgn Totat
items                           Costs   Costs   Costs                      Costs   Costs   Costs
Staff(localt                       1.0      -       1.0                     1.0               1.0
Consultant*s ServIces              O.S     3.9      4.4                     0.3       4.1     4.4
Materiats and Equipment            0.2     0.9      1.1                     0.2       1.5      1.7
Trafning                           0.3     1.3      1.6                     0.4       0.9     1.3
Facilities                         0.2      -       0.2                       .5              0.5
Continencies                       0.3     0.8      1.1
TOTAL                              2.5     6.9      9.4                     2.4       6.5     8.9
8. Loan Allocation (in mUltion SEI)
Anoraisal Estimate       Revised           Actuat
1. Consultant's Services                     3.200                    4.000            4.276
2. Materials and Equipment                   0.700                    0.300            0.332
3. Training                                  1.100                    0.700            0.988
4. Unallocated                               0.700                    0.300               -
Total                                        5.700                    5.700             5.596
C.  Fiancial Plan (in aittion MMS)
Amoratsal Estimate                              Actual
Local            Foreign                  Local            Foreign
IDA                       -                6.9                       0.4               6.5
Government4              2.5                -                         2.0
1/      Table 4A portrays a more accurate picture of itemized expenditure than Table 48. Table 43 is
developed from Bank's disbursement file in which total disbursement to FAO is recorded under
Consultant and to FRD of PALR urder training categories. Actuatly, equipment purchases constituted
about 70X of FAO, and 25X of FRD expenditures from under the Credit.
2/      Government paid tocal staff salaries and to PPU of GARPAD sow. incentive payments and fietd
alltoances. As it was utabersome to catculate exactly Government's contribution to staff salary,
incentivw payment, field allowances, and transport operation costs, such contribution assumed to
smount to be the same as anticipated during the project preparation.
3/      In addition to the provision of offfee space, Government contributed USS$22,000 and USS16,820 for
the construction of civit work facilities for DRC and IOC-PALR, respectively.
4/      The Governtent s contribution Is calculated on the basis of actual as uell as estimated data, as the
exact record of the Government's expenditures was difficult to obtain and also part of the
Government's contribution came in kinds.



- 23 -
TAKE S. Statlg    of Cont
Brief Descriptfon                      Selectf0n
Of Covenants                         Application       Coipl ance      Remarks
Borrower to establish a Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) in the         Exec, 3.02(a)      Yes
Ninistry of Land Reclamation.
Borrower to ensure appropriate                                       Compil ed with considerabte
stafffng of PPUs through adequate                                    delays and shortcomings.
incentive arrangments and             Exec. 3.02 Cd)    Yes
recruitment procedus.
Borrower to establish a Technicat     Bclec. 3.03        Yes         Estabilshed on August 5, 1981,
Assistance Credit cnnittee                                           but dhe to significant admfnistration
(TACC).                                                              probtem, TACC was dissolved.
All feasibflity studies and training
activities under the Project shoutd be
subJect to review and agreement of    Exec. 3.04 (a)    Yes
IDA before fmplemmntation.
PPU submit to IDA through TACC its    Exec. 3.04(b)      Yes         Both PPO-PWUR and PPU-GARPAD
amual work plan and semianmwal                                       copltied, but PPU with mich
progress report.                                                     initial delays.
Borrower to ensure that employment
of consultants is based on terms and   Exec. 3.05(e)     Yes
conditions satisfactory to both
itself and IDA.
Borrower to ensure that equipment and
material are procured pursuant to     Exec. 3.05(c)      Yes
procedures satisfactory to tDA.
Borrower to maintain separate         Other Cov.2
accounts for the project.             4.01Ca)            Yes
Borrower to audit account and
to furnish IDA with audit reports     Other Cov          Yes
within sfx months of the year's end.  4.01(b)
ZVOsM  . O  CWAeme. AawSd Wof WiAumug



- 24 -
TABL .. 6.
Steg                    Nurdr    Days                                           r pe
of           Nonth/     of        In       Special1atI n  Perform.              of
Project         Year     Persona    Field    Reprosented'   Status"             problem'
Throuoh ADra1est
Identificstion    1180    1
Prep fration     5/81      1
S - rvfshn        
SA       1.      11/8t    1        10            Agr. Ec          1
SUI      2.       2182     1        8            E                1
SAN     3.       11/82     1        4            E                1
SAN     4.        8/83     I        1            Ar. Ec.          2               M,P
SAN      5.       3/84    2         4            Agr. Ec. E       2               M. P
SAo     6.        9/84    2         2            Agr. Ec.         2               D, M, P, a
So       7.      10/85     1        5            Ec.              2               0DF,N,P.R
SANI    8.        7/86     1        21           E                2               M,Do
S"I     9.        4/87     1        1S           E                2               M,Do
SM       10.     12/87     1        11           Agr. Ec.         2               16,0D
SM       11.     10/88     1     =  5            Agr. Ec.         2               N. Do
SM       12.      3/89     1         3           Agr. Ec.         2               N, Do
SM       13.     11/89     1         4           Agr. Ec.         2               N. o
UAe      14.     II/"      1        20           Agr. Ec.         2               M. Do
a/      The nuwber of days retorded portrays tho nission time spent Sn the feltd for supervisfon of other
projects as well, since It was a co6bined supervision mosSion.
fri E: eawinher; EC: Economist; Aar. SC: agricuttural economist; end IF: informatfon technotogy.
51      1   problem free; 2 a wmderate probLem; and 3 a Major Problems
4, 0: disbursment; D0: devetopment objectives; N: manageriat; P: procurement; C: consultant; and R:
reporting.



-25.-
TAILE 7. A. PreMfeasibiltIMFefsMbilf t  Mark *  n   WIn Ch P0-WAR Particfcatef
Prolect3 stIlU                                                      Cost In LE Mitliqn
1.  Drainage Project 5                                                      675
2.   Pump Rehabitlitatian Project                                            Z
3.   charnel Maintenance Project                                            170
4.   Mew Esna Barrage                                                       267
5.   Conservation of Nit,  ut-f low to the Nediterranean                     na
6.   New Naga Hammadi Lock                                                   42
7.   B hr Et Gharaq Project                                                  na
8.   North Zifta Irrigation                                                  27
9.   Widening of Ismlita Canalt                                             450
10.  Et Safsaf  Canal Project                                               1.2
11.  Reclaimsng 400.00 fd in Sinai                                        1,045
12.  2eplacement of Santa Regulator                                         0.9
13.  Replacement of Abu Et-Shekouk Regulator                                1.5
14. Replacement of Shoubrabas Regulator                                    10.6
15. Reclamation of 40,000 fd of East of Suez Canal                          614
16. Evaluation of Irrigation Welts                                           na
17.  Replacement of Idfina 8arrage Slab                                     7.5
18.  Improvement of Irrigation at the Tail end of Atf Canal (Stage I)        na
19. Second Stage of Atf Canal                                              0.06
20.  Production Wells for Irrigation and Drainage in West Samilut            19
21. Economic Analysis of Agricultural Denefits from Water Storage
in Lake Burullus                                                       280
22.  Reclametion of 135,000 fd in El Ser Valley In Sinaf                    686
23.  Vest Nubaria Agriculture Intensificatian Project                       450



- 26 -
S. Pre-Feasibility/feasiblltv itork In Uhich PPU-GARPAD Partiisated
,Plroect lit                                                        Area in
-Id-
koqra Plain                                                         60,000
Tins Plain                                                          65,000
Vadi Rayon                                                          1S,000
North Sinai I                                                     250.000
Sidi Abdet Ati                                                      22,000
North Sinai 11                                                   400,000
East Owinate                                                        50,000
C. Pre-Feastbilitv/Feasibif tv Work I* fi fied  for PPU-GARPAD Vork Progran 
Pro1ec* Titte                                                       Area in
fd_
Cabsa and Alamin, and North Vest Coastal Area
of Wadl El Farogh                                                  168,000
Abou  Nsdi and Katabshow                                             20,000
Cairo/lsmailia Desert Road                                           20,000
satehia Desert                                                       50,000
Uad1 Qena                                                             5.000
Wadi Leqete                                                          50,000
Maser Lake Coasts                                                    50,000
Quaraween Plain in W. Desert                                         35.000
Toshky                                                               50,000
East Owinate                                                         60.000
According to the PPU Head, the Unit would work on the following projects which were already included
in the Third Five-Year Ptan, FY1993-97, provided PPU would not be dissolved.



atattsm or ultttAlatt
amS FOX       ESON  aTIPOISWAT
L Z   :s .|"flt2tO  8OR
CWOST       WATSOER                                                  1010 M  gcasaxo  OX2*AT102
raotmioN  Outwit             AWMFOt.LO  UtAi,nwc                 zM ow .M           .PWPIZN AU
VUIW?CVAL  SEMASIUTATIOW            VIS FOR         'J/9 row~~~PUSC                       IICOSOIS
-  ___~~~~~SM  A# _1  AUM tCC tf:tsa                                               1|                    fA
:~ ~~~~~PW A. nAS1 S.U                                                                                                    MCZTS  _  l tS£Ct
Cnles    nnn¢Tlul~~~"A CEIIIR                 FAWlD1t                                C               jC   
:~~~~~~~~~~~xco .  |Fltit                         .              tt£ATIO _ r. 
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~SATSISV$fxW                                                                       O
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m"WC                                  ,    A  AP   A           a.OA
|~~~~~~~~~Ut ,s 'AnrgZIe"
lointsi5Ttax        IMe"                                                      LOAWA                gm RCtOt    ,° a 
r~~~~~~~~~~O .                                        .M.N
I      .                   I         .                          I~~~~~~tatgT
*1l   IllFttttU$    I   lus           ATrot   I qmmiRCtO                 l



