Document of
The World Bank                    FILE CoPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2994-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
MAY 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofecia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound = US$1.43
1 US Dollar       = LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMECON - Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EEC -     European Economic Community
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
GNP     - Gross National Product
GODE    - Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt
PPU     - Project Preparation Unit
TACC    - Technical Assistance Credit Committee



FOR-OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:               SDRs 5.42 (about US$6.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project
Description:       To help the government develop the institutional
capacity, initially in the Ministries of Irrigation and
Land Reclamation, to undertake pre-investment planning,
feasibility and engineering studies and other work
related to project preparation. In addition to long-term
institutional support, including necessary materials, the
project would fund short-term specialists and training
programs. The project would also help fund special
studies related to project preparation. The project
would help the ministries involved to determine
investment priorities and develop projects, thereby
substantially strengthening their investment programs and
reducing reliance on outside assistance. Risks of poor
project performance would arise primarily from the lack
of sufficiently trained counterpart staff in project
preparation and related delays in adequately staffing the
project preparation units. The project's provision for
extensive on-the-job training, as well as domestic and
overseas training programs would address these problems.
Risks of delay would be reduced with the requirement
that, as a condition of effectiveness, a project
preparation unit (PPU) would be established in the
Ministry of Land Reclamation; the PPU in the Ministry of
Irrigation has already been established. The
organization of the PPUs, staffing requirements and
training program have also been discussed with the
government, and agreement has been reached on selection
and appointment procedures for consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Cost;                                   US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Staff (local)         1.0         -         1.0
Consultants            .5        3.9        4.4
Equipment              .2         .9        1.1
Training               .3        1.3        1.6
Facilities             .2         -          .2
Contingencies          .3         .8        1.1
Total           2.5        6.9        9.4
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                -          6.9          6.9
Government          2.5          -         2.5
2.5        6.9         9.4
Estimated
Disbursement:
UI$ Million
(IDA Fiscal Year)
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Annual         0.9      1.8      1.6      1.3      1.3
Cumulative    0.9       2.7      4.3      5.6     6.9
Rate of Return;        N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               N.A.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDRs 5.42 million
(about US$6.9 million equivalent) to help finance a technical assistance
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMYI'
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.       Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open Door"
policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not
a radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in the face
of changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy
there was progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of
rapid economic growth and greater prosperity.
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the government took a number
of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the gradual
devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LE), and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been devalued by 44 percent from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE at present. Exchange restrictions were eased,
specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas, and
more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offered attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade
with COMECON countries was much reduced.
1/ This section is the same as that for the HADISOLB Steel Rehabilitation
Project ($64 million), the documents for which were distributed to the
Board on May 5, 1981.



-2-
5.       In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same
time petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at rapid
rates and workers' remittances as well as tourism became significant
sources of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, Egypt was facing serious
balance of payments problems. The base from which foreign exchange
revenues were growing was too small to meet the increase in imports
triggered by the liberalization program and the government's commitment to
providing ample supplies of basic consumer goods at stable prices.
However, large capital inflows, primarily from the oil-rich Arab Gulf
states, sustained the "Open Door" policy during the 1975-77 period. These
loans and grants also complemented the public sector's fiscal resources and
allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and public sector
investment.
6.       By the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to show clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid growth in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last
two years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum
exports and workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980.
On capital account, the cessation of Arab aid following the Camp David
agreements was largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance,
and an increase in direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in
the oil sector.
7.       The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the budget considerably. Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, tb 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed
investment increased from about 25 percent of GDP in the 1975-1977 period
to almost 28 percent over the last two years with the share of national
savings in total investment rising from 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in
1979; real GDP growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.       While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of
development is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing
openness and accompanying structural changes have made economic management
more difficult and changed the environment in which economic policies
operate. Inflation has emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to
1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy and resource allocation
and investment decisions were centrally determined. Moreover,
international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative prices
may have been out of line with world prices, price inflexibility did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors. Effective
demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply followTing the
income gains that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and



-3-
other receipts. All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on
domestic prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible
prices, and where there are no easily functioning mechanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustments appeared large and unjust. Some small adjustments were made
and, in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact
surge upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be
achieved. As a result the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods has continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleum sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy. In May 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June. As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981
(July 1980-June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates
to describe the most recent developments.
10.      Overall GDP growth averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81
prices over the last four years.l/ The very high rate of growth reflects
the emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture
stands out by its low growth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although
it should be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to
the 1965-75 period when growth averaged 1.5 percent. The combination of
continued growth in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices
has resulted in considerable changes in the structure of GDP. The share of
petroleum in value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19
percent in FY81.
11.      Production of crude petroleum is at present averaging close to
650,000 barrels a day (32 million tons a year). There is general agreement
in Egypt and among foreign observers that the proven reserves attached to
Egypt's large established petroleum fields could not sustain production at
present rates beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last two
years Egypt has added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven
reserves largely through a continuous stream of small discoveries.
Investment in exploration by foreign oil companies has increased
1/ In 1975 prices real growth would decline to 8.5 percent, the difference
being due to the changed petroleum prices.



-4-
dramatically since the oil price increase of mid-1979 and is expected to
average at least $600 million annually for the next few years. Given the
performance achieved over the last two years and the massive investment
program, it is only reasonable to assume that new discoveries will continue
to occur. The magnitude of these discoveries remains, of course, highly
uncertain.
12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent
in FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of
existing gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully
release additional quantities of petroleum for export. However, the level
of the exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by over 11 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to GDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977. The marked
improvement in the balance of payments since 1979 has allowed for some
buildup in foreign exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at
end-1980 (about one and a half months of imports). Despite the apparent
strength of the balance of payments, certain structural features are worth
noting: (i) Agricultural and manufactured exports constitute only a very
small fraction (10 percent) of Egypt's foreign exchange receipts.
Petroleum ($3.1 billion in FY81), Workers' Remittances ($3 billion), the
Suez Canal ($0.9 billion) and foreign capital inflows ($2.9 billion)
dominate the accounts. (ii) Food imports, at $2.6 billion, are almost
equal to petroleum earnings. Moreover, with severely limited arable land
and a growing population, Egypt's dependence on imported food is likely to
grow. (iii) The share of imported capital goods in overall investment is
high. Along with import requirements of industrial raw materials, this
implies a continued high import dependence in the medium term.
14.      The liberalization of Egypt's trade and payments system has
contributed significantly to the balance of payments performance. However,
by enhancing capital mobility (through the creation of the so called "free"
foreign exchange market 1/) financial liberalization has made it more
1/  The official exchange rate applies to transactions taking place within
the framework of the government's foreign exchange budget and has been
fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0 since January 1979. However, the free market
exchange rate has fluctuated between LE 0.75 and LE 0.85 per $1.0 over
the last two years.



-5-
difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies entirely divorced
from external circumstances. Attempts to keep domestic interest rates much
below world levels will lead to private capital outflows and an upward
pressure on the "free" market exchange rate. Policies to mobilize private
savings through the development of a domestic capital market must,
therefore, be complemented by an interest rate policy that acknowledges the
growing sensitivity of capital movements to the relative structure of
incentives.
15.      Most "competitive" imports and exports were shifted to the
parallel market rate of LE 0.70 per dollar at the end of 1977. The rate
applying to these transactions has thus remained constant since 1977.
Since inflation in the domestic Egyptian economy has been somewhat more
rapid than inflation affecting the real value of the dollar, the purchasing
power parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowly but steadily
appreciated with respect to the dollar over the last 3 to 4 years. Egypt
faces the typical problem of real appreciation characterizing many natural
resource and oil exporting economies. While oil and service receipts have
shown spectacular growth, non-oil merchandise exports have declined in
volume since the mid-1970's. Part cf this decline may be due to the
necessity of replacing Egypt's traditional Eastern European markets with
outlets in the convertible currency areas. But the transition should by
now have been achieved and increasingly the problem may be due to an
erosion of Egypt's competitive cost position and a shift of incentives
against exports. The trend towards real appreciation has also reduced the
profitability of import competing activities. The situation is
complicated, however, by the subsidies provided to domestic producers
through low energy prices and other subsidized inputs. These subsidies
allow competitive production of some exports and import substitutes inspite
of the appreciating real exchange rate. The medium and long-term prospects
for the volume and composition of merchandise trade, therefore, are
intimately tied to developments in price and exchange rate policies.
16.      While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a continuous improvement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of GDP. The
1980 budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included
several proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures.
The most important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in
electricity tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a
reduction in consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were
dropped when a new government took office in May 1980.  A different set of
measures were announced and a new budget presented to the People's Assembly
in response to growing signs of social tension and based on the additional
revenues provided by the petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to
public sector employees, the prices of several commodities were reduced and
the government embarked on a large scale import program. The declared



-6-
objective of the new budget and the accompanying measures was to break
inflationary expectations, raise incomes of disadvantaged groups and
reaffirm the government's commitment to ample supplies of basic commodities
at stable prices.
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit will
decline substantially as a percentage of GDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the
current budget will actually be in surplus. This improved situation is due
to the additional resources provided by the petroleum sector and the Suez
Canal. Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than tripled
since 1978 (9.1 percent of GDP in FY81), more than offsetting the
deteriorating trend in Central Government savings. This massive increase
in public revenues has reduced the need for domestic bank financing from
more than 9 percent of GDP in 1979 to less than 5 percent in FY81, the
lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last few years. This has not
so far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of
the banking system has been more than compensated by much more rapid growth
in net foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments.
Since a large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the
government, domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the
expansionary monetary effect of public sector operations. During the
present phase of foreign asset accumulation, monetary control requires
special sterilization policies so that the fiscal improvement can reduce
the underlying inflationary pressure which constitutes such a crucial
source of concern for Egyptian policymakers and which is an obstacle to
many of the required reforms in the areas of pricing and institutional
change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in briefz a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a
key geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily,
however, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute
domestic for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign
contributions decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a
number of sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new
capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate
fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical



-7-
professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still
reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for
about 22 percent of GDP but only one percent of total employment. While
tourism and remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number
of people, they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and
technological development. Moreover, the long-term real growth potential
for receipts from petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The
challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of channeling a good part of the
surpluses and revenues from these "natural resource" based sectors, into
productive investment in agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in
order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and employment
expansion in the domestic economy. There is tremendous scope for improving
the efficiency and dynamism of domestic institutions and production
processes, particularly at a time when overall resource constraints have
been eased and the absence of short-term crises provides a valuable
opportunity to address the difficult problems of long-term structural and
technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show that
population has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. Although the
government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take
considerable time and further measures to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of government administration through organization and



-8-
procedural modifications and selective changes in salary structures;
(ii) increase real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of
domestic resources and fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of
prices as meaningful indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a
long-term export promotion policy including appropriate management of
incentives and real effective exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and
balanced program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; and
finally (vi) intensify efforts to develop a coherent and effective
population policy. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980, was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6 percent
of the total disbursed debt. Debt service payments on medium- and
long-term debt have fluctuated around 20 percent of export earnings during
the last few years.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in the overall
resource situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a
longer term perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is
still a relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to
55 million by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if
Egypt is to meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need
for continued large foreign capital inflows in the medium-term.
26.      If Egypt can successfully develop its export and import competing
sectors, and given the significant amounts of concessional aid flows, it
should be able to meet some of its foreign exchange requirements through
borrowing on commercial terms. In the medium- and long-term, debt
servicing as a percentage of exports is expected to remain at around 18
percent during the next five years. In the longer-term, the debt service
ratio will depend on domestic policies and on developments in the oil
sector.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
27.      The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fifty-eighth lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$2,136.1 million.2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted
in the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, water
supply, population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and
education sectors. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors. Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which
can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has
been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
29.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and
lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives
for more efficient production. Efforts under Bank financed projects have
gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and
increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the HADISOLB Steel Rehabilitation Project
which was distributed to the Board on May 5, 1981.
2/  This includes the HADISOLB Steel Rehabilitation ($64 m) and Beheira
Water Supply ($56.6 m) Projects which are scheduled to be presented to
the Board this fiscal year.



-10-
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Bank has also carried out a study on small-scale industries. Finally,
the Bank is assisting the government in a comprehensive study of the
construction/contracting industry, which is one of the major bottlenecks
facing Egyptian industry today.
30.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
31.      Bank Group disbursements in 1980 represented about 10 percent of
Egypt's medium-and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 3.2 percent and
2.4 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1980. For the future, the Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding
military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.8 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1985. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.4 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
32.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1979); a fish farming
project (1979); a building material project (1980), and a tourism project
(1980). IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects.
33.      In several specific areas, the Bank Group has already provided
Egypt with technical assistance for sector development. It provided
technical assistance credits of $2 million for Water Supply (compieted in
July 1980) and $11 million for New Valley Phosphate Engineering (approved
in May 1979). As Executing Agency for the UNDP, it has also provided
technical assistance for Water Resource Development Planning, Banking
Studies and Training, Restructuring Capital Markets, and Power Sector
Survey and Maintenance of Thermal Power Plants, for a total amount of about



-11-
$4 million over the past ten years. Project Preparation Facility advances
for Greater Cairo Urban Development ($1 million), West Nubariya (New Lands)
($1 million), Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation ($0.3 million), and Fish
Farming ($1 million) were also approved in the past two years for project
preparation and design work. In addition, technical assistance and
training components have been included in most recent IDA credits and Bank
loans to Egypt.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE NEED
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
34.      Agriculture continues to be the largest sector of the Egyptian
economy, contributing about 23% of GDP and employing about 40% of the labor
force. While the country's overall rate of economic growth has accelerated
since the mid-1970s, the expansion of agricultural output has averaged only
about 2% p.a., substantially below the rate of population growth and
income-induced increases in demand.
35.      Given its climatic characteristics, geography and natural resource
base, Egyptian agriculture has for several millenia been inextricably tied
to irrigation. In the last century or so there has been a considerable
development of the irrigation infrastructure which has permitted the
introduction of very intensive cropping techniques and use of progressively
more modern inputs. The culmination of these infrastructural activities
was the construction of the monumental High Aswan Dam, commissioned in
1969, which allowed the final conversion of almost one million feddans from
basin to perennial irrigation and was accompanied by an ambitious program
to extend the irrigated area in Egypt by over 900,000 feddans by the
mid-1970s.
36.      While the High Dam achieved spectacular results in flood control,
regularization of Nile River flows and power generation, statistics on
cultivated land and agricultural output do not record any meaningful upward
shift from their longer term trends; in fact, since the mid-1960s the
output growth trend has been noticeably below the 3.6% p.a. average of the
preceding decade. The substantial investments in newly irrigated lands
commencing in the 1960s have not been very successful and as much as
two-thirds of the area has yet to be brought up to acceptable productivity
levels. Concurrently, the large additions to irrigation water supplies
deriving from the High Dam have raised groundwater levels, forcing the
initiation of a country-wide drainage program for virtually the entire
irrigated area, absorbing the major part of the Irrigation Ministry's
capital budget by the middle and in the late 1970s. In the latter part of
the 1970s, the government announced a massive new undertaking to extend
irrigation infrastructure to an additional 1.5 million feddans of barren
land, placing a very high premium on adequate project analysis, design and
implementation.



-12-
37.      As the geopolitical, national security and economic environments
underwent fundamental alterations in the mid-1970s, the government has
sought progressively more ambitious investment programs in a number of
sectors, including agriculture. However, the government has not yet been
able to develop adequately its own capacity to review investment priorities
and to prepare acceptable projects in the numbers, magnitude and scope that
is necessary to take full advantage of the large increase in domestic and
international resources.
38.      In order to assist in the overall task of agricultural and water
resource planning and development, the Bank undertook in 1977 to act as
Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed Master Plan for Water Resources
Development and Use (UNDP Project EGY/73/024). Concurrently, the Bank
Group sought to diversify the scope of its financing for agricultural
projects which since 1970 had been exclusively involved in the drainage
program. These efforts have led to a number of new Bank-assisted project
activities in the agricultural sector, including in FY81, assistance to
reclaim desert land in the Delta. With the assistance of a recent
irrigation sector study, the Bank is now reviewing with the government a
range of potential projects to support agricultural development.
39.      While the 1978-82 Five Year Plan allocated about 8.6 percent of
public sector investment for agriculture (primarily in drainage, irrigation
and new land development projects), the 1981-85 Five Year Plan has
allocated 12 percent of total investment to agriculture, with an additional
6 percent of investments allocated for fertilizer plants and agricultural
storage and processing facilities. Thus, over the next five years the
government is planning to quadruple for agriculture the annual spending
rates of the 1970s. The principal government investment for agriculture
will continue to be heavily oriented towards projects of the Ministries of
Irrigation and Land Reclamation.
40.      This planned expansion of investment in the agriculture sector
places an increasing urgency on identifying investment priorities and
developing and increasing the number of well-designed projects. The main
agricultural ministries require assistance in building a strong sectoral
planning and project preparation capacity. In general, the lack of enough
highly qualified operational planning staff in Egypt is a serious
constraint to the formulation and implementation of programs and projects
in the agriculture sector. There is very little experience and virtually
no training opportunities in the multi-disciplinary approach needed for
sub-sector planning and project preparation, monitoring and performance
control.
41.      In light of these constraints the government has requested
technical assistance for project preparation activities, initially for the



-13-
Ministries of Irrigation and Land Reclamation.l/ If the return on
investment, currently envisaged at LE 2.4 billion over the next five years
for the agricultural sector is to be maximized, the engineering framework
for project planning and preparation must be preceded by proper soil and
hydrological surveys and supplemented by economic analysis. This work must
be done in the context of economic analysis at both the macro planning and
the agriculture sector and irrigation subsector levels, as well as for
projects and programs within each sector. The proposed credit provides
full-time consultants to work with Egyptian counterparts to help develop
project preparation units to undertake this work. The institutional
support provided by the consultants would be supplemented by extensive
training programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.      Early in 1980, during a joint USAID/Bank irrigation sector
mission, the Bank began discussing the possibility of technical assistance
to assist the Egyptian agricultural ministries to identify and prepare
projects.   At that time, the Bank recommended that a multi-disciplinary
Project Preparation Unit (PPU) be established within the Ministry of
Irrigation, assisted by foreign consultants and training to be financed by
external donors. The objective would be to improve and develop the
Ministry's capability to prepare feasibility studies, design and
engineering work to provide the basis for projects suitable for financing
from local and external sources.
43.      In November 1980, a Bank Irrigation Subsector Review mission
further discussed and reviewed technical assistance requirements and in
particular the need to develop a project preparation capacity within the
three main agricultural ministries: Irrigation, Agriculture, and Land
Reclamation. During the mission, the Ministries of Irrigation and Land
Reclamation agreed that PPUs would be established for this purpose. The
Minister of Irrigation has already issued a decree establishing a unit
under the Ministry's Undersecretary for Planning and has begun the staffing
process with senior level Ministry engineers. The Ministry of Land
Reclamation will very soon establish an equivalent unit (which will be a
condition of credit effectiveness, Section 5.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement). The Ministry of Agriculture has also expressed interest
1/  Land Reclamation is formally included in the Ministry of Development
and State Ministry of Housing and Land Reclamation. Within the
Ministry, land reclamation activities are self-contained and,
therefore, for operational purposes the administrative authority may be
informally referred to as the Ministry of Land Reclamation.



-14-
in establishing a PPU which could also qualify for financial assistance
under this credit (Sections 1.02(a) and 3.02(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The Ministries of Irrigation and Land Reclamation have
requested Bank technical assistance for full-time consultants and training
to build up their PPUs. In line with normal practice for technical
assistance projects, no separate staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Negotiations were held in Washington in the last week of April 1981, with
the Egyptian Government represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary,
Ministry of Economy. The designated heads of the PPUs in the Ministries of
Irrigation and Land Reclamation also participated in the negotiations and
related project discussions.
Objectives
44.      This Technical Assistance Credit is designed primarily to help
develop a cadre of staff trained in project preparation skills within the
agricultural ministries by providing them with the assistance and guidance
of internationally recruited consultants and staff training. The
consultants would work with their Egyptian counterparts on the various
aspects of project preparation, in order to create permanent institutional
capabilities for sector planning and project preparation in the assisted
ministries. The consultants would assist the Egyptian staff to identify
project priorities and prepare feasibility studies. As the capabilities of
the PPUs build up, the units should increasingly be able to prepare and
supervise the preparation of agricultural development projects suitable for
financing by the Bank and other external donors.
Project Description
45.      The project would:
(a) finance consulting firms--one main firm for each PPU--to
provide the primary institutional support to help develop the PPUs and to
work with the units' staff members to train them to prepare projects.  In
addition the project may finance short-term consultants, who would be
supervised by the PPUs, to undertake specific studies, including, for
example, design and engineering. The project would also finance the
foreign exchange cost of equipment and materials necessary for this
institutional support; the majority of these goods would be included in
each consultant's contract, although goods may be purchased separately by
the PPUs; and
(b) finance formal staff training in specialities required for
project planning and preparation. This would include in-country courses in
economic planning, engineering and financial analysis related to irrigation
and drainage, land reclamation (new land development), and agricultural
production. External fellowships would also be provided.



-15-
46.      Although feasibility studies to be undertaken by the PPUs have not
been specified in detail, with a view to maintaining flexibility in
implementation, an indicative list of work over the next five years which
appears to have the highest priority includes: the modernization of the
Esna Barrage command area, tubewell drainage, drainage in the West Delta,
the development of the Lake Burullus area, a land development master plan,
a resource survey for Ismailiya Canal command, and a land development and
resource survey for El Salaam Canal. However, work on these studies
directly by the PPUs would have to be phased with each ministry's
investment plan and schedule and the capacity of the PPUs to undertake the
work. The primary purpose of the main consulting firm will be to help
develop institutional capacity in the PPU to undertake this work, and not
simply to do the work itself. Therefore, as the PPU is building its
capacity, the PPU itself would be able to undertake only a limited amount
of project preparation.
Project Organization and Management
47.      The Government of Egypt would be the Borrower.  The PPU in the
Ministry of Land Reclamation will be located in the General Authority for
Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural Development. The PPU in the
Ministry of Irrigation will be located in the headquarters of the
Ministry. Both PPUs will have the primary responsibility for all the
pre-investment planning and preparation work done by their respective
ministries in the fields of irrigation and land reclamation. The PPUs are
closely linked to the policy and decision making authority of their
ministries and administratively removed from daily operational activities.
48.      The PPUs would be organized to include staff trained and working
in, among others, the following disciplines; agriculture, engineering,
economic and financial analysis, and social and environmental concerns. By
September 30, 1981, the Ministry of Land Reclamation will complete the
transfer of about 25 professionals to staff its PPU. The Ministry of
Irrigation has already started training staff members, and will have 20
professionals assigned to its PPU on a full-time basis by June 30, 1982.
Existing and future staff levels and targets for the PPUs would be studied
with their respective consulting firms (para. 50), and appropriate action
will be taken to achieve these targets. In view of the difficulty in Egypt
of attracting a sufficient number of experienced and skilled staff to the
public sector, it was agreed that adequate incentive arrangements would be
made (Section 3.02(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). There are
already a number of special measures a government department may take to
increase an employee's compensation; the ministries recognize the
difficulties of hiring highly skilled staff and are considering further
measures to attract more readily qualified and experienced staff.
49.      A scope of work and guidelines for operational procedures would be
agreed upon between the government and the Association (Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement). The PPUs would deal directly with the



-16-
Association on technical matters.  A Technical Assistance Credit Committee
(TACC) would be established under procedures satisfactory to IDA to
coordinate and approve requests for the use of the proposed Credit (Section
3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement). The TACC would be comprised of
one representative from each of the ministries participating in the
project, who would be the heads of the PPUs, and one representative from
the Ministry of Economy. The establishment of the TACC is a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The TACC would select an individual to act as Permanent
Secretary to the Committee, who would be responsible for (a) keeping track
of disbursement requests made by all the PPUs, (b) maintaining records of
all expenditures financed from the Credit, and (c) coordinating the
submission to the Association of semi-annual progress reports and annual
work plans.
Implementation
50.      Each Project Preparation Unit (PPU) will engage a consulting firm
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to provide
full-time institutional support (Section 3.05(a) of the Development Credit
Agreement). In this respect, the consulting firm will primarily (a) help
the PPU concerned develop the capacity to undertake pre-investment planning
and preparation, (b) assist in the organization of the PPU and help design
its training program, and (c) in particular, assist the PPU to identify
project priorities and assist in the preparation of feasibility studies.
The consulting firm would also assist the PPU to supervise project
preparation work being done for the PPU beyond this project. The staffing
of the consulting firm will be designed to meet the specific requirements
of the PPU. The PPU will ensure that appropriately trained and adequate
numbers of full-time PPU staff are available to participate in technical
work with each consultant team member.
51.      The PPU will invite proposals from consultants on the basis of a
short list and the assignment terms of reference to be approved by the
Association. A copy of the letter inviting firms to submit proposals would
be sent to the Association. Proposals would be evaluated and ranked on
their technical merits before considering the financial costs; price would
be a factor in the selection only after the firms' technical capabilities
are established. The Association would review and comment on the results
of the evaluation together with the selected firm's proposal and the final
negotiated contract would then be submitted to the Association for
approval. Although the main contracts for institutional support are likely
to be with foreign consultants, whenever possible local consultants would
be used for specific studies and supplementary work, either independently
or in collaboration with foreign firms. Only consulting firms (or
associations of consultants) combining expertise in both training and
agricultural development will be considered for the main contract.
52.      Each PPU will prepare and submit a work plan through the TACC for
the Association's review and agreement, describing the work and training to



-17-
be done, its objectives, estimated cost and financing plan and indicating
the areas in which consultants are needed (Section 3.04(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement). These work plans would be prepared on an
annual basis, and each PPU would prepare and furnish through the TACC to
the Association a semi-annual report detailing the progress achieved
(Section 3.04(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
53.      The major thrust of the institutional support and on-the-job
training would be to provide the PPUs' staff with a broad, conceptual
framework of multi-disciplinary analysis, as well as in specific skills, so
that, by the end of the project, the miniestries would possess a nucleus of
staff qualified to undertake and manage pre-feasibility and design work,
capable of determining the economic viability of individual sub-projects,
and able to establish priorities according to objective economic and
engineering criteria. They will also establish professional linkages with
consulting firms or other sources of expertise in order to be able to
obtain rapidly short-term specialists when needed.
54.      In addition to the work of the main consultant group, and
additional short-term consultants for specific studies, the Technical
Assistance Credit would provide for staff training in specialities and
skills directly related to project preparation and planning and which are
not readily available in Egypt, e.g. economic analysis, modern irrigation
and drainage systems, agricultural engineering, management techniques, and
regional planning. Given the existing lack of expertise in a number of
these areas, the consultants will assist the PPUs to design a detailed
training program with courses provided for the duration of the project. It
is expected that the 'first year's program will be submitted to the
Association for approval six months after the date of the consultants'
appointment. Training proposals would be included in the PPUs' work plan
and would be prepared and submitted to the Association on an annual basis
(Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
55.      It is anticipated that about 20-25 staff members from each of the
PPUs will receive individual overseas training for periods generally
ranging from 3-12 months. The emphasis will be on practical training for
immediate application and not on long-term academic courses. This training
will be supplemented by in-country group programs designed specifically for
Egyptian conditions, given either by the PPUs' own consultants or by
specialized training agencies such as the Bank's Economic Development
Institute.
Project Cost
56.      The overall cost of the project is estimated at $9.4 million
equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of about $6.9 million.
It is expected that, about thirty-eight staff years of consultant time
would be provided by the credit. Consultant rates are estimated to average
about $11,000 equivalent per staff month (including professional fees,



-18-
travel, per diem and local expenses). Training costs eligible for
reimbursement under the project would be determined according to the
procedure described in para 54. Funds for the start of new project
preparation activities would not be committed within six months of the
closing date of the credit unless as the Association shall otherwise agree.
Procurement
57.      Equipment to be procured under the project, totalling the
equivalent of about $900,000, would include office equipment, calculators,
vehicles and specialized equipment for mainly geological, soil and water
studies. It is expected that most of these goods would be procured under
consultant contracts over a period of three to four years for individual
studies in small batches and thus could not be suitably packaged for ICB
procurement. Individual packages are estimated to cost less than $50,000;
they would be procured under procedures which are acceptable to the
Association. As a result of the "open door policy" suppliers of this type
of equipment have wide representation in Egypt.
Disbursement
58.      The credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of five
years. The rate of disbursement is based on the Bank's disbursement
profile for technical assistance projects. IDA would disburse against 85
percent of the total cost of consultants, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for materials and
equipment. The credit would reimburse 100 percent of overseas training
expenditures, including fellowships, short courses and travel expenses.
Disbursements would be made against standard documentation.
Accounts and Auditing
59.      Separate project accounts, with appropriate subsidiary accounts
for each project component, would be maintained by the PPU in each
participating agency. These accounts, maintained according to sound
accounting principles consistently applied, would accurately reflect
receipts and expenditures undertaken in relation to the project and clearly
identify the goods and services procured.  These accounts would be
submitted to the TACC.  The accounts of each PPU would be amalgamated by
the TACC into a single project account and after being audited according to
procedures acceptable to the Association, submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (Sections 3.03(b) and 4.01(b) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
60.      Each Project Preparation Unit will be responsible for monitoring
the progress of the consulting firm and additional consultants working with
them. Each PPU would submit to the Association through the TACC a



-19-
semi-annual progress report highlighting activities undertaken in the
period under review, problems encountered and measures taken to resolve
them, as wiell as operating results (Section 3.07(b)(iii) of the Development
Credit Agreement). No later than six months after the Closing Date, a
Project Completion Report would be submitted to IDA, which would cover the
execution and-operation of the project, its costs and benefits, the
performance of the various participants in executing their respective
activities, and the extent to which project objectives wTere attained
(Section 3.07(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
61.      A benefit of the proposed project in the short-term would be to
assist in the identification and coordination of a pipeline of agricultural
projects potentially suitable for external financing. In the longer term,
this project would help build the capability of staff within the
agricultural ministries to plan and prepare projects, using economic, as
vTell as engineering, criteria; and it would introduce broader sectoral
considerations in project identification and planning. The project would
eventually reduce the government's dependency on foreign consultants for
project preparation. The project could also help to foster a local
consulting industry, by providing an opportunity for joint-ventures of
foreign and local consultants in project preparation.
62.      There are a number of risks of poor project implementation.  These
may be summarized as follows: (i) the shortage of professional staff with
the skills required for rigorous project preparation to act as counterparts
to the expatriate consultants, and the lack of incentives provided by the
ministries to attract the most qualified people; (ii) the historical lack
of coordination and communication among the agricultural ministries
necessary to ensure an integrated approach to agricultural project
preparation to which each PPU should contribute; and (iii) the experience
of past Bank agricultural projects' training components, including the
implementation of, in particular, the Nile Delta Drainage II project, the
Agricultural Development project, and Agroindustries, where there appears
to have been little progress on the projects' training components.
63.      The project addresses the major risks in the following ways.  The
government has agreed to assign a substantial nucleus of full-time staff to
one PPU by September 1981 and the second PPU by June 1982 and has also
agreed to take steps to provide adequate incentives (para 48). The TACC
should encourage better coordination and communication wTithin, as well as
among, the agricultural ministries. A carefully designed and monitored
training program, as well as an agreed staffing program, wTould provide over
the project implementation period a sufficient number of adequately trained
professional staff to establish viable planning and preparation units.
These measures, together with clearly defined responsibilities and agreed
procedures for the selection and appointment of consultants (para 51) are
considered adequate to address the project's risks.



-20-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.      Features of the Draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of
effectiveness would be the establishment of a Technical Assistance Credit
Committee; and the establishment of a PPU in the Ministry of Land
Reclamation (Section 5.01 of the Draft Credit Agreement).
66.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - Recommendation
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moheen Qureshi
Attachments
May 20, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21-                                                           Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGI.S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - HDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1001.4                                                     HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      29.6                                 MOST RBCENT         NORTH AFRICA 4            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNC PER CAPITA (US@)                  100.0       160.0      460.0                818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     298.0        275.0     463.0                 545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAI STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      25.9        33.3      39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37. 9        42. 2     44. 0                 45. 7                    63. 4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       62.0
SATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                 ..     101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2105
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0         33.0      40.0                  40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0    1343.0                 598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.0        42.1      40.2                  44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         55.0         54. 7     56.3                  52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0 .       3.2       3.5                   3.5                      '.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.5       2. 2                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                               6.0         3.6       3.0                   4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     45.0         39.0      37.0                  41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0      13.0                  13.7                      8.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8/c       3.0       2.3                   2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       206.0     187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           9.0      21.1                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0         99.0      91.0                  93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0       104.0     109.0                 103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           73.0        71.0      75.0-                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        17.0      19.0                  17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0        23.0      18.0                  17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BlRTH (YEARS)    46.0         51.0      54.0                  54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..     108.0                    *-                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                               ..           ..      66.0                  62.5                     65.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      88.0                  82.9                     80.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0                  45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                    ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                    ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0      1910.0    1065.0/d              4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2730.0/d    1640.D/d  1150.0/d               1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             460.0       462.0     470.0                 635.5                   480.3
URBAN                               ..        290.0     250.0
RURAL                                ..      2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.2
URBAN                               4.8          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                               ..             ..     1.8
UREAN                               1.6          ..        .
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      45.7
URBAN                              37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      19.0



-22-                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICNTED AVERACfS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
MIDDLE INCOKE
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST       tATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66. 0       69.0      72. 0                76.4                     99.7
MALE                 80.0        84.0      87.0                 92.2                    101.0
FEMALE               52.0        53. 0     56.0                 59.9                     99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 16.0        32.0      46.0                 33.3                     34.4
KALE                 23.0        44.0      57.0                 41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                9.0        21.0      34.0                 24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  22.0        19.0      18.0                  9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      40.0                 39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0      29.0                 25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..      43.5                 39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       7. 5                15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        58.0       132.0     137.0                139.0                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        16.0      17.0                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESrT) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        22.0      21.0                 22.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANSNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3. 0       2.0        ..                  2.8
LABOR PORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    7481.4       9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3         7.2       6.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             58.4.       54.4      51.0                 47.0                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2        18.8      26.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9        28.0      28.0                 26.1                     31.5
MALE                                53.2        51.5      51.3                 47.4                     48.9
FEMALE                               4. 2        4. 1      4. 3                 4.7                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1. 6      1.6                  1.9                     1. 4
ISCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCiBE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 5/e     17.4Lt_f  22.0 0/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS  44. 4e      42.8/e f  49.2.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e       7.Oe f   5. .I..
LOWESr 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.$j.1     18.71e.f  14.81g.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..     120.0                262.5
RURAL                                -          *-      86.0                140.4                   190.8
EST7MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     163.0                202.1                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      72.0                122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      21.0                 22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      25.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
L    1950-55; ]d Reglatered, not all practing in the country; /e Rural expenditures; /f 1964-65; A  National.
1974-75.
Most recenc estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979. all other data are as of April, 190.
October, 1980



-23-                                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
IEFINITI0NS Ot _0O551 IealCAy)fsI
Noe  lbs h th  dat  ae- drawe tnetesgnral   ugdteer  eneoelatde  ad I l lbte   ceo    alo                              .e.e that th.y nayno  beIntr
satoo'.llooonarahle  ecase  f the lac  of.t.. ardced.e..t..o...r  coneptIsedIb  it feret'llctr re Incellosl    the  aa   The Ydaarenn-
thol,ee,  -oefoltndenotbr oren   ora-rltde , led Icats treda, and ot..atartett                     ...,eie  ..t.eejo      -eenr  b-ete .... -oseen.
the  efeent  geate  re  11, the  -ac  tsty ru  of rhe s-b]ecn ran..ery ted  l2 aIoteyIrt.,n omwa  high-rneee  aem    har the  a-rcy groap
toel -oto  alafilnltlts). Is the refernc  genap deta the seegnee pepuletiee nlighted arcncceeefar et_ ltdiltstn, end ehte  ealy eDen a
leas  hal  cEj  the  -natele  lea  strapbe  dt  fa.ta..drs                 SInce the  -..r.g  attscre   nepe f... e       tedchne  dped.ornbaalabilt  af
dataa-d lansntrs    ncss-otbe-rcsdnrlaIgfeaesaoef                                      dinoean                  The.Ibnenreear    elatl  .toprlgheas
ot   itecditetn-statIasan-g hheosr..ryet.dr-e-srtc     grasps.
lolescal- latteaa of egrtcltatalarea cad   = iaprnly or peraneenly        toPsitbenruelsasn   - ta puaItla-  ilolded by eanber of p tte
f.. ..o.... .a-oer,-etc sdtthc  egrddc-nr salle fajl-o   l9fT data.                       ... eaend feale gt-d-aan  cornet,.. prcical. ....... and n.eittttetcaen
Ctt PEt C a1cc lItil - GNP Per capita esto                                                    abac, and Iro.all dinided by chefs r-ap-etie esber ef boepilt1 beds
olat     . ho  . sane .enersion  -ehbt  an-tld TAnutas  fi,f-T    baai. 1s    1960,         a-nlable in poblie and pccegenerl1 ncd epeilaised bespta  an.d er-
1011,and  flhdoa.                                            beilitolee   enter.  eneltal  are ealf hbsate peeencir                 ctfe
banleaatone  hyslfan.tsemllbcechte p-erdieg prIncipally c__ceftl
LNERtLo  IISm fTIOdcPEt CAPIIA - nAtl   ceopta   fcnsrllerf1col                               cr   ere orinclded,i cRatel hespatls, hnc-.             eiashat  sdeetn
aedloole,  ncclou  aeatl  asatdhyra, rclaredfeobtinet                            _cetet  ret peraaneatly enI.fed by s phynficia  (bat by a -sdical -esietat,
It ,   kotrn  of_al eq         Pale  pe  capIta; 1960, i9TO, ned l9ft                 caa,sditfa, etc.  wIcih after In-patient  -ccndetie  and penelde
de.licdage  of.sanaltaiitt1f-                                                                                                  el.   F ner ecttticetr.  purpese  rbsa  pint-
teleI Iniude gsts  pIncpal general ed specilied bhspiet.1  nedera
POtULAlIcN le  01TA. STATISTICS                                                               boepitcle local or t-ra  heepea11%ned sdirn1 ned materniry cete..
fTal P...acnn  01-er          Illoe  - us at Jc1y 1; 1960. 1970 ..ed 1978                 Adwtnslnes eBcdsli  ed - T.,s  o_hI    fanaet. telo dicobhrgee
data.                                                                                     frau hosyltnsdi1t,ded by the te_ber  ft beds.'
dltere    deflnec-  of eba- treat nay affect c-arbilty at data                  enueSIN
__ tr   100   n   918 dat.                                                 A-err lee ui.f HE...eheld  -rr-c etlntleldf    t-tl. orbn..mdnesl
foon oIt yeer 2P0    ore  oylcr   rIsele    rebased us198                           aed their  al   ael.        eorere  lage    yccsy  -n  be Iccinded Ic
octl .ppult.. by age ned Is    e              .car  o talt  ied fertIlIty ees       she ha...sheld tar staIstical puep-aes.
0cc fctonocernateen  cr antalit   r tes esec   of.  trelnses-                hea ccet of  remote oar rn-ertl. urban,and rura  - A-erge u.
ecolfrtoocaeosf     "hc  ..tat    Itcencyspeapc   ear                             ec    ernoe  Perroe.itlnhtadsaccpecaecea
-oal, so  f.inalslfa   -nrccec  -tahliaelcgat 70.5 yeses.  Th. pats-                   d-eIllega. respelttiely.  I,,elitngne-1ldece-teee   ststsraad
necara fc  frtIlIty  cat  also bans three 1ael-  tste  declIne  It..eoc-pled Pacts.
Eac  -osoca  as thea anigoed  -ceafthes  tine c-baealone. of maAliy                     Ienter lena dE llgnate          lectrIciIc   Itlsegqateea
etc hoochn cas inId efua  cc-th  dsas  cae   cdlcbagsrcsrr-                         fll
colts  ocatar.  ThI  Is acyleed nly  afterlferilIcyh rate  deee  ta-             gdfat-   Enebleen  ratIos            i.,
therp   1c-ce      len   ef -cit  -e-ep-d-ti-e case, thee each gaee-tier             tA' ar                             led heel - s.cel. cain and feml-rn    acl   aead itse
Iftleetetat she bste of .th  prJiratd chtcecerltto  atf the popolatiee                    prImr  schal-ge yaclnhe; narnaly I eidselde   gd6i
cc thetn   00.adth   aeofdcIe  ffr   Itt   et o.rplee-                                    ears1 .. bu  fdose   fo    fretle eb cf  peccry-daetes far..
tro  leon                                                                                 counrIe  ath  anls_ satdutoasetn daec                  eey ilsdll  percent1
Vest rtat cesr   -duacc  Inrahd-Tets   heaalcr ohlta                                     lc   ctppl   c   te   csone.-           he oftcel  ceel  t.
hen hseocachel.        dteeli.rsfhcl-tctli,ylea-dt. lr-plcestdngahet_ seeeer
I.erato                                                                                   y-esbit ddcaleroirat   land    fu  yearsdof apprte yeIder   etrc
Petn.  En.aglol-ur    Iac  - torhed   anTh  -Ant  for sr.lcn...uryl                          ecetuded.,   J
o-h-cly         ;.I.                                        .. lct`ei  rolcnc   reca                                       of     ..ccdro)l-  hoatto:al.Instuln
Poo.tclc  aenscctreloooec  -OllOsa(IlI  een  .netle-ea  IN            trlcdecehece ,ledstla,  r  tbe  casen  aeddpeat  ldeec
hiern,adrace   ftssetd.sc    n  eceege    tedterer-                 d relycndep        Etae_e cfe-oesr  asetolo
heat populat late  tar 19Sf-tI, 1960-TO,                                         12and  .e..-. .;caerdnpAldteg..etein.
Ptst lo   rehct   rretI-ubsIna    rebrtsc   ra   os                                         dl   tesrrt  Icecec)   LItrate   ddi   fablef  ten  en fnttef
laccoe  ear 150-tO   cOIl-l, end1900-8.                                         asaecceeaga etcansi  dalt  op...tnf  ageI15 yeee-ne drer
Crdeiuchlae  0c  cesenl  bgeCuildlic  hart14  perl) elnu ind at sid1-yset`.-                                                                           i~   .rt   .dp
p-i-;aItns;  196,171, ed 1978 deta.                                                   tPsl_ft1lE
Crd  es   ae  retosnl     nuldah  per. gbasser o..f  tl-yeeid                              Peeasr  Cas  ce  tocasd  erlntof    teate  ar -eh.pctis mter
Pc.laat  iN     11,  e  1978. data                                                     cats78  seet-ing lessta-  ll   enc    nlde   nuace   ere   e
Irn    trdctunac--     erg   cuabr o          da gere-hsa   sill heael p.p              litternd nehiolles.d.,d -1.
tsec  el'hlRteiea-Pers  loh rceo  at Aearcladeouth    l-psrcth ot..      of iaryied          eonreablehdteaI
Io.c.o.cl  E-heat  -age g ( .h-A   years)t d-htone  h ..b-...o . ellbeest TiOclec   Iecoosdcc,ltaf-  Orelor   c   endntt
olselOns    csn   ge500                                                                     eea   stper .b..seed potdlnice  eAolde  ael leases. I..rcenr
yrodseecoh of all .foo   osdtt.  -tadci-necadsse  end feedli.          gcd..        lIcal   derete;d. prca-l  naeI recardleg geerl  no          I I bin  eeie
-5oneasda  ya  bs.Csndtled ae   yst g-et.ed (e.g.-sagrtaed                             s   e'al'  fI   persa   ec                    lestk
tao ore  se laded.  Aggte5t  peodeceen cf ea  itoethry Is bsd- an .          R-ickes  al  der ttg~ eA. yar.t.d    dTagVas  fc.c rbse.-It e sa
oaeeoolsocage   rodscc ptce negha                                                                       tbi-O   lf,  ..17.dna   ndmhieris
per tatD NIRTONaibesple   opiedcet   rdtls   no    lee                                   tt.. f,aba !Enct  (teusads  -p Otai-e ti fy ytot  rests, --stludl -g
hooetad lond196-65  190,  cd.077dst               .             fld            lsiegias pero- ceg aJ,.t .aa  labor fcr_e  1990..  190sd.98detad
tot .aylt   s e.ry  b-ior Cele  drssioa  daf-  t  ryllegreet. nfg pegrcep.ce         Indnc  (eetd       ao  feeceIfi    P   ireactag.  tisyctn,cafatr
pos   rtI,cI  al-h  10 graeibl  sde     sn  is sessle(:g.obese. stand-           ace -ty  ae  ace- nopae  an itotl  ca, -- an.dfem le lehob cces
urs elnrtangthes.e of7  gas  fttad--ecen   T  rm of                            peceeagsbl nsa, sleandtIad    ydpiatic.. of alisses- pmtey
In-d-pcetrasa   snrae  -cc  he t. d  p96        po6 ed by9 tO0 I  the97   ThIrd       196,il70  aed  91dt.Teear   Ltp-IIale   ae   slai
Fe idrodStny   C016,  90adp97dae.g-stsescr tdh   ealno,fn   og  ietre.Afe   et
frsaeml  adplas   ngrm    etdy  lb-I, 1910 atd. 1970 daa.               feseslnedec  osela-.  th    -r. aE ofipaplalac under p15 a.           adar
age  t-o  1-4  hee-e  oclde  In this. aglesclp  ta  aei  derlp n  tu
Need 1~~~~~~~~ f..d                                                                                                  t.   r.at  osehld
at bIrth. 1590, 1970 and lOTS data. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      I60,197  -
at age yet . thoosnad lin  h'Ah.                                                       techtasate"   "     . I   t, 198d.Aeitl ase.Itm   .olft)crcrc)-aes e.sa 
Aonao hae s1thr(-ce.a.arlsol     an . sIes  andy ceiah -.  g.                         Absaee pnec  lecce  lennl Is tha   pet-cse lenel bele1 lb.le  afmIIma
ncrorrnludesAtreated surface  -oaLsberef unteated bst aece.camtyated..ffeedabee
eaerschn  te  frsL roece  beeeia  stgs   edeat ey(e)alt -ensasedesl-ennetogeecftnInten 1ene-  fEll rec tati    d  ...a ad rurl
otreentsges nf sheEr neepacecos peptlstlens Elce .ae ..e.t     ..Piprbile     Pural  ratre -net L       ecb et f-ena  te ea-hidc  seag eget
tooctocottaodpeclaacedetmoecheeOc  eter   rnaidayh                             esenlceefbeonr. Oralnet                                lsdemeeae
.cetkea sbIng   ..t i  teasedIe aecen c  chaty~,        trut.d           b. Irrlrs        lniihdatrees  fehdee  cot  ofitIgI  ur-lllban  fteen
feil'  et rfneeds.
dlaecalnapeccategs atthstreerctld   prolt--ptsetmde-tsset  n t                                                                 etld sae  tise
pcscn   ccuer the. chleccaca aed. d fpnn -.1 ntht I         2cbnstresmatt.etetn-  anlyt  and-t PrNacea  eers
of ho sac eacrece ead nests~nset h riear r- p-Iatteh eysc6O190    ~`~7 at theses el                                          , tohat Oi
ott crrlsa  rd a ellerlenseIathians.



24                                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 41 million (mid-1979)
GNP per capita: US$460
Amount (million)                         A N N U A L  G R O W T H  R A T E S()
US$ at current
prices)                     A C T U A L                      EST.           P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976     1977      1978     1979     1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product /a          17745.0       10.4     10.3      10.9     11.9       8.2       9.0       8.3      6.5      6.9       6.9
Agriculture                    3844.0        6.3      1.6     -3.0       5.5      3.9        2.2      2.1       2.3      2.6       2.7
Industry                       3237.0       10.6      4.8      9.8      12.3      6.5        9.8      9.2       9.7      9.5      9.8
Petroleum                      2728.0       39.4     52.3     55.2      22.0     10.3       11.6     12.8       3.4      6.0       5.7
Services                       7263.0       9.2      11.6      9.4      12.0     10.2       10.8      8.8       8.3      8.0       7.8
Consumption                        15010.0       -3.8      8.3      11.0     11.2      4.5       12.0     11.2       8.9      8.0       7.1
Gross Investment                    5450.0       54.2     -8.2       9.3     -2.4       9.4       9.6   -  8.6       7.5      6.7       5.7
Exports of GNFS                     5585.0       27.2     30.8       9.0      3.0       5.8      12.4       7.9      4.5      5.8       5.8
Imports of GNFS                     8300.0       16.0     -5.3       2.5      4.2      8.9       18.7      11.8      9.2      7.9       5.2
Gross National Saving               3885.0      133.0     74.8      25.7     17.4    -13.4         -         -        -         -        -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                     50.6     55.9      60.5     65.8      81.0     100.0        -        -        -         -
Exchange Rate /b                                  2.15     1.97      1.75     1.54      1.43      1.43       -        -        -         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)                    Averaae Increase (2) at constant rices
(at current prices)                      1965 Prices  1975 Prices          1980/81 Prices
1960      1970      1975     1979   1984/85          1960-1970    197C-1975      1975-1979    FY81-FY85
Gross Domestic Product
-    Agriculture                      27.9       25.3     28.2      21.7     16.2              4.7           5.1           1.9           2.4
-    Industry & Petroleum             23.7       26.1     25.4     33.6      37.0              3.0          2.6           17.5           8.2
-    Services                         42.9       40.8     42.8      40.9     41.7              6.3          4.4           10.8           8.2
Consumption                           87.3       90.6     90.4      84.6     86.2              4.4           8.0           6.8           8.8
Gross Investment                      13.3       13.9     32.3      30.7     27.4              5.8           4.2           1.8           7.1
Export of GNFS                        19.5       14.2     21.5      31.5     30.9              4.9         22.8           11.6           6.0
Import of GNFS                        20.1       18.8     44.1      46.8     44.5              1.1          13.5           2.5           8.5
Gross National Saving                 12.9        7.7     10.9      21.9     17.9              7.2          17.2          22.2            -
As X of GDP
1960      1970      1975     1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                       18.5       21.3     34.1      37.2
Current Expenditure                   21.5       22.0     39.9      33.9
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)            -3.0       -0.7     -5.8       3.3
Capital Expenditure                   11.8       11.1     16.6      23.0
Foreign Financing                       -          -      16.0       4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   FY81-FY85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (x)                    4.5        5.0     11.9       7.6
GNP per capita growth rate (x)         1.9        2.7      8.7       4.9
Energy consumption growth rate (X)/c 14.9        14.9     13.2      11.4
ICOR       -                                       -       3.6       4.0
Marginal savings rate                   -          -       0.46      0.15
Import elasticity                      0.9        1.7      0.9       1.1
/a   GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
/b   Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
7W   Electricity only.
April 22, 1981



25
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population% 41 .iiliun (mid-1979)
GNP per capita:  Ub*460
Amount (million)                     Annual Growth Rate (x) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
USt at current
prices)                    A C T U A L                       EST.              P R O J E C T E D
1979      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82       82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports              4024         27.2     19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8       6.6      3.2       5.4       5.3
-  Primary 1/                      546      -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8        4.5       5.2      1.4       2.0       2.6       3.0
-  Manufactures I/                 168       24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9    -29.6        9.2      6.1       6.1       6.7       6.7
-  Petroleum                     2860        72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1      22.6     12.1       7.5       2.8       5.6       5.4
Merchandise Imports               7336        14.1     -5.0      -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0     11.7       9.1       7.7       5.0
-  Food                          1677        27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8      -7.0      21.2     12.8       8.8       6.2       2.3
-  Petroleum                       243      -34.2    -23.3    -53.3         2.7    -11.8       17.7      6.1       2.7       1.5       0.6
-  Macninery and Equipment       2846        59.5      24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6     14.3      10.4       9.4       7.8       6.8
-  Others                        2570        17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5       0.2     20.0      12.9       9.6       9.2       5.6
Prices
Export Price Index                           51.5      49.9      52.3      52.9      '6.0    100.0    112.0    124.0    137.0    152.0
Import Price Index                           60.6      63.5      70.4      76.1     87.9    100.0    110.0    120.0    130.0    140.0
Terms of Trade Index                         85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0    102.0    103.0    105.0    108.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)             at constant 1980/81 prices
1970     1975      1979    84/85         1975/79      FY81/FY85                                    -
Exports                                                                  9.8           4.8
Primary _/               64.2      28.3     13.6      11.8          -4.1            2.4
Petroleum                 4.8     25.2      71.0      76.3          26.8           4.9
manufacturesl/           31.0      46.7      15.4     11.9         -15.3            6.6
Imports                                                                  1.9           7.6
Food                     13.4      23.6     22.9      26.0            2.9           6.3
Petroleum                 8.2      6.9       3.3       3.0         -24.5            2.3
Machinery                23.4      23.7     38.8      37.7          17.2            8.1
Others                   55.0     45.8      35.0      33.3          -3.1            8.4
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)       Developing Countries (M)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (x)
1965     1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965     1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0     17.0      14.0        18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0      1.0       4.0
Primary                       29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0     11.0                          1.0       3.0
Manufactures                  19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0               4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                          55.0      42.0      65.0        18.0      25.0      14.0                -         -        4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
April 22, 1981



V 26
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, lXTERL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million Us at current prices)
EST.                 P R O J E C T E D
1974    1975  - 1976    1977    1978    1979   1980/1    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
BALANCE OF PAYMENTb
Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services            2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    8207          9835        11315       13160       15275
- of which merchandise f.o.b.                      1818    1875    2169    2346    2558    4024    6007          7160         8185        9550      11125
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor Services         -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11388         -13920       -16590      -19360     -21965
- of which merchandise c.i.f.                    -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336   -9998         -12225       -14575      -16995     -19270
Net Factor Income                                    70     122      413     472    1098    1143    1412         1650         1865        1980        2020
Net Private Transfers                                42      90       87      63       54      50      --         --           _-          -_         __
Current Account Balance                          -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -1769          -2435        -3410       -4220      -4670
Private Direct Investment                            87     225      444     477      387     710      964       1130         1320        1510       1715
MLT Loans (Net)                                      69     270      647     730    1141    1509    1826         2370         2635        2560        2500
- official                                          -21     210      490     803    1028    1072    1615         1685         1870        2040       2195
- private                                            90      60      157     -73      113     437      211        687          765         520        305
Otner Capital (Net) 4/                             1393    1907      191     339    -181    -599    -300         -330         -360         355         455
Change in Reserves                                   47      24       81     -90       14     -98      721        735          185         205           0
International Reserves 1/                           516     678      642     880    1106    1098    1815         2550         2735        2940       2940
- of which gold                                     102     102      102     104      104     104      --         __          __          __         __
Reserves as Honths Imports 3/                       1.7     1.8      1.7     2.1      2.2     1.8      2.2        2.5          2.3         2.1         1.8
EXTEIMNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                2227    3612    2305    3349    2812    2329    2962          3720         4375        4620       4870
Official Grants                                1303    1076       792     445     345      110     350         600          735        805         870
Concessional Loans                               120    1444     668    1855    1600       996    1461        1420         1475        1530       1545
- DAC                                            55      199     421      591     799      833    1198        1190         1260       1320        1330
- OPEC                                            3    1142      171      137      93       43      68          20            5           0          0
- IDA                                            12       49      42       42      45       55      55          85          110        105          80
- others                                          50      54       34    1085      663      65      140        125          100         105        135
Non-Concessional Loans                          804    1092      845    1049      867    1223    1151         1700         2165       2285        2455
- official export crecits                       379      639     214       24      44       50      97         120          170        185         210
- IBED                                           -        14      36       37      57      118     163         185          225        295         370
- other multilateral                             -         6      -       256      18        5      34          55           65          80         95
- private                                       425      433     595      732     748    1050      857        1340         1705       1725        1780
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                     2830    4830    5770    8090    9920   11330   13537         15310        17210       18970      20600
- official                                     1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11423          12510        13640       14880      16210
- private                                       840      940    1050    1290    1420    1860    2114          2800         3570       4030        4390
Undisbursed Debt                                   1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629    5558          5950         6175        6480       6900
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                               517     595      665    1099    1211    1040    1658         2030         2490        2935       3400
- interest                                       70      115      111     340     387      236     645         685          750         870       1035
- payment as % exports 2/                        21%    21.6S   16.81   23.91   21.8S   14.61   16.3          16.8         18.0        18.4       18.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                  6.3     4.7      5.1     5.1      4.6     6.4      6.5         7.3         7.3         7.3         7.2
- official
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)               17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5           17.4        17.3        16.2        16.2
- official
- private
1/ Foreign assets of Centrsl Bank.
21 Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3   Merchandise only.
4/ Including commercial banks operations and residual balance of payments financing.
April 22, 1981



27
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved       Borrower       Purpose                                        less cancellations
Numbers           FY                                                                  Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
La  243-UAR         60            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                     56.5        --           --
Cr  181-UAK         70            UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                        --      26.0           --
Cr  284-UAR         72            ARE          Railways I                                 --      30.0           --
Cr  393-UAR         73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                       --      36.0          2.4
Cr  412-UAR         73            ARE          Development Industrial Bank 1/             --      15.0           --
Cr  423-UAR         74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation              --      18.5          2.1
Cr  437-UAR         74            ARE          Population I                                --      5.0           --
Cr  484-UAR         74            ARE          Talkha Fertilizer                          --      20.0           --
Cr  524-EGT         75            ARE          Ag./Ind. Imports                           --      35.0           --
Ln 1062-EGT         75            ARE          Ag./Ind. Imports                         35.0        --           --
Ln 1064-EFT         75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                50.0        --         13.5
Ln 1085-EGT         75            ARE          Tourah Cement                            40.0        --          2.1
Ln 1098-EGT         75            ER           Railways II                              37.0        --          7.0
Cr  548-EGT         75            ARE          Telecoummuniations I                       --      30.0           --
Cr  576-EGT         76            ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/          --      25.0          0.2
Ln 1239-EGT         76            APA          Alexandria Port                          45.0        --         27.1
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/   76             ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                 50.0        --         33.7
Cr  637-EGT         76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                    --      40.0         13.6
Ln 1285-EGT         76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                  10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292-EGT         76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                   52.0        --         14.6
Ln 1369-EGT         77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                  56.0        --         31.3
Cr  681-EGT         77            ARE          Education I                                --      25.0          4.0
Cr  719-EGT         77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                     --      27.0          7.2
Ln 1439-EGT         77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   27.0        --         27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/   77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   12.0        --         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT         77            EEA          Regional Electrification                 48.0        --         15.1
Ln 1456-EGT         77            ARE          Industrial Imports                       70.0        --         18.8
Ln S-005-EGT        77            ARE          Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.           2.5        --          0.7
Ln 1482-EGT         78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                    100.0        --         29.9
Cr  774-EGT         78            ARE          Telecommunications II                      --      53.0         51.0
Ln 1533-EGT         78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III          40.0        --         12.0
Cr  830-EGT         78            ARE          Agricultural Development                   --      32.0         26.8
Cr  831-EGT         78            ARE          Urban Development                          --      14.0         13.6
Cr  850-EGT         79            ARE          Population II                              --      25.0         20.9
Cr 868-EGT          79            ARE          Education II                               --      40.0         33.3
Ln S-14-EGT         79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance              11.0       --          3.3
Cr  909-EGT         79            ARE          Tourism                                    --      32.5         32.1
Ln 1732-EGT         79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                         75.0        --         45.2
Cr  935-EGT         79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power           --      37.0         36.5
Ln 1733-EGT         79            EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0           --        102.0
Cr  988-EGT         80            ARE          Agroindustries                             --      45.0         44.9
Ln 1804-EGT         80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV           50.0        --         45.1
Ln 1837-EGT         80            ARE          Textiles II 4/                           69.0        --         69.0
Ln 1842-EGT         80            ARE          MIDB                                     30.0        --         30.0
Cr 1024-EGT         80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                     --      50.0         34.4
Ln 1849-EGT         80            ARE          Pulp and Paper 4/                        50.0        --         50.0
Ln 1886-EGT         80            EEA          Power III 4/                              7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052-EGT         80            EEA          Power III 4/                               --    120.0         120.0
Cr 1069-EGT         81            ARE          Education III                              --.    40.1          40.1
Ln 1298-EGT         81            EGPC         Petroleum Exploration 4/                 25.0        --         25.0
Cr 1083-EGT         81            ARE          New Land Development 4/                    --      80.0         80.0
Cr 1111-EGT         81            ARE          Fish Farming 4/                            --      14.0         14.0
Totals                                                                                1150.0    915.1        1208.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                65.3       0.9
Total now outstanding                                                                 1084.7    914.2
Amount sold                                            7.5
Of which has been repaid                               7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        1084.7    914.2
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan.
31 Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of *35.0.
4/ Not yet effective.



28
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                 Type of Business                           Loan       Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                            4.80         .835        5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                 0.43       0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                  20.0        3.00         23.0
1979        Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                    5.97       1.52          7.49
Company
1979        Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                    1.93         .55         2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                         30.0          -          30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist       Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                 4.41         .857         5.267
67.54       6.922        74.462



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Construction and remodelling of some 1,640 km of open drains have
been completed. Of 300,000 feddans in the project area, tile drainage has
been completed in about 230,000 feddans. Progress on this activity was
slow due mainly to poor construction planning and management by the public
sector contractors. The other outstanding activity is the construction of
two pumping stations: civil works are more than 75% complete and the
pumping equipment has been delivered at site for erection. EPADP's current
program shows project completion by June 1982, and accordingly, the
Government is likely to request an extension of the current closing date.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards mid-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A decree, effective in July 1980,
establishes a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways
inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff
salaries.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date; April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and about $24.8 million was
disbursed as of March 31, 1981.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date; December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has had major problems, which are now being addressed. The
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is making very good
progress. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Overall progress on construction of 1602 km of open drains
covering 500,000 feddans is 62% complete. Foundation work is in progress
on one pumping station included in the Project. Installation of tile
drains has just commenced and is complete only in 8,000 feddans. The
progress on this activity has been slow due mainly to the time taken by the
public sector contractors for import of plastic pipe laying machines and
setting up of cement collector pipe making workshops. Also the area of the
project was adjusted by exchanging 22,000 feddans of previously tiled area
with an equivalent non-tiled area of the Upper Egypt I Project.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope and delay of civil works and increase in cost of
construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No
difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement
the companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now
been overcome and both companies have developed effective project
implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting
initial delays in procurement. However, about 95 percent of the contracts
for machinery and equipment have now been awarded, and the balance is
expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The awrard has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
has started. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts have been
completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts are now
being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being made on
meter replacement and reduction of waste, and AWA's regularly submitted
reports reflect good general progress.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricula
and staff development, and technical assistance are essentially complete.
About 95 percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by June 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction of open drains is on schedule, with completion of
some 380,000 feddans out of the total area of 815,000 feddans. Progress is
satisfactory on renovation of the equipment of two pumping stations. Of
the other four new pumping stations, the foundation work has been commenced
on three. The contractors for the installation of tile drains are in the
process of importing plastic pipe laying machines and other equipment.
This activity is complete only in 4,000 feddans out of the project area of
400,000 feddans.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, about $51.2 million has been disbursed and
about $56.0 million committed. Utilization of the loan proceeds has been
slow mainly because of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector
firms.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
and engineering wvork for pilot beneficiation plant.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $28.Q million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement action under this credit is well advanced. Bid
evaluation reports on the two remaining items (mobile exchanges and
electronic PABXs) are awaited.
Cr. No. 830-EC-T - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed.
Implementation is being reviewyed to determine wrhether basic project
objectives have been met. Improvements in institutions and project
management are under consideration.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Projecti US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been progress in the staffing of the project unit, but
its technical staff needs to be augmented. Progress in implementation of
some of the shelter components and studies has improved; however, there are
delays in some of the other components. Measures to resolve the problems
are under discussion with the Government.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected. Of the 153
sites, construction on about one third has been completed, and the
remainder should be completed by September 1981. Progress in implementing
the software components is seriously delayed partly due to managerial
problems. Measures to be taken by the Government following discussions
with a recent review mission should expedite progress in the training, IEC
and home visiting programs.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Of the 23
new institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another five will
be completed by mid-1981 and 12 will be completed in 1983. One will now be
situated in an existing building. Of the 36 institutions to be
rehabilitated, 14 will be completed by mid-1981; construction work on the
remainder will begin in 1982. All equipment is under procurement with
contracts already signed for about 50 percent. All technical assistance
has been contracted.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment has been completed
and erection is proceeding at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock
have been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for
pre-feasibility study are being discussed with government.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started. Procurement is underway for
electricity, telecommunications, Luxor Hotel Training School and Luxor air
terminal components. Planning and Design studies are under-way for the
roads, water, and museum components. Disbursements are running at 50% of
appraisal forecasts, and this percentage is expected to rise by the end of
1981.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date; January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The three studies included
under the project, the exploration and the energy pricing studies as well
as the financial management study are underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EC-T - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment were issued in
December 1980. Bid opening dates for major equipment packages are set for
May/June 1981.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1985
The contract for construction of the Cairo abattoir has been
awarded, and the bids for construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being
evaluated. Disbursements under the credit component through three
participating banks have been slow, pending clarification of on-lending
interest rates by the Egyptian Government.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $25.9 million had been committed and $4.9 million
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date; (Not yet effective); Closing Date; September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
The project became effective on December 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Contractor has been working since April 1980 and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The credit became effective on April 16, 1981.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Effectiveness action underway.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1l11-EGT - SDR 11.0 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Cr. No. llll-EGT - SDR 11 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway.



-38-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        15 months (January 1980 - March 1981)
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:   Ministry of Irrigation
Ministry of Land Reclamation
IDA
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:    January 1980
(d)  First IDA mission to review           November 1980
project:
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:    Not Applicable
(f)  Completion of Negotiations            April 1981
(g)  Planned Date of Effectivenessz        December 1981
Section II: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i)   the establishment of a Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in the
Ministry of Land Reclamation (para. 43).
(ii)  the establishment of a Technical Assistance Credit Committee (TACC)
(para. 49).
2.  Other conditions:
(i)   The PPU will submit annually through the TACC for the Association's
agreement a work plan describing the work to be done, its objective,
estimated cost and financing plan and indicating the areas in which
consultants are needed to carry out such work (para. 52).



-39-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) The PPU will submit to the Association through the TACC a
semi-annual progress report highlighting its activities during the
review period (para. 52).
(iii) Included in the annual work plans, the PPU will submit a training
program (para. 54).



