Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4450-BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Social Investment Program Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 31, 2008  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 31, 
2008,
entered into between PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined by cross-
reference in the Appendix to this Agreement) to help in meeting the Recipient’s increased 
funding requirement caused by the impact of cyclone Sidr that hit the Recipient’s 
territory in November 2007.  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
thirty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,700,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and the Additional Project 
Agreement. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or 
any Joint Secretary, or Deputy Secretary, or Senior Assistant Secretary, or 
Assistant Secretary, or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief, or Senior Assistant Chief, or 
Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Facsimile:  
 
88028113088 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mohammad Mejbahuddin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Xian Zhu 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to develop effective and efficient financing and 
institutional arrangements for improving access to local infrastructure and basic services 
through the implementation of community-driven small-scale infrastructure works and 
social assistance programs. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project, expanded to new districts that were 
affected by Cyclone Sidr including the districts of Bageherat, Barguna, Patuakhali, and 
Pirojpur.
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination 
 
The provisions of Schedule 2 to the Original Project Agreement are incorporated 
herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis mutandis
.
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
following the Procurement Guidelines.
 
2.
 
Procurement of Goods and Works through the Recipien
t’s Procurement 
Rules
.
Within the overall context of the Procurement Guidelines, local 
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, will 
follow the Recipient’s Procurement Laws. The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement to be used in accordance with the Recipient’s 
Procurement Laws.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used:    
Procurement Method 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
(d)  
Community Participation 
3. 
For the purpose of National Competitive Bidding, the following shall apply:  
(a) post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or 
any other bidder; (b) bids should be submitted and opened in public in one (1) 
Page  8
-
7
-
location immediately after the deadline for submission; and (c) rebidding shall 
not be carried out, except with the Association’s prior agreement. 
 
4.
 Community 
Participation
:
Works, services and goods relating to small scale 
community sub-projects under the Additional Credit may be carried out through 
community participation in accordance with procedures agreed with the 
Association, and as elaborated in the Operational Manual. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants
’
Services
.
Within the overall 
context of Consultant Guidelines, local procurement of services of firms (for 
which the shortlist may be comprised entirely of national consultants) estimated 
to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, and services of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract will follow the Recipient’s 
Procurement Laws.  The following table specifies methods of procurement, to be 
used in accordance with the Consultants’ Guidelines for services procured 
internationally or the Recipient’s Procurement Laws for services procured 
locally.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)    
Quality-based Selection       
(b)    
Fixed Budget Selection         
(c)    
Consultants’ Qualifications     
(d)    
Single Source Selection         
(e)    
Individual Consultants       
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) the first contract for goods by each implementing agency following the 
National Competitive Bidding method, and thereafter contracts estimated to cost 
US$100,000 equivalent or more, regardless of the procedure; (b) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; (c) each contract for services of individual consultants, 
Page  9
-
8
-
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (d) qualification and terms 
of reference of individual consultants contract below equivalent of $50,000; and 
(e) all contracts for goods procured under direct contracting and consultants’ 
services procured under single source selection.  
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
E. Other 
Undertakings 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) implement the Procurement Risk Mitigation Plan 
(PRMP); (ii) include the consultant’s representative as a mandatory member in 
each bid evaluation committee; and (iii) submit to the Association consultant’s 
quarterly report covering the bidding process, implementation of PRMP, and 
quality of works. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall: (i) prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, 
furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, and in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines, a 
procurement plan, which shall include, inter alia, contract cost estimates, contract 
packaging, and applicable procurement procedures;  (ii) update such plan at least 
every twelve (12) months during the execution of the Project always covering the 
next eighteen (18) months, and furnish each such updating to the Association for 
its review and approval; and (iii) carry out the procurement of all goods and 
works in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Additional Credit
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as 
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing (“Category”), the 
allocations of the amounts of the Additional Financing to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Additional 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent) 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1)   Sub-grants for Sub-
projects under Part  C 
 
24,550,000         
100% 
(2)   Services for partnership 
with private sector under 
Part D 
310,000 100% 
(3)   Goods, including 
vehicles and equipment 
 
1,540,000           
100% 
 
(4)   Services, including POs, 
audit and training 
 
3,990,000 
             100% 
(5)   Incremental Staff 
Salaries and Operating 
Costs 
 
310,000           
100% 
TOTAL 30,700,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
Commencing August 15, 2018 to and 
including February 15, 2028 
1% 
commencing August 15, 2028 to and 
including February 15, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
APPENDIX 
Section I.
 
Definitions
All definitions contained in the Original Financing Agreement in Article I, 
Section 1.02 are incorporated by reference in this Additional Financing Agreement, and 
shall apply 
mutatis mutandis
 to the Additional Financing Agreement and the Project 
Agreement.  
 
Section II.  
Other Definitions
1. 
“Additional Project Agreement” means Project Agreement between the 
Association and the SDF, of even date herewith, for the carrying out of the 
Project financed by this Additional Financing.  
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006, and apply to the selection and employment of 
consultants using the proceeds of the Additional Credit. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Social Investment Program Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated April 7, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit  
No. 3740-BD). 
7. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
8. 
“Original Project Agreement” means the Project Agreement for a Social 
Investment Program Project between the Association and the SDF, dated  
April 7, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
Page  13
-
12
-
October, 2006, and apply to the procurement of goods, works and non consultant 
services using the proceeds of the Additional Credit.     
10. 
“Procurement Act” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act of 2006. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, to be prepared 
by the Recipient in accordance with paragraph E.2 of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Procurement Rules” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Rules of 2008. 
13. 
“Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act 2006. 
Section III.
 
The modification to the General Conditions shall be as follows
:
1. 
The term “Additional Financing” in paragraph 15 of the Appendix shall be 
deemed to also include this Additional Financing, and all references to 
“Financing”, throughout the General Conditions, shall be deemed to be 
references to this Additional Financing.  
 
