                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                         Report No.: ICR2089




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORTS
                             (Cr. 3740)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.5 MILLION
                        (US$18.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     PEOPLE‘S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                       FOR A

                   SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM PROJECT

                                December 21, 2011




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Agriculture and Rural Development
Bangladesh Country Management Office
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 2011)


                    Currency Unit   =   Bangladeshi Taka
                         Tk. 1.00   =   US$ 0.012987

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1 - June 30


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF     Additional Financing
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CNRS   Center for Natural Resource Studies
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
GP     Gram Parishad
GS     Gram Samity
JG     Jibikayan Group
KPI    Key Performance Indicators
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PKSF   Palli Karama-Sahayak Foundation
SDF    Social Development Foundation




       Vice President                    Isabel Guerrero
       Country Director                  Ellen Goldstein
       Sector Manager                    Simeon Ehui
       Project Team Leader               Ousmane Seck
       ICR Team Leader                   Ousmane Seck
       Primary Authors                   Benoist Veillerette, Florentina Williamson Noble
Contents
1. .... Project Context, Development Objectives And Design .................................................................... 1
2. .... Key Factors Affecting Implementation And Outcomes ................................................................... 5
3. .... Assessment Of Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 11
4. .... Assessment Of Risk To Development Outcome.............................................................................. 21
5. .... Assessment Of Bank And Borrower Performance......................................................................... 23
6. .... Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................................ 24
7. .... Comments On Issues Raised By Borrower, Implementing Agencies And Partners ................... 25
Annex 1 – Project Cost And Financing ................................................................................................... 26
Annex 2 – PDO Achievement Tables ....................................................................................................... 28
Annex 3 – Outputs By Component .......................................................................................................... 38
Annex 3 – Appendix 1 ............................................................................................................................... 40
Annex 4 – Financial And Economic Analysis ......................................................................................... 45
Annex 5 - Bank Lending And Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................................. 49
Annex 6 – Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................................... 52
Annex 7 – Stakeholder Workshop Report And Results......................................................................... 56
Annex 8 – Summary Of The Borrower’s Completion Report And Comments On The Draft ICR .. 59
Annex 9 - Comments of Co-Financers and Other Partners……………………………………… …. 65
Annex 10 – Government Comment on the Draft ICRR......................................................................... 66
Annex 11 - List Of Supporting Documents……………………………………………………… . ……67
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Social Investment
Country:                Bangladesh                Project Name:
                                                                            Program Project
                                                                            IDA-37400,IDA-
Project ID:             P053578                   L/C/TF Number(s):         37401,IDA-44500,IDA-
                                                                            H3490
ICRR Date:              12/21/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            OF BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 13.50M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 36.45M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 40.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:     Social Development Foundation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/24/1998     Effectiveness:             04/20/2003         04/20/2003
Appraisal:              10/28/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:               03/18/2003     Mid-term Review:           12/12/2005         05/23/2006
                                                                                     06/30/2011
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICRR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
                                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory              Government:               Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

     Implementation                                    QAG Assessments (if
                                    Indicators                                            Rating
      Performance                                            any)

 Potential Problem Project                                 Quality at Entry
                                        No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                         (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                Quality of Supervision
                                        No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                                (QSA):
DO rating before
                                    Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                       Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                                  5                        3
General transportation sector                                            40                      35
Media                                                                     5                        7
Other social services                                                    50                      55


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                        14                 17
Other rural development                                                       29                 29
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                                     14                 3
Rural policies and institutions                                               14                 19
Rural services and infrastructure                                             29                 32
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel M. Guerrero                      Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:            Ellen A. Goldstein                      Ellen A. Goldstein
Sector Manager:              Simeon Kacou Ehui                       Simeon Kacou Ehui
Project Team Leader:         Ousmane Seck                            Ousmane Seck
ICR Team Leader:             Ousmane Seck
ICR Primary Author:          Benoist Veillerette
                             Florentina WilliamsonNoble




                                                      ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to develop effective and efficient financing and institutional
arrangements for improving the access to local infrastructure and basic services through the
implementation of community-driven small-scale infrastructure works and social assistance programs.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

  (a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                         Achieved at
      Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                   approval                          Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                  documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1:             No. of hard core poor and poor benefiting from the project.
Value quantitative or
                                  0                3 million                            2.5 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                           06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2:             A direct financing model for hard core poor and poor is tested.
                                                                                   For the first time in
                                                                                   Bangladesh, an
Value quantitative or                                                              effective and
                                    0                  NA
Qualitative)                                                                       efficient community
                                                                                   financing model is in
                                                                                   place.
Date achieved                 02/14/2003          04/20/2003                             06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                               Values (from                           Achieved at
      Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1:             No. of community-driven small-scale infrastructure built.
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                      1800                             1734
Qualitative)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                           06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2:                               No. of youth employed or self-employed.
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                      NA                               55193
Qualitative)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                           06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)

                                                   iii
Indicator 3:           Percentage of women benefiting from the project.
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                    90                                   95
Qualitative)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                          06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                       No. of Gram Samitys' covering at least 80% of target households' that have
Indicator 4:           access to the village development fund and managed it according to the project
                       rules and guidelines.
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                   760                                  822
Qualitative)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                          06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                       No. of villages having quarterly Gram Parishad meetings and attended by at
Indicator 5:
                       least 70% of targeted members.
Value (quantitative or                           400 (80% of                          353 (71% of
                                  0
Qualitative)                                       villages)                            villages)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                          06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                       No. of Gram Samities that have mobilized O&M funds/resources to cover their
Indicator 6:
                       costs.
                                                 760 (80% of                          736 (77% of
Value (quantitative or
                                  0              consolidation                       consolidation
Qualitative)
                                                   villages)                            villages)
Date achieved                02/14/2003           04/20/2003                          06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                       No. of employment days generated for the flood effected community in the
Indicator 7:
                       target villages through the provision of community infrastructure works.
Value (quantitative or
                                  0                 600,000                             421,709
Qualitative)
Date achieved                06/12/2007           07/15/2008                          06/30/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)

  1    05/22/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  1.00

  2    10/08/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  1.28

  3    03/30/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  1.41

  4    05/17/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  1.50

  5    11/16/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  2.09

  6    05/26/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  4.87

  7    10/26/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  6.98

  8    04/28/2006        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 10.47

  9    06/29/2006        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 12.81

 10    12/19/2006        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 14.30

 11    06/13/2007     Highly Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 14.63

 12    12/23/2007        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 15.74

 13    06/28/2008        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 16.22

 14    12/27/2008        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 24.28

 15    05/26/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 27.04

 16    11/30/2009        Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory           33.73

 17    05/28/2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 40.14

 18    12/11/2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 44.87

 19    07/05/2011        Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory           54.43

 20    10/26/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           55.25




                                              v
H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1        Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal (2002-2003), Bangladesh experienced high levels of poverty and malnutrition.
The two original project districts, Jamalpur and Gaibandha, ranked among the highest in poverty
incidence, both in terms of income and human development. Both Bangladesh‘s Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the World Bank‘s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) expanded the a
definition of poverty and the interventions to address beyond material wealth concerns to include
focus on human development, recognizing that inequality and exclusion (particularly for women) from
basic services such as health, safe water and education, participation in the development process
equally contribute to poverty.
In this light, SIPP-I aimed to develop institutions, promote community-driven principles, pioneer
performance-based social assistance programs for the poorest, and leverage private financing for basic
utilities. These human approaches to poverty alleviation were directly in line with the overarching
development goals at the time of appraisal, and they are still relevant today.
Additional Financing I (consolidation phase) of SIPP-I was began in 2007 in order to consolidate the
gains from the original SIPP and deepen the activities in villages already served by the project. Its
design contained a particular focus on strengthening community-driven institutions of the poor.
Also in 2007, Bangladesh was hit by two waves of floods, which directly affected over 13 million
people in 46 districts, caused over 1,000 deaths; affected 2 million acres of agricultural land; and
damaged infrastructure, social and educational facilities and private assets. In response to the
Government‘s request for assistance, the World Bank provided financial support in various forms,
including the Additional Financing II of SIPP-I, channeled through the Social Development
Foundation (SDF) and the Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF).
The disastrous Cyclone Sidr hit southern Bangladesh on November 15, 2007. The cyclone caused
extensive damage to lives and property, particularly in the southwestern districts: Bagherat, Barguna,
Patuakhali, Pirojpur and Barisal. About 9 million people were affected and an estimated 2 million
people lost their livelihood and basic assets. In response to a request from the Government, the World
Bank financed a cyclone assistance program, part of which was the Additional Financing III of
SIPP-I.
The combination of the first additional financing to consolidate successes and the disaster response led
to SIPP expanding from an $18 million program to a $101 million program in less than six months.

1.2        Original Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

The original PDO was to ―develop effective and efficient financing and institutional arrangements for
improving access to local infrastructure and basic services through the implementation of community-
driven small-scale infrastructure works and social assistance programs.‖
PDO results were to be measured by the following key performance indicators (provided in PAD
section A and in PAD Annex 1: Project Design Summary).1




1
    Text in italics are from Annex 1


                                                   1
         About 1,800 community sub-projects successfully completed, in terms of participation of the
          poor and women, beneficiary satisfaction, technical quality, cost-effectiveness and operation
          and maintenance;
         About 50% of the poor and vulnerable groups in the project area benefit from small-scale rural
          infrastructure and social assistance programs.
         At least 50% of communities continuing to prioritize needs using participatory processes at
          least one year beyond sub-project completion;
         At least 10% of the community groups mobilized under the project able to leverage external
          resources to support additional needs;
         Increased awareness and opportunities to reduce vulnerability (such as, 50-60 percent of
          participants in the SAP are aware of their basic rights; use health services, such as
          immunization, pregnancy related care; access to wage/self employment);
         Minimum 50% of community infrastructure sub-projects effectively managed and maintained
          by community groups by EOP;
         At least 50% of VDCs formed continuing to manage activities in an inclusive manner;
         Community-driven development principles adopted as a policy, local planning, and
          implementation of small scale infrastructure by EOP.

1.3       Revised PDO and Key Indicators

Additional Financing 1 (consolidation phase) maintained the same PDO, except for the addition of
incoming generating activities, which were included in response to the demand of communities. The
following indicators were included under this additional financing:
         Number of poor benefited;
         Number of viable community organizations formed and functioning;
         Savings mobilized and non-project funds/financing leveraged by community organizations.
         The PDO for Additional Financing II (flood) is the same as the original PDO. The following
          indicators were added and are reproduced as they are in the AFII Project Paper:
         Livelihood of very poor people affected by floods is restored;
         Chronic indebtedness is reduced;
         Capacity to cope with disasters is strengthened.
The PDO for Additional Financing III (cyclone) remains the same, and states that the project will
continue to support the Government of Bangladesh and Social Development Foundation in developing
effective and efficient financing and institutional arrangements to empower the poorest and most
vulnerable and improve their access to small-scale local infrastructure, assets and livelihoods, with
special emphasis on Cyclone Sidr affected communities and families (AF III Project Paper). The
following indicators were added under this additional financing:
         Evidence of access to basic infrastructure and social services to improve quality of life of the
          affected communities, with at least 80% of target households benefiting from project
          interventions;



                                                     2
          Evidence of incremental employment and increased income of target families, with at least
           70% generating 20% more income;
          Evidence of increased savings and/or decreased indebtedness of target families, with at least
           50% decreasing indebtedness.

1.4        Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

Originally, the project was to be implemented in approximately 1,400 villages, about 54% of all
villages in the two districts of Jamalpur and Gaibandha. About 250,000 households were to benefit
from infrastructure sub-projects, and an additional 300,000 poor and socially excluded were to benefit
from the social assistance program.
Additional Financing I (Consolidation) aimed to consolidate activities for the 2 million rural people in
Jamalpur and Gaibandha, corresponding to the above 1,400 villages revised to 950 villages after the
Mid-Term Review. Under AF I, target groups for village institutions were restricted to the poor,
hardcore poor1 and unemployed youth (about 152,000 out of 300,000 families originally planned). As
under the original design there were some issues with elite capture.
Under Additional Financing II (Flood), project activities targeted about 500,000 flood affected people
to benefit from flood-proof infrastructure in 200 consolidation villages in Jamalpur and Gaibandha, as
well as 100 villages in the neighboring district of Sirajganj. The project also targeted 16,000 families
in the 100 villages to directly benefit from livelihood support activities.
Under Additional Financing III (Cyclone), project activities expanded to 4 Cyclone Sidr- affected
districts in the south: Bagerhat, Barguna, Pirojpur and Patukhali. About 500 villages in 14 of the most
affected upazilas were to be covered. About 120,000 families were to benefit directly from the
livelihood support activities, and about 0.9 million people from infrastructure rehabilitation and local-
level institutional development.
In total, the project was designed to benefit about 3.0 million people through rural infrastructure and
288,000 families from livelihood activities.
All Additional Financings instituted the participatory identification of the poor (PIP) methodology to
collectively identify project beneficiaries: the poor and hardcore poor within each targeted village.

1.5        Original Components

The original project design had the following four components:
Component A, Strengthening the Social Development Foundation (SDF) (WB-financed: US$
1.39 million) included four sub-components: (i) information and communication (IC); (ii) capacity
building of SDF; (iii) monitoring and learning (M&L); (iv) project management support.
Component B, Institutional Development at the Community Level (WB-financed: US$ 0.30
million) provided support to the community in terms of raising awareness, motivating and engaging
the rural poor to participate in community-driven initiatives, changing attitudes and behaviors among
local stakeholders, developing organizations at the village level, and preparing Community Action
Plans (CAP). It included two sub-components: (i) information and communication campaign; (ii)


1
    Hard Core poor are the bottom most category of a list of target poor self prepared by the community through a
     well facilitated participatory targeting methodology and the wealth ranking criteria are decided by the
     community specific to each village.


                                                         3
formation and strengthening of Village Development Committees (VDCs), Community Groups (CGs),
the project management committees of CGs, and the development of demand-led Community Action
Plans (CAPs).
Component C: Implementation of Community Action Plans (CAP) (WB-financed: US$ 15.84
million). CAPs prioritized community‘s needs for small-scale infrastructure and social assistance
based on informed choice and eligibility criteria indicated in the menu of options in the project
Operational Manual (OM). This component financed (i) 85% of expenditures of approved community
infrastructure sub-projects (while 15% was contributed by the communities in the form of labor and
cash); (ii) costs of NGO services to implement the social assistance programs; and (iii) costs of
services for appraisal and supervision of sub-projects.
Component D: Pilot Private Financing in Community Utilities (WB-financed: US$ 0.71 million).
Under this component, the project financed technical assistance and a maximum of 70 percent of the
approved costs of sub-projects. Technical assistance was used to help SDF identify, develop, appraise
and supervise pilot sub-projects in piper water supply.

1.6      Revised Components
Additional Financing I (Consolidation) (US$ 8million) maintained the same components as the
original project design. However, under component 3 (implementation of Community Action Plans-
CAPs) income generating activities were added, which marked the beginning of work in the area of
livelihood strengthening.
The livelihood restoration program forming Additional Financing II (Flood) was divided into two
parts:
The first part (US$10 million) was implemented through SDF and included two sub-components: (i)
a flood assistance program to provide emergency assistance to help the most vulnerable flood-affected
families meet their immediate consumption needs and rehabilitate community infrastructures that was
severely damaged by the flood; and (ii) livelihood development to restore livelihoods of flood affected
communities through appropriate skill development training, revolving financial assistance and market
linkages. Disaster risk management activities were also included.
The second part (US$15 million) was implemented by the Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF)
under its Disaster Management Fund and through its Partner Organizations (POs) and provided micro-
credit to affected communities to help them recover from the losses caused by the floods.
Additional Financing III (Cyclone) (US$50 million) maintained the same components as the original
project but also included restoration and recovery from damage to livelihoods and long-term disaster
preparedness.

1.7      Other Significant Changes
Under Additional Financing III (Cyclone), US$40 million was cancelled on April 19, 2011. See
section 2.2 on implementation for further changes in project approach.
                                                                Total
                                      Project Budget (PAD)
                                                              Budget         Actual
          Financing                    Govt.        IDA      allocation   Disbursement    % disbursed
Original + consolidation               2.51        26.24        28.75         27.98          97%
Flood Additional Financing             0.67        25.00        25.67         22.94          89%
Cyclone Additional Financing                       50.00       50.00*          9.38          19%
TOTAL                                   3.18       101.24      104.42         60.30          58%
(*) Of which US$ 40 million was cancelled.


                                                      4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

SIPP-I aimed to address two major constraints limiting the success of existing poverty programs:
(i) the exclusion of the poorest strata of the population from development interventions, including
micro-credit schemes; and (ii) poor local governance, including lack of Government engagement and
community-level institutions.
To this end, a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach was chosen as an innovative
means to promote participatory governance and develop community owned institutions. This approach
would enable access by the poorest to key infrastructure and basic services. It adequately built on the
need for a human development approach to poverty alleviation, as outlined in the CAS, as well as
lessons learned from other CDD projects globally, in particular the effectiveness of direct financing of
community groups.
While relatively complicated, long, and qualitative, the PDO adequately contained the three elements
against which project performance can be assessed: the project purpose (―develop effective and
efficient financing and institutional‖), the final aim (―improve access to infrastructure and services‖)
and the means to do so (―the implementation of community-driven small scale infrastructure works
and social assistance‖).
SIPP-I faced two other challenges in addition to that of introducing the CDD approach: (i) project
interventions were to take place in two of the poorest districts of Bangladesh at the time, Jamalpur and
Gaibandha; and (ii) project implementation was to occur through the newly created Social
Development Foundation (SDF), an autonomous organization under the Ministry of Finance, charged
with promoting community driven development initiatives to meet the needs of the poorest, previously
unmet by the work of NGOs and development programs. The fledgling nature of SDF meant there was
a steep learning curve during early project implementation.

                            Pilot Community
                                 Utilities
                                   1%


                                                   SDF Strengthening
                                                      and Project
                                                     Management
                                                          17%                Community
                                                                            Institutional
                                                                            Development
                                                                                11%

                           Community Action
                               Plans
                                71%




In view of its innovative approach and the associated uncertainties and challenges, SIPP-I was
conceived as a pilot project. This enabled it to: (i) be very responsive, implementing a series of
changes and improvements; (ii) experiment with a number of promising innovations such as

                                                   5
community procurement, community operational manuals, the village matrix and community
professionals; and (iii) eventually establish an effective institutional and financial model best suited to
the complex conditions on the ground.
SIPP-I represents an unprecedented attempt by the Government of Bangladesh to implement CDD
activities on the ground. The Government showed its commitment through the establishment of SDF
in June 2001.
The four project components were straightforward and adequately reflected of the CDD project
approach. Component 1 and 2, respectively, built institutions and developed their capacities at the
level of SDF and the community level. The third component represented the core of the project. The
fourth component provided space for innovations, some foreseen at appraisal, others developed during
implementation. While institutional development at the community level (component 2) was only
projected to absorb 1.7% of costs, project experience showed that this was largely insufficient. The
actual cost of this component was US$ 5.0 million, corresponding to 11% of project cost (excluding
the share sub-contracted to PKSF) as shown in the following graph.
Project designers performed a thorough risk analysis and indemnified a number of risk areas related
to SDF capacity. One of the most substantial risks identified was elite capture of project benefits.
Though there were instances of this during the first years of implementation, the issue was addressed
after the MTR, through participatory identification of the poor and properly defining and
implementing a village level institutional structure safeguarding the interest of the poor, women and
youth.

2.2 Implementation

Two major events shaped SIPP-I implementation. The first benefited the project, but the second led to
some of its main weaknesses. The first event was the important change of the project approach, the
nature of project interventions and implementation modalities. The change took place after 3-4 years
of implementation and led to the first additional financing (AF). The second event was the response to
the 2007 floods and Cyclone Sidr and the subsequent AF II and AF III.
The radical changes associated with the first AF (―consolidation‖) reflect how both SDF and the WB
were responsive to the outcomes of on-going monitoring and learning activities. Both were able to
make radical changes to address the main bottlenecks identified by the process monitoring
mechanisms (see 2.3) during the first half of the project, and crystallized during an in-depth mid-term
review. These were:
       mis-targeting, including the exclusion of some poor and HCP from project interventions;
       the questionable sustainability of project interventions due to the relative lack of community
        ownership of infrastructure sub-projects, resulting from the inability of partner organizations
        (POs) to facilitate a genuine participatory process. POs were unable to adequately contribute
        to community institution building, lacked institutional memory (due to rapid staff turnover)
        and lacked consistency of approach. Another threat to the sustainability of interventions was
        the fact that the one-time grants to the hard core poor were not leading to income-generating
        activities and not having lasting impacts on livelihoods.
       During the MTR, critical improvements have been introduced in response to these
        bottlenecks. They included among others, the revision in implementation arrangement which
        resulted in SDF to expand and directly engage with local communities instead of contracting
        NGOs. These are summarized here:



                                                    6
  Improvement
     Area                   Before MTR / issue faced                        After MTR / improvements
                                                                  ―Participatory Identification of Poor‖ enabled
                                                                  communities to limit project participants to the
                       Entire community targeted; mix of
                                                                  poor and hard core poor (and youth development
                       men and women, including influential
Target group                                                      activities), thereby eliminating elite capture and
                       or better off households which tended
                                                                  facilitating much broader participation. Women
                       to capture project benefits.
                                                                  actually became the vast majority of beneficiaries
                                                                  and the driving force of village institutions.

                       Village Development Committee              An inclusive and accountable village institution,
                       (VDC) and Project Management               the Gram Parishad (GP), organized into various
                       Committees (PMCs) faced risks: (i)         entities such as the Gram Samity (GS), Jibikayan
Village Institutions   lack     of     inclusiveness    and       Groups (JGs), savings groups (SSCs), Village
promoted by the        transparency; (ii) monopolization of       Credit Organizations (VCOs), ensured the
project                decision making by a few families          separation of functions and participation of many
                       (elite capture); (iii) insufficient        women, who were given specific responsibilities.
                       sustainability due to lack of              There was also an increased focus on
                       capacities.                                strengthening capacities of these institutions.

                                                                  Focus on institution strengthening as           a
                                                                  prerequisite to other project interventions;
                       Excessive priority on ―delivering‖         Introduction of more comprehensive village
                       infrastructure at the expense of           development fund (VDF), including the
Village                sustainable village institutions and a     livelihood fund which became a successful
interventions /        genuine      community      facilitation   means of poverty reduction and a Village
Village                process that took into consideration       Disaster Risk Reduction Fund with well defined
Development Fund       actual village needs and preferences.      sub funds.
(VDF)
                       Savings and credit were voluntary.         Mandatory savings and internal loans were
                                                                  systematically introduced.
                                                                  O&M of the CIW by the community was
                                                                  promoted.

                       One time seed capital grant of 4000
                                                                  Through PIP, participatory selection of all HCPs
Hard Core Poor         taka to 40 externally selected HCPs
                                                                  to benefit from all project activities
                       per village

                       SDF       contracted    Participating      SDF directly intervened at village level, thus
Implementation         Organizations     and    Community         ensuring a coherent implementation approach
modalities             Support Organizations to intervene at      and long term institutional memory and
                       village level.                             sustainability



As a result of this major re-orientation, the project dramatically improved its performance in terms of
targeting, institution development, community empowerment, creation of relevant activities by
communities, and the overall demand-responsiveness of the project. The restructuring took SDF
sometime to incorporate the design changes especially in establishing a decentralized field based
institutional structure and its adequate staffing.
The second event, responding to the 2007 floods and cyclone, greatly tested SDF’s
implementation capacity. While SIPP-I was being restructured after the MTR and the first additional

                                                         7
financing, decisions were made to dramatically increase its size through two more additional
financings in response to flood and cyclone disasters. In less than 6 months, the size of the project was
quadrupled (from US$ 26 million to US$ 101 million). While annual disbursement had averaged US$
3.5 million between project effectiveness in 2003 and the end of 2007, this new increased size meant
that SDF would have to affect a sevenfold increase in its annual disbursements (US$ 24.4 million) to
ensure full disbursement by project completion. While the AFs were made at the request of the
Government to WB management, it seemed that decisions on their size did not adequately involve the
direct SIPP-Implementing stakeholders, SDF and the WB task team. In fact SIPP was the primary
vehicle in the WB portfolio at that time that could provide the livelihood program needed to assist the
disaster affected population.
These two AFs were intended to be responses to humanitarian crisis. However, the nature of activities
planned was of a recovery and development nature as they aimed to ―rehabilitate infrastructure,
restore livelihoods and improve communities‘ preparedness to cope with future shocks while applying
the same core approach to community development. However, adding disaster risk management
interventions, working in difficult post disaster conditions should probably have led the project team
to revisit project design as a whole. Also, a more realistic time line for the achievement of the intended
outcome for the additional financings could have been envisaged. Furthermore, designers of AF II and
III overestimated the capacity of SDF to hire, orient and field the project staff and set up offices in the
new geographic areas to provide direct facilitation support to the communities. Consequently, it took 2
years between natural disasters and the first field activities (March 09 for flood; Nov-Dec 09 for
cyclone). This was too late to contribute in a timely manner to infrastructure rehabilitation and
recovery efforts. Many of the activities initiated under the operations could not be logically completed
within the 3-year project cycle resulting in shortfalls in the intended outcomes. The rapid fire
additional financings added other dimensions at a time when SDF was not fully ready for it. In fact,
the three additional financings were pushed without assessing in detail the real implementation
capacity of the SDF and without considering the fact that CDD programs require a long time line to be
implemented.
These decisions weakened SIPP-I by putting too much pressure on SDF –which was unable to cope
with such an increase in project budget and scope, while maintaining the same rigor and careful focus
on institutional development. This decision resulted in two shortcomings, in particular:
In order to speed up disbursement in Additional Financing II, SDF signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with PKSF for an amount of US$15 million to provide micro loans to flood
affected households. PKSF disbursed the entirety of the funds through its partner organizations;
however, its interventions did not necessarily contribute to the PDO in terms of institutional
strengthening and access to services. Further, while SDF was building the capacities of community
institutions to manage their finances, PKSF was providing external microfinance without the same
institutional development criteria sending mixed message to communities. Furthermore, PKSF
interventions did not contribute to the development of sustainable village because contrary to the core
of SIPP-I, funds were repaid to PKSF instead of revolving back to the communities; Finally, PKSF
could not demonstrate its impact on the project target group, due to poor reporting and monitoring. In
short, though PKSF have been an efficient disbursement channel for the US$15 million, it appears not
to have been an effective development channel towards achievement of the PDO.
US$40 million (80% of total) of the cyclone additional financing had to be cancelled, and the reasons
include: (i) the ex ante over-estimation of SDF to quickly expand its operations; (ii) the fact that
interventions were in a new, challenging geographic area, e.g. communications difficulties, limited
construction period for infrastructure which complicated and prolonged the development of SDF field
activities; (iii) the occurrence of a second disaster (cyclone ‗Aila‘) and the resulting, largely in un-


                                                    8
coordinated, relief operations which disrupted the longer-term development operations, including
those of SIPP-I; and (iv) the selection of an NGO, the Bangladesh Disaster Preparedness Center
(BDPC) to implement, despite the post-MTR decision to switch from NGO-led to SDF
implementation. Though competent in DRM surveying work, BDPC has little operational experience,
and this delayed actual implementation by a further 10-12 months.
While the initial closing date for the original SIPP was 30 June 2007, it was extended to 30 June 2011,
thus doubling its implementation period. This slower than expected implementation has three main
causes: (i) the nature of project activities (confidence building, institution developing, building long
term capacities) which require more time than anticipated at appraisal. Also, since communities drive
their own development, some delays are attributable to a slower pace set by the communities
themselves; (ii) the disruptions caused by the flood and cyclones; (iii) the lack of SDF management
during some key periods-e.g., no managing director for 5.5 months, no General Manager for Programs
for 1.5 years.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the M&E system was less than satisfactory. Overall, M&E played an important role in
guiding project management to improve design, implementation effectiveness and governance.
However, the system was less effective, documenting project achievements and results. The definition
of performance and result indicators were unclear, causing major difficulties in preparing the ICRR. In
addition, , the indicators are not consistent between: (i) the PAD core text in the (―Key performance
indicators‖ section); (ii) the PAD project design summary in the log frame in Annex 1; (iii) the
indicators developed for the 3 AFs; (iv) the indicators reported by SDF in its end-of-project Result
Framework; and (v) the indicators measured by independent impact assessment surveys.
This led to difficulties in implementation of M&E activities. Insufficient attention was paid to
systematic reporting on concrete, practical indicators of project achievements, as the use of
infrastructure works, development of livelihood activities and poverty reduction. M&E
implementation was also made difficult by the post-MTR switch to a more complex project. While the
original M&E system was based on the original PAD indicators, the new system, based on an SDF-
WB agreed upon Project Implementation Plan, was radically different. A results framework was
created to reflect the new project design, but with inconsistencies between the various AFs and the
original PAD.
Though not originally designed in the PAD, the technical assistance provided by the World Bank
subsequently developed and added three noteworthy, effective M&E features:
       The village matrix, aggregates information on community features, institutions, activities and
        achievements, updated monthly in a participatory manner and is posted on a board outside the
        GS office to share with community members. They proved to be a powerful tool for
        transparency and accountability at community level.
       A third party process monitoring system was successfully implemented by an independent
        agency, the Centre for Natural Resource Studies (CNRS). This streamlined process
        monitoring was instrumental in restructuring the project approach at MTR. The system (i)
        provided in-depth recommendations for post MTR project reshaping; (ii) provided monthly
        recommended action tables, highlighting problems and strategies to overcome them; and (iii)
        reported on irregularities and corruption cases.
       Monthly monitoring review meetings took place at the district and cluster level to track
        progress, resolve implementation issues and learn from implementation in a participatory

                                                   9
        manner. Further, quarterly Monitoring & Learning sharing forums including all field staff
        were organized with field visits and community involvement. They led to comprehensive
        action plans to address emerging issues.
Though a robust web based-base MIS was developed to track project implementation progress, its
effectiveness was limited due to: (i) continuous changes in project design; (ii) the fact that SDF was
not properly equipped to handle management of the software.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

In the context of Bangladesh, where misappropriation of funds is a major impediment to most
development activities, an important achievement of SIPP-I was to successfully establish mechanisms
that minimized leakages and maximized the share of project funding directly used by communities for
development activities.
First, project funds were transferred from SDF directly to the accounts of communities, who were
given responsibility for their management. These disbursements were made in installments based on
appraisals by SDF‘s Appraisal and Monitoring Team (AMT) of village fund proposals and completion
of physical milestones. The fiduciary arrangement and obligations were systematized by signing of
Umbrella Financing Agreements and addenda. A well-defined governance structure for the community
institutions and social accountability tools strengthened by the project were a guarantee for the
transparent use of these funds.
Second, the Community Operational Manual (COM) developed with and adopted by the
communities included a community procurement manual to serve as a practical guide to procurement
committees for the purchase of goods and contracting of works. At completion, an estimated 2,000
community members had been trained in procurement. However, the limited staffing of the
procurement team has meant that the pace of delivery of these trainings was been slower than optimal.
Third, another community safeguard was the establishment of community-level social audit
committees (SACs), independent from the other community and project institutions, which had the
mandate of reviewing procurement, funds management and decision making processes.
Fourth, the aforementioned process monitoring system was an important tool for ensuring
accountability of interventions. In order to establish and maintain mutual trust between CNRS, the
communities and SDF, CNRS did not behave as a disempowering, policing body. Instead, in an
estimated 90% of cases, it managed to address problem cases directly with those concerned in the
field, without needing to involve SDF management. However, some corruption cases did require
reporting to and involvement of SDF management (mostly during the first half of project
implementation period). At completion, according to CNRS records, corruption cases occurred in
about 20 to 25 villages (2% of villages) and concerned 40 to 50 people (0.02% of people involved). In
very rare cases, members of SDF staff were involved and were consequently fired.
Financial management by the SDF team was always reported as satisfactory. SDF developed an
effective internal audit arrangement to reduce fiduciary delinquency. It also appointed an External
Audit Agency to look after compliance issues. A governance and downward accountability framework
was introduced and a community-driven financial management approach was followed. One of the
challenges progressively addressed, has been to differentiate financial management functions at the
corporate and community level.
WB procurement rules were strictly applied by SDF although, in some cases, they were found
cumbersome and not flexible enough by SDF, which also led to the delays caused by the need for WB
approval on too many items.


                                                 10
2.5 Post-completion Operation and Next Phase

SDF and the WB have carefully planned for a smooth transition to SIPP-II—the Empowerment and
Livelihood “Nuton Jibon? project (approximately US$115 million). SIPP-II was developed by the
SIPP-I team during 2009 and 2010 and was approved on June 23, 2010 almost one year before the
completion of SIPP-I.
SIPP-II is a direct continuation of SIPP-I. It will work in additional districts and continue working in
SIPP-I villages in order to consolidate the gains of the original project. This continuation of support to
SIPP-I villages is essential for the sustainability of project achievements. SIPP-II started disbursement
in April 2011 and by the completion date of SIPP-I (30 June 2011), had already disbursed US$1.87
million. This smooth transition arrangement avoids any disruption in services provided by SDF to the
communities.
Under SIPP-I, the main elements to ensure effective implementation of SIPP-II as a follow up and
scaling up of the project were worked out: (i) the project implementation plan and an updated
Community Operational Manual were prepared; (ii) in order to substantially increase the human
capacity of SDF from the current 800 staff to over 2100 staff, a new HR policy has been developed,
along with a new organogram with much stronger decentralized offices at the regional and district
levels aimed to support field staff at community and cluster level; (iii) the restructuring of SDF and a
mass recruitment process took place in early 2011 to improve the implementation effectiveness and
capacity of SDF; (iii) revised financial management procedures to reflect the decentralized SDF
structure and revised institutional, procurement and legal arrangements for SIPP-II activities,
including new features such as the development of second generation institutions have been
established. A missing block, however, is an effective, straightforward and results-oriented M&E
system, better able to clearly reflect SDF achievements ad impacts.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The main SIPP-I features remain relevant at completion. The original PDO to ―develop‖ financing
and institutional arrangements is less relevant today as it was largely achieved (see 3.2 below). Indeed,
the need moving forward is to apply this model at wider scale, which is the purpose of SIPP-II. The
other main purpose of SIPP-I to improve access to infrastructure and basic services by the poorest
strata of the population remains valid and more than ever relevant as a main means to reduce poverty.
The other project purposes, livelihood development and disaster risk management, remain highly
relevant. All are consistent with the aim of the Government‘s 6th Five Year Plan, which is to bring
Bangladesh to the level of a middle income country through massive poverty reduction efforts.
Further, SIPP-II is also consistent with the current World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (FY
2011-2014) which aims to contribute to ―accelerated, sustainable and inclusive growth, underpinned
by stronger governance at central and local levels.‖
The updated SIPP-I design developed after the MTR remains very relevant and has been adopted by
SIPP-II. It consists of a succession of well defined steps, outlined in the Community Operational
Manual, including: awareness campaigns; participatory identification of the poor; building and
developing capacities of community institutions; initiating saving activities; developing community
action plans and committees in charge of their implementation and monitoring; improving livelihoods
through the development of IGAs; improving access to formal financial systems and mobilizing
project credit funds and delivering credit to members.


                                                   11
The rationale for the involvement of a Government agency (SDF) in implementing CDD activities,
including credit provision, in a country with many NGOs providing community-level support,
including microfinance, has to be examined. The MTR exercise gave partial clarity on this. While the
original design foresaw SDF as an apex organization providing support to communities through
NGOs, the MTR reversed this choice as it became clear that it was not the best approach to reach the
goal of increasing the self-reliance, and therefore the long term resilience of communities. The
revised approach, with SDF conducting field-level implementation, built this self-reliance and long
term resilience by:
         Giving priority to strengthening community institutions and developing their capacities in
          contrast to NGOs, which often delivered goods, training, and services, but paid less attention
          to developing capacities of community members, as they are more interested in recovering
          their cost for sustainability their own institutions.
         Benefiting from the institutional memory of SDF built through long- term involvement at field
          level and the reduced risk of leakages to the ad hoc and, often, shorter-term actions by NGOs.
         Empowering of communities to design, implement, monitor and maintain infrastructure and
          other activities, instead of their previous role as passive ―beneficiaries‖ of interventions
          designed by external NGOs;
         Transferring credit management decision making, and permanent financial resources, directly
          to communities, more importantly to the hard core poor, as opposed to having them rely on
          external sources of funds from NGOs. Community members interviewed during the
          preparation of the ICRR largely preferred the SIPP-I credit arrangement to NGO microfinance
          programs because it gave them the autonomy to own the capital funds, decide on interest rates,
          and fix the loan ceilings (which are often too low when provided by micro-finance
          institutions).
         Promoting a community-to-community learning approach through community professionals to
          improve the implementation effectiveness of the project.

3.2       Achievement of PDO

As mentioned earlier, the main challenge of the ICRR team has been to assess the achievement of the
most relevant performance indicators, as these have not been consistent between the PAD, project
papers prepared for the three AFs, the final SDF Result Framework Table, and indicators collected by
independent impact assessments.
In spite of the above challenge, the team has been able to undertake a fair assessment of the project.
Overall, the project has achieved its PDO, both in its qualitative and quantitative dimensions.
Four elements are reviewed regarding achievement of the PDO. The original PDO has been sub-
divided into 2 parts: (i) ―to develop effective and efficient financing and institutional arrangements for
improving access to local infrastructure and basic services; (ii) through the implementation of
community-driven small-scale infrastructure works and social assistance programs‖. Further, AFs I, II
and III introduced two new objectives: (iii) improved livelihoods as a result of access to financial
resources, income generating activities and employment creation; and (iv) improved resilience to
natural disasters for AFs II and III. The assessment of these four elements is presented below in
sections 3.2.1-3.2.4.




                                                   12
3.2.1 Institutional Development
At project completion, SIPP-I had achieved the first part of the PDO: ―effective and efficient
financing and institutional mechanisms‖ are in place. SDF has now a solid model of intervention at
community level to develop these institutional and financial mechanisms:
SIPP-I I established 1407 village level community institutions touching the lives of about 2.5 million
hard core poor and poor. The foundation of these institutions includes 258,113 households that have
been mobilized into 20, 414 Jibikayan (livelihood) groups.
A direct financing mechanism to communities has been instituted, including a village envelope based
on the size of the village. In the original project, the eligible amount was Taka 550, 000 to Taka
1,050,000 per village for CIWs. In addition, in each village, 40 most vulnerable people received a
grant of Taka 4000 each. In the consolidation phase, an additional investment of Taka 2500 per family
was provided as Village Development Fund (VDF) intended for institutional building and livelihood.
For flood-affected villages, the allocation was calculated at the rate of Taka 2500 per household
named as Flood Rehabilitation Fund (FRF). The village fund envelope has been accessed by the
village institutions in installments based on achievement of physical milestones.
The self governed effective community institutions established include the Jibikayan Groups (JGs for
livelihood and saving; the Gram Parishads (GPs) that are the a general assembly of project
participants; the Gram Samitys (GSs) which are the executive bodies of the GPs that include -amongst
others- one representative from each JG of the village; the Village Credit Organization acts as the
financial arm of the GS, in charge of managing the community finance activities and the independent
Social Audit Committee, which ensures compliance to project guidelines.
The functioning of the village institutions and financing mechanism are summarized below:
       1224 of GSs (87%) of total (against a target of 1125) accessed the village development fund
        amounting to more than US$47.26 million representing about 80 percent of the total project
        expenditures;
       129,960 hard core poor and poor households, most of which are normally not creditworthy to
        access traditional microfinance, have now accessed livelihood funds loans;
       In all village institutions, over 90 percent of the decision making positions are occupied by
        women against a target of 50 percent;
       1238 villages against a target of 1125 have regular quarterly meetings;
       90 percent of the 1407 Social Audit Committees formed in the villages submit quarterly
        reports to their respective GP, thus ensuring transparency and accountability at community
        level.
At project completion, communities had saved a total of 92 million taka (over US$1.2 million) had
been saved which is only 65 percent of initial target of 141 million taka. This is partly due to the
slower than expected implementation pace of the project and, in some cases and particular areas, less
than optimum follow-up by SDF to oversee saving groups. However, after completion, all of these JGs
continue to save at the same pace and further funds are being accumulated and used for more internal
loans;
On time repayment rates are 93 percent and 92 percent for loans from the saving funds and from the
livelihood funds, respectively, which is close to the internationally accepted standard of 95%. Close
monitoring is performed by SDF, which regularly grades the VCOs with A, B or C, based on their
performances.


                                                  13
For the first time in Bangladesh, a Community Financing model, a ―community-to-community‖
capacity building model, and a participatory targeting model were tested and scaled up. The
community financing model ensured: (i) easy access to credit for those who otherwise were not credit
worthy; (ii) collection of service charges paid by members, in order to build the fund for enhanced
future credits and to meet the operating expenses of village institutions, thereby ensuring financial
sustainability. The project developed community Professionals drawing from experienced community
leaders who voluntarily developed their own villages to then offer their skills and knowledge to new
communities for a fee. These systems of ―community-to-community‖ capacity building technical
assistance were institutionalized through the establishment of community professional centers. Two
such centers have already been developed in the original project districts and are offering services to
the villages in the additional financing areas. Finally, the participatory targeting model was successful
in helping the communities themselves fix the criteria and identify the project‘s target beneficiaries.

3.2.2. Access to Infrastructure and Services
SIPP-I also substantially improved ―access to local infrastructure and basic services through the
implementation of community-driven small-scale infrastructure works and social assistance
programs,‖ the second part of the original PDO. At completion, SIPP-I had financed the construction
of 1734 community infrastructure works, including 1376 works under the original project and 358
under the flood and cyclone additional financings. This compares with the original PAD target of 1800
sub-projects; no quantitative targets were set for the 3 AFs. About 2,500,000 people from 1407
villages benefited from these infrastructures. Four major categories of infrastructure works were
successfully completed: 2,490 km of earthen roads were built; 3160 culverts were constructed, which
considerably improved drainage and communication; 2940 hand tube-wells were drilled to provide
safe drinking water and 85 schools were repaired. At project completion, almost all infrastructure
works were in good condition and in use by villagers. Furthermore, 100 percent of villages had
established an Operation & Maintenance (O&M) plan and 77 percent of them (against the target of 80
percent) had mobilized O&M funds.
The construction of these infrastructures has led to:
               Improved access to markets, goods, inputs and information through better
                communication as a result of road and culvert construction. The final assessment
                survey revealed that communication in the village was improved for 84 percent of
                villagers as a result of road construction and 66 percent of villagers as a result of
                culvert construction. Road construction led to an increase in trade and commerce (for
                48% of respondents) and of marketing of agricultural products (for 39 percent of
                respondents). These percentages are respectively 35% and 33 percent for beneficiaries
                of culvert construction. These benefits can largely be attributed to the project as non-
                project Government infrastructure works address inter-village infrastructure not
                covered in SIPP-I. In addition to these four areas of infrastructure, 6 pilots piped water
                supply projects were implemented. Further, two Community Information Centers
                (CICs) with the aim to improve communities‘ access to relevant information, were
                successfully established as an innovation by the project. By project completion,
                21,300 people had accessed ICT based basic services for education, health and
                information. Over 8,000 people accessed information regarding government
                documentation and data on non-farm economic activities. Ninety-two youth have
                received basic operational training on computer and 529 farmers have accessed e-
                agricultural services.




                                                   14
                 As a result of culvert construction, 60 percent of households reported time savings,
                  76 percent of households saved time from road construction. An impact evaluation of
                  CIWs produced in 2010 showed that while the majority of people spent up to 60
                  minutes on communication per day before SIPP-I, this amount was reduced to less
                  than 30 minutes a day as a result of the project. A weighted average was calculated,
                  and the time saved averaged 17 minutes per person per day according to the survey;
                 Access to safe drinking water had led to improved health through the reduction of
                  water borne diseases. The impact evaluation survey of CIWs shows that 34 percent,
                  30 percent and 19 percent of respondents saw a reduction of incidence of diarrhea,
                  dysentery and hepatitis respectively. Further, time spent fetching water was also
                  reduced. The project financed 2940 hand tube wells. Assuming that, on average 12
                  households use a tube well (as reported by monitoring reports), with an average size
                  of five members per household, the total number of beneficiaries is estimated at
                  176,000 persons;
                 Access to education was also improved, both as a result of the rehabilitation of 85
                  schools and of road and culvert construction, which enabled increased school
                  attendance in 58 percent and 41 percent of villages, respectively.
Under the Social Assistance Program, a dedicated pilot health program was implemented from
October 2004 to June 2007. It reached 65,000 rural poor in 22 villages. This led to increased
awareness of health issues, increased capacity building, and access to local level health care services.

3.2.3. Improved Livelihoods
Project restructuring after MTR introduced a focus on livelihood improvement. SIPP-I developed
income generating activities and created employment through loans for enterprise investment and
skills development and through direct grants to the most vulnerable. At project completion 258,113
people were engaged in saving activities in their respective JGs and had saved a total of 92 million
taka (US$ 1.23 million). The provision of loans and grants (as of June 30, 2011) is summarized in the
following table:

                                                     No of      Total Amount (million     Total Amount
            Type of loan / grant                   recipients         BDT) (*)          (million US$) (**)
Internal lending (from JGs)                         141,283           127 (135)                1.69
Livelihood loans                                    110,000           555 (753)                7.40
One time grant for most vulnerable                   17,710             45.6                   0.61
Seed capital grant (@ 4000 taka per
                                                    19,960              79.8                  1.06
person) (before MTR)
Youth development loan                               10,660            22 (37)                 0.29
TOTAL                                               162,291             829.4                 11.06
(*) Initial target in parentheses
(**) Exchange rate at completion: US$ 1 = BDT 75

The amounts are slightly below target, mostly due to: (i) the slower than foreseen pace of
implementation; (ii) the fact that saving activities in some communities are not continuous, as field
monitoring visits have shown that some groups tend to stop or reduce their level of internal savings
once they access the livelihood fund. However, the provision of loans from internal savings and the
livelihood fund continues to grow after completion of the project and original targets will likely be
reached a few months after completion. The uses of these funds are described below:




                                                          15
Increasing family income through the development of income generating activities. In particular,
livelihood loans were invested to purchase goats or cattle (55 percent of total), small trade business
(30 percent), purchase rickshaws (9 percent) and invest in agriculture and fisheries (6 percent). The
financial analysis (Annex 4) shows that on average, taking into account unsuccessful IGAs by some
recipients, these activities generated an incremental monthly income of about 1300 taka (US$17.3),
which represents an increase of over 100 percent from before the project. Field visits show that
diversification in income generating activities (IGA) and improved business development guidance
provided to families could have further increased these benefits. At project completion, assuming that
the 110,000 households will sustain their activities over time, the annual value added created by the
project would amount to about US$23 million;
Creating employment. At project completion, 7893 youth were employed as a result of targeted
professional training financed by the project in the form of loans to unemployed young people. This
does not include people who considered themselves to be self-employed, as a result of developing
their own business (garments, repair shops, mechanics, and electronics). They are accounted for in the
previous paragraph. According to sample surveys, 43 percent of JG members (47,300 HCP and Poor)
were employed after benefiting from the livelihood fund. In addition, 5.75 million employment days
were generated by the construction of CIWs that were mostly built using paid community labor.
Supporting the most vulnerable to gain to membership in VCOs. Out of 17,710 most vulnerable
(hardcore poor) who have received one-time grant, 14,361 graduated to accessing loans from VCOs
and started IGAs.
Finally, while in usual micro-credit interventions, capital funds, interest and profit flow back to the
MFIs, village credit provided under SIPP-I remained within the village to provide opportunities for
their villagers (except for the sub-component implemented by PKSF). The project‘s village livelihoods
funds continue to revolve at the community level and meet community credit needs.
3.2.4. Disaster Recovery and Preparedness.
As mentioned earlier, development of SIPP-I village institutions was a relatively lengthy process,
meaning that SIPP-I could not support flood and cyclone communities in the first 1.5 years after the
disasters and therefore, did not have an impact on the direct recovery and restoration of
livelihoods immediately after the disasters. Community members rehabilitated their houses and
recovered from agricultural losses on their own, with support from humanitarian agencies and NGOs.
Because of the lengthy institution development process, SIPP-I may not have been the correct vehicle
to provide this support.
However, though not the most appropriate mechanism for immediate disaster response, SIPP-I did
bring benefits to the affected communities. For the first time in Bangladesh, participatory vulnerability
analysis has been mainstreamed into the village development planning mechanism and disaster risk
preparedness at the community level implemented.
In addition to contributing to the original PDO, the flood and cyclone AFs had the objective to
enhance the capacity of communities to cope with potential future disasters. Communities were
trained in disaster management and prepared disaster management plans. They were also provided
with equipment (hand microphones, first aid kits, raincoats and boots, radios, etc.). However, the sense
during community consultations during ICR preparation was that this support might not actually be
sufficient to improve the preparedness and resilience of communities to floods and cyclones. While
formally disaster management had been worked out and training had taken place, the actual
preparedness of the communities remains unknown in the absence of disasters, especially in flood
areas. Yet, regular mock drills have been performed, management committees have been formed and



                                                   16
communities‘ contribution to the disaster management fund has been set in many cases. The following
related responses were obtained during the final impact assessment survey (300 interviews):

Question                                                                                  percentage of yes
À disaster management plan was prepared in your village                                        99.7%
Any member of your family has participated in the preparation of it                            91.1%
Awareness of community on disaster preparedness has increased                                 100.0%
Training programs were organized on DRM                                                        98.3%
Radio and Hand Microphones are used during disasters                                           89.4%
The equipment received is enough to cope with disasters                                        26.7%
The disaster management plan is completely implemented                                         29.4%
The disaster management plan is partly implemented                                             58.6%

3.3     Efficiency

3.3.1 Cost Effectiveness
The final project cost was US$60.3 million, including US$29.21 million from the original credit and
the first AF, US$23.75 from the flood AF and US$10.83 million from the cyclone AF. Final costs
implemented by SDF (total minus US$15 million implemented by PKSF) were US$45.25 million,
covering 1407 villages, representing an average cost per village of about US$32,160. The number of
villages roughly corresponds to the initial target of 1400 in the original PAD, but these were expected
to be covered with the original cost of US$18.26 million, corresponding to an average cost per village
of US$13,000. The actual cost at project completion was therefore 2.5 times the projected one.
Taking the number of JG members (258,113) as a proxy for the total number of project beneficiaries
from SDF implemented components, the project cost per beneficiary amounts to approximately
US$175. This is substantially higher than the cost per beneficiary of micro-finance activities
undertaken by PKSF under the flood additional financing. Indeed, SDF and PKSF have radically
different modes of operation at community level, with SDF providing a more comprehensive set of
activities including savings and credit, CIW, institution development and capacity development.
According to PKSF, 270,317 loan recipients benefited from their intervention, corresponding to an
average per beneficiary cost of US$55.5 (average loan of 4262 taka), however, the actual impact of


                        Staff and operating                           Miscellaneous
                                costs                                      5%
                                 7%




                                   Contracts,
                                    capacity
                                  development
                                      18%
                                                                                      Community grants
                                                                                          67%
             Goods and vehicles
                    3%




                                                      17
these PKSF loans on income and access to services remains undocumented.
Another indicator of efficiency is the percentage of project funds that actually reached final
beneficiaries in the form of community grants. As shown in the attached chart, community grants
accounts to 67 percent, of project funds while operating costs make up only seven percent. A
comparative analysis of implementation before and after MTR, i.e. implementation through
contracting community work to NGOs vs. direct implementation by SDF. The share of project costs
reaching communities is remarkably the same between the two options, i.e. 68 percent and 67 percent.
This is even more evident as the share of funds directly or indirectly benefiting the communities
amounted to a higher 85 percent, taking into account the facilitation, institutional development and
community capacity building. Further NGOs were only facilitating the delivery of infrastructure
projects, while SDF was providing a more comprehensive support to community institution
development, access to infrastructure, services and saving and credit activities.

3.3.2. Cost Benefit Analysis
Annex 4 presents a simplified financial and economic analysis. The original PAD analysis focused on
valuing time saved from fetching drinking water as a result of the construction of tube wells. While
Annex 4 provides time saving estimates from the construction of tube wells and earthen roads, valuing
them in financial terms was not considered appropriate.
Instead, the financial analysis is on IGAs, considered by project beneficiaries as the main source of
their cash income. It is based on simple models that were developed in 2009 by an FAO consultant to
SDF, on the basis of direct interviews in a sample of villages, for more common IGAs undertaken by
recipients of the livelihood funds. These activities include: (i) goat rearing, which enables the owner to
benefit from offspring and the consequent sale of the animals at market within six months; (ii) cattle
fattening, taking about four to six months to increase body weight and sell the fattened animal; (iii)
purchasing rickshaw to provide transportation services; (iv) rice husking, an example of small
business, and; (v) small trade. The average annual income range resulting from these enterprises is
about 11,000-13,000 taka, except for those with rickshaws, which average 27,000 taka. Adjusted for
inflation, the weighted average income generated from IGAs is calculated at 15,765 taka per year, i.e.
1314 taka per month (US$ 17.5). This is double the average original household incomes estimated at
about 633 taka per month before project intervention, according to the final impact assessment report.
The economic analysis was undertaken with the following assumptions: (i) all projects costs (US$
63.8 million) were factored in and phased over the eight years of implementation period; (ii) to be
conservative, only benefits from IGAs were calculated (valuing other social benefits would further
increase project economic performance); (iii) financial prices of costs and benefits reflect economic
values; (iv) total incremental project benefits at project completion, were calculated only by
considering the IGAs from the livelihood fund, i.e. by multiplying the above average benefits per
household by the total number of beneficiaries from the livelihood fund (110,000), reaching a total of
US$ 23,12 million in project year eight and the following years; (v) these benefits were phased in
slowly starting in year 2008 and reaching full benefit in 2011 and subsequent years, and; (vi) the
economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated over a 20 year period at 24.7 percent which is
considered is very good, especially as the calculation is done on a conservative basis, only
accounting for benefits from IGAs. This is consistent with the independent final impact assessment
undertaken in 2011 – after the project closure. The summary of the assessment is given in Annex 6.
In addition, the project generated considerable social benefits that were not quantified in the above
analysis: (i) time saved in transportation from the construction of the roads and culvert (average of 17
minutes per day according to the impact assessment survey); (ii) better access to drinking water
resulting in improved health. According to a qualitative assessment in 2010, the incidence of diarrhea

                                                   18
declined by 34 percent with beneficiaries from tube wells; (iii) better access to economic activities,
education, information and goods as a result of improved connectivity; (iv) general empowerment of
communities as a whole and of their female and poorest members.

3.4     Justification of the Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: moderately satisfactory.
The Project largely achieved its PDO: (i) its features (design, implementation modalities, institutional
development, financial models) remain relevant and are a solid basis for replication and up scaling of
CDD activities in Bangladesh; (ii) it led to an empowerment of communities and women in rural
areas, giving them tools to eventually graduate from poverty; (iii) it helped develop a sustainable
community financing model friendly to the poorest of the poor, who were otherwise considered un-
bankable; (iv) it led to substantial social and financial benefits. Hence, the original SIPP along with the
AF- I could be considered satisfactory.

Though the project satisfactorily achieved its development objectives, the overall outcome faced some
shortcomings. SIPP-I suffered from the rapid expansion of its scope of activities, its geographic
coverage, and the amount of funds it managed with the introduction of AFs II and III in the most
constrained of the flood and cyclone areas. SIPP had not developed any institutions in the flood and
cyclone areas prior to the disasters, which limited its ability to implement quickly and effectively. The
situation was worsened by the lack of trained SDF staff in sufficient numbers, the lack of tested
models for the prompt and effective response for rehabilitation and preparedness of communities, and
the slow pace of creating the Disaster Risk Management Unit (DRMU) and the Appraisal and
Monitoring Team at regional level on the part of SDF. Moreover, the NGO contracted to implement
AF-III lacked the prior experience community development and community disaster preparedness to
be effective on the ground. Ultimately out of the US$50 million, only 9.38 Million could be disbursed
resulting in the cancellation of US$40 million. Though the intensions were right, pushing large
amounts with little time for implementation lead to slowing down the overall project performance.
There is no evidence that the disbursement of US$15 million through PKSF, under the flood AF,
contributed to the achievement of the PDO, in terms of proper institution building and targeting of
affected beneficiaries, community preparedness and empowerment and livelihood development.
The project has continuously strived to move funds to the communities for institutional and livelihood
development as evidenced from the disbursement figures of the last years of implementation. Hence,
the Bank supervision missions were assessing the AF-II and III as satisfactory. However, as SDF
could not catch up the required speed of implementation leading to a slowdown in disbursements, the
mission in May 2011 downgraded the assessment to MS. Would a realistic assessment of the SDF‘s
implementation capacity had been made earlier, it would have helped the management take a timely
decision.
For these above reasons, the AF II and III can only be considered as moderately satisfactory.

3.5     Over-arching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.1 Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development
One of the remarkable achievements of the project was that it successfully reached the intended target
group-the poor and HCP, unlike the vast majority of on-going programs. In SIPP-I villages, 85
percent of the poor and HCP participated. This was achieved through two mechanisms: (i)



                                                    19
participatory identification of the poor (PIP); (ii) the condition set by SDF to intervene in a village
only if their members mobilize at least 80 percent of the poor and HCP.
Poverty reduction was not a direct objective of the project, so the impact of the project on poverty was
not assessed. However, since SIPP-I aimed to establish a model that would contribute to poverty
reduction; SIPP-II should more systematically measure its impact on poverty. Qualitative evidence
shows that prior to SIPP I, the two main project districts, (Jamalpur and Gaibandha), were often in the
news because of widespread famine - this is not the case today. While general food security improved
during the past decade in Bangladesh, this can partly be attributed to SIPP-I who intervened in these
particularly food insecure areas.
SIPP-I turned out to be a women’s empowerment project. Over 95 percent of participants were
women and many attribute part of SIPP-I‘s success to this. This was captured in the following
indicators collected during the final impact assessment survey (sample of 1200 participating
households). As a result of SIPP-I, 99.4 percent of those surveyed (all but 5) said that the social status
of women has increased. Most decisions are now jointly made by men and women:
Participation of men and women in decision making related to…
                                                     Before Project                             After Project
                                               Women     Men                  Both         Women     Men      Both
 Loans                                           3%       57%                 39%           13%       6%      81%
 Sale or purchase of assets                      3%       57%                 40%            8%       8%      84%
 Savings                                        13%       33%                 46%           23%       2%      75%
 Education of children                           6%       19%                 53%           13%       1%      65%
 Family planning                                 1%       12%                 65%            3%       1%      71%
(Note: totals do not add to 100%, as the question was not considered applicable for all participants)

Community workshops during ICRR mission showed a lot of evidence of this empowerment,
contrasting with the usual place of women in rural Bangladesh. During workshops, women spoke out,
debated, argued and joked. They are now in a position to defend their views, to participate in decisions
both in the community and in their families. One woman summarized this change: ―Before, I was seen
as the wife of the bicycle repairer; now I am Ms. XXX, recognized for who I am.? The project
empowered women to prepare their own village development projects, to lead the various newly
established institutions (JG, GP, GS, various committees), and to open and manage bank accounts.
―Contrary to the first day, now the head of the branch of the bank puts a chair for me when I enter his
office,‖ said another woman.

3.5.2 Institutional Change and Strengthening
The core project achievement was institutional strengthening at community level. At project
completion SDF is a strong institution with cluster, district and national capacities, able to undertake
CDD interventions. For the first time in the country, the project could provide a multipurpose building
for the hard core poor and poor to meet together and share their concerns, instead of the open
courtyard of the landlords. Considering its positive impact, GoB is scaling up the SIPP model to a total
of 10 new districts under SIPP II. The key elements of the model are also being adopted in other
programs/projects.

3.5.3 Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
From a psychological point of view, the project also restored trust, pride and some positive behaviors
in the communities. They now have a trusting relationship with SDF, which contrasts with the initial



                                                              20
fear and skepticism due to prior negative experience with external institutions taking advantage of
their weak situations.
There are also indications that food and nutrition security improved resulting from: (i) better
communication and decreased water logging as a result of rural roads and culverts (39 percent of
respondents of the final assessment survey saw improved marketing of agricultural products; 12
percent said that agriculture was diversified, 12 percent said that crops intensified); (ii) the fact that 55
percent of loan recipients invested in livestock, leading to an increased production and consumption of
animal products (milk, dairy and meat); (iii) increased welfare from Social Assistance Program (SAP),
wages from infrastructure construction and other livelihood activities, which increased purchasing
power used to purchase additional food. The impact assessment survey revealed that the number of
households having three meals per day increased to 60 percent of the households compared to the
before project situation of eight percent. Meanwhile, the long duration migration from the villages
remarkably reduced as the employment opportunities increased by 20 percent.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The overall risk to development outcome can be considered moderate as most risks will be mitigated
by activities under SIPP-II. A summary risk analysis is provided below:

    Nature and
 likelihood of the        Potential Impact on           Existing or recommended mitigation
        risk             Development outcome                          measures                         Rating
External Risks

Disasters (floods,       Death or wounded people;       SIPP-I developed disaster risk management    Moderate
cyclones) are likely                                    activities (participatory vulnerability
                         Damage to infrastructure,
to occur in the future                                  analysis and preparedness) that partly
                         leading to reduced access
given vulnerability                                     improved community preparedness, but
                         to services;
of the country and                                      more efforts are required;
climate change           Disruption of livelihood
                                                        Livelihood activities and increased income
                         activities
                                                        and employment increased resilience of
                                                        communities;
                                                        Need to develop linkages with main stream
                                                        initiatives in disaster management;
                                                        Need for wider area planning (basin level
                                                        planning which is beyond the capacity of a
                                                        particular community)

Political                Absence of governing           SDF built strong procedures, working         Moderate to
Interference (in the     bodies or of managing          methods and a more effective organogram;     significant
Government and WB        director;
                                                        A strong human resource policy developed
higher management)
                         Politically appointed staff;   in 2008 aims to mitigate the risk of
on management of
                                                        interference and guides the current major
the project is           Inaccurate/ inappropriate
                                                        recruitment process to increase SDF
possible                 decisions regarding
                                                        capacity to 2100+ staff.
                         project scope and costs




                                                         21
Internal Risks

Institutional             The majority of SIPP-I        SDF management is aware of the issue and       Moderate
Sustainability of         staff is considered           in agreement with the World Bank should
SDF: There is a           competent and                 put in place mechanisms to retain the good
current lack of clarity   experienced. Their loss       quality staff, through a particular
whether SDF will be       would constitute a major      recruitment process for SIPP-I staff and/or
able to retain some       loss of human capital and     increasing the importance of experience in
of its best and           considerably reduce           the selection criteria of candidates. The
experienced staff: the    SDF‘s capacity to             new HR policy and manual adopted by
external recruitment      implement SIPP-II.            SDF management address this issue but
process creates                                         careful implementation by the external
anxiety among SIP-I                                     recruiting firm has to be secured
staff that need to re-
apply and are unsure
whether or not they
will be selected.

Sustainability of         CNRS estimates that only      SIPP-II was not only designed to upscale       Moderate
Village Institutions:     about 20% of the              SIPP-I, but also to take over support to all
Communities‘              community institutions        communities having benefited from SIPP-I
institutions are not      developed under SIPP1         to enable their self-sustainability.
sustainable without       are ―mature,‖ i.e. they can
                                                        In addition, community owned institutions
support from SDF.         now run on their own with
                                                        are being developed to provide support
With no further           no further external
                                                        independently from SDF: SIPP-I has
support, they could       support.
                                                        empowered 975 Community Professionals
disappear. They are
                          The dissolution of            who already provided 23,253 person days
numerous and
                          community institutions        of service; SIPP-II will establish second
complex. Book
                          would lead to progressive     generation institutions able to federate
keeping requirements
                          disappearance of project      existing institutions and ensure further
are demanding and
                          achievements.                 support and sustainability.
cumbersome.

Infrastructures built     This would lead to the        The fact that communities planned,             low to
under SIPP-I are not      progressive deterioration     implemented, own and monitor                   moderate
sustainable.              of the infrastructure.        infrastructure is a guarantee for
                                                        sustainability;
                                                        785 villages under consolidation phase
                                                        (83% of total) have developed O&M plans
                                                        for CIW and 744 villages (79%)
                                                        implemented these plans as scheduled.




                                                         22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank

5.1.1 Ensuring Quality at Entry
Overall, quality at entry is satisfactory. The design of the original project and of the consolidation
phase was satisfactory: they proposed solid processes and arrangements, building on existing
experiences and introducing the necessary flexibility. Only the M&E design was relatively poor.

5.1.2 Quality of Supervision
Quality of supervision was satisfactory. Supervision was regular, delving deep into issues, providing
accurate technical assistance and practical guidance to the project implementation team. Missions
were concluded by detailed aide-memoires, with practical recommendations and agreed actions.
Rather than adopting a controlling attitude, supervision teams provided advice, support and guidance.
TTLs were responsive to issues and SDF greatly appreciated their support. The Bank Team undertook
successfully the huge challenge of post MTR design change in addition to withstanding the pressure
created due to rapid financial expansion resulting in unrealistic disbursement targets. Out of the four
TTLs, two of them were located in Dhaka, which greatly facilitated communication, engagement and
speedy action. In addition, regular technical assistance and south to south exchanges were organized
from similar projects in the region. SDF benefitted from all these efforts the effect of which has been
demonstrated from the fact that SDF performance began to pick up and could meet many of the
targets.
The quality of supervision would have been rated highly satisfactory. The supervision team made
important efforts to support the implementation agency in creating its Disaster Risk Management Unit
and to work out modalities to expand SDF activities in the disaster affected areas. However, they
could not properly estimate the challenges and potential risks that might have affected the effective
implementation of the flood and cyclone AFs. Moreover, the decision to channel funds through PKSF
and to use an NGO as implementing agency in the cyclone affected districts turned out to be
inappropriate.

5.1.3 Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
In the light of above, quality at entry and supervision were satisfactory. Despite the implementation
issues associated with the rapid increase of project allocation, the overall design and supervision have
been carefully managed. Hence, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower

5.2.1 Government Performance
Government performance is rated satisfactory. The Economic Relations Division (ERD) of the
Ministry of Finance supervises all externally financed projects and was extensively briefed by all WB
supervision missions, after which ERD ensured adequate momentum by the implementing agency to
follow WB recommendations. The Government provided good support to CDD activities implemented
by SDF and was responsive to the needs for change during implementation, including as a result of the
MTR.
However, the Government failed to appoint the key decision making bodies of SDF, the Governing
Body for 5.5 months and its infrequent meetings prevented timely decision. It also failed to appoint the
Managing Director of SDF for about five months in 2010.

                                                  23
5.2.2 Implementing Agency (or Agencies) Performance
The main implementing agency, SDF is rated satisfactory. At completion, it had 800 staff, mostly
dedicated, experienced and competent. SDF was able to effectively implement the project and adjust
throughout implementation.
As a new institution (created in 2001), SDF faced some shortfalls, including: (i) the lack of a human
resource policy throughout SIPP-I: (ii) SDF was without a general manager program for 1.5 years in
2008 and 2009; (iii the ineffective M&E system.
However, during the last project year, SDF made considerable progress, justifying the satisfactory
rating. These areas of progress were: (i) the completion and/or smooth rollover of unfinished tasks of
flood and cyclone AF to SIPP II; (ii) successful preparation for and negotiation of SIPP-II; (iii)
adoption and implementation of a new human resource policy; (iv) a significant increase in delivery
capacity – resulting in disbursement as high as about US$ 13 million, which is unprecedented and
represents an increase by over 30 percent compared to previous years, while keeping the same quality
standards at field level. Also, the analysis provided in Section 3.3.1 shows that SDF has been a cost
effective institutions as 67 percent of project expense have reached their intended communities and
beneficiaries.

5.2.3 Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
The Government and the implementing agency being rated satisfactory, the overall borrower
performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Three main lessons emerge from SIPP-I:
(a) Thoughtful planning in order to strike a meaningful equilibrium is critical for the success of
CDD operations. The Project suffered from the rapid expansion of scope of activities, coupled with
steeply rising funds allocation to the project, through AFs II and III, all in the most constrained and
adversely affected flood and cyclone areas. Placing multiple burdens on a fledgling and developing
SDF was damaging, as village institutions need time and continuous support to properly mature and
perform. SIPP-I also suffered from an inadequate assessment of the real implementation capacity of
the implementing agency. This is even more critical in countries prone to natural disasters, such as
Bangladesh. Most importantly, successful CDD programs usually evolve over time and should be
allowed to take root before expansion. In the case of SIPP-I, what first started as a pure capacity
strengthening operation focused on developing effective and efficient financing and institutional
arrangements for improving access to local infrastructures and basic services, changed into a multi
sectoral program, including livelihood development and employment creation. But the rapid
transformation of adding resilience to natural disasters may have put additional pressure on the design
along with time constraints. Hence, the design of CDD operations should be flexible enough to adapt
to emerging challenges. Equally critical is thoughtful planning for making balanced decisions on the
expected outcomes, size of operation, scope of activities, institutional arrangements and time available
for implementation.
(b) Institution development and an enabling policy environment are pre-requisites for scaling up
CDD operations. Building strong institutions of the poor at community level is central to CDD and
plays an important role in facilitating access of the poor to resources and services. Also, the absence of
a supportive national policy framework that allows for institutional strengthening of key stakeholders
at various levels, lead to slow adoption of the model by other projects and programs in the country.

                                                   24
Integration and interaction of all levels as well as horizontal and vertical learning and experience
sharing from similar operations within and outside the country, provide critical leverage to build and
deliver more meaningful and inclusive programs. The sustainability of the strengthened primary
institutions will be further addressed by transcending the village boundaries through networking,
federating and strategizing second generation issues. In order to achieve all these, strong ongoing
technical support from the Bank, field presence of TTL, managing to constantly raise and deepen the
dialogue on the performance benchmarks and keeping the central agencies fully briefed are essential.
(c) A successful CDD operation involves innovative, community-friendly tools that reach the
hard core poor and poor and empower women. This includes, though is not limited to the
following: (i) a participatory targeting methodology to ensure ownership of the operation by the
beneficiaries and prevents elite capture of its benefits; (ii) user-friendly community operational
manuals developed with participation of the community to help internalize the rules and guidelines of
the approach, and develop a shared understanding among community leaders, members of the
community institutions and facilitating staff; (iii) a successful community financing model to provide
new opportunities for improved access of the hard core poor and poor, including women to financial
services; (iv) a proper social auditing mechanism, governance and accountability action plan and
community assessment mechanism, to ensure improved governance, downward accountability and
transparency of the operation; and (v) an independent and effective process monitoring system as a
permanent checking and informing mechanism in order to ensure timely addressing of impediments as
well as learning.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower, Implementing Agencies and Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
(b) Co-financiers
There was no co-financier of SIPP-I
(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders
As the main process monitoring agency, CNRS emphasized: (i) the importance of some of the social
benefits of the project (which could not be documented) such as increased child education/ enrollment,
better health awareness (increasingly shifted from taboo based interventions to modern medical
interventions), use of ICT, information and opportunity of jobs outside of respective locality, decrease
in out migration; (ii) institutional features on which SIPP-II should focus, such as the linkages with
local government bodies (so that local government bodies will not be feeling threatened by a parallel
body) and the importance of ensuring greater community cohesion (poor and rich).




                                                  25
                                 Annex 1 – Project Cost And Financing

This series of tables was provided by SDF.
Original and Final Project costs (US$ million)

                                     Project Budget (PAD)             Total
                                                                    Budget            Actual
          Financing                   Govt.           IDA          allocation      Disbursement         % disbursed
Original + consolidation           2.51           26.24           28.75           27.98                97%

Flood Additional Financing         0.67           25.00           25.67           22.94                89%

Cyclone Additional Financing                      10.00           10.00*          9.38                 94%

TOTAL                              2.98           61.24           64.22           60.30                94%

Note: *The original allocation was US$ 50.0 million but US$ 40.0 million already cancelled and used in another sector in
Bangladesh.



                                     Component wise Final Project cost
                                         Period up to June 30, 2011
           Consolidation Phase (Additional Financing- 1)- IDA Credit no. 3740-BD & 37401-BD
Sl.      Project Components                                         Amount in
                                                                    USD              BDT
         Component-1:Strengthening of SDF and Project
1                                                                         4.97            340.31
         management
         Component-2:Institutional Development at Community
2                                                                         2.01            137.99
         Level
3        Component -3: Implementation of Community Action Plans          20.63           1,413.23
4        Component- 4: Pilot Pvt. Financing of Community Utilities        0.37            25.26

Total                                                                              27.98                1,916.79




                                                          26
                            (Grant number H349-BD), 2nd Addl. Financing, Flood Project
                                                                                          (Figures in Millions)
    Sl.                        Project Components                                              Amount in
                                                                                      USD                    BDT
1         Component-1: Strengthening of SDF and Project management                     0.97                  66.62

2         Component-2: Institutional Development at Community Level                    1.69                 115.84

3         Component-3: Implementation of Community Action Plans                        5.27                 360.77

4         Component-4: Pilot Pvt. Financing of Community Utilities                     0.01                   0.49

5         Total (1+2+3+4)                                                              7.94                 543.72

6         Livelihood Restoration under PKSF                                           15.00                 1,047.21

7         Total (5)                                                                   15.00                 1,047.21

8         Total Disbursement (5+7)                                                    22.94                 1,590.93
Note: An amount of USD 1.38 million expenditure occurred under component 3 and USD 0.18 million expenditure occurred under
component 2 respectively from SIPP II.


                       (Credit number 4450-BD), 3rd Addl. Financing, SIDR Cyclone Project
                                                                               (Figures in Millions)
    Sl.                        Project Components                                              Amount in
                                                                                      USD                    BDT
1         Component-1: Strengthening of SDF and Project management                     1.69                 116.02

2         Component-2: Institutional Development at Community Level                    1.30                  89.35

3         Component-3: Implementation of Community Action Plans                        6.36                 435.64

4         Component-4: Private Sector - Technical Assistance                           0.02                   1.58

Total                                                                                  9.38                 642.60
          Conversion rate 1 USD = BDT 68.5 (average)
Note: An amount of USD 0.72 million expenditure occurred under component 3 expenditure made from SIPP II.




                                                       27
                               Annex 2 – PDO Achievement Tables

This annex aims to provide a logical, clear way to analyze progress of the project, based on indicators
deemed by the ICRR team as core to the aims and spirit of the PDO and of the project. The results
framework established in the original PAD was not strictly followed throughout the project, nor did
the additional financing project papers provide a solid basis upon which to track progress. Project
Implementation Plans (PIPs) were put in place, which contained revised results frameworks with
indicators that were tracked. However, these frameworks were not completely in line with the original
PAD. It must be stated, though, that the project approach has indeed evolved quite substantially as a
result of the Mid Term Review and Additional Financings, meaning that the original PAD indicators
taken literally, are in some cases, less relevant. As such, the ICRR team has established a set of core
areas of progress against which meaningful, relevant analysis has been undertaken.
The core areas and explanations for their selection are as follows:
Beneficiary coverage. This serves to give an at-a-glance picture of project achievement as well as a
measure of inclusiveness – a topic that comes directly from the PAD results framework.
Sustainability of institutions. Institution building is a core part of the PDO and measuring the
sustainability of these institutions is included in the PAD results framework.
Access to services through infrastructure work. Improving access to local infrastructure is part of the
PDO and has been an important part of project implementation.
Livelihoods. The original PAD does not envision activities to improve livelihoods. The Consolidation
Project Paper, however, introduces income generating activities under the third component. Further, as
the project approach evolved, livelihoods became an integral part of project interventions and an
important area in which to track progress.
Scaling up and policy level mainstreaming of community-driven development. This comes directly
from the original PAD results framework.
Reduction of vulnerability. Part of the original PAD results framework, this indicator, however, has
not been tracked directly, but is included here nonetheless.
Each table below represents one of these core areas of progress and provides, where applicable:
       The original most relevant PAD or Additional Financing Project Papers indicator(s), including
        targets, where available;
       The most relevant indicator(s) and targets from the Final Report (June 2011) of SDF Results
        Framework (based on the PIPs);
       Achievement on these indicators;
       Relevant notes.
       Beneficiary Coverage




                                                   28
Targets for Number of People
                                        Social Assistance
                                            Program/
      Phase        Infrastructure          Livelihoods                              Notes
Original PAD      2 million (950      40,000 (SAP)            The original PAD envisioned village-level
                  villages)                                   activities occurring in 4 phases; however the
                                                              fourth phase villages were dropped by the
                                                              project.
Consolidation                         152,000                 The Consolidation Project Paper is not very
                                                              clear on whether these additional 150,000
                                                              beneficiaries would benefit from SAP or
                                                              livelihood activities. The ICRR team
                                                              assumption is that there was a mixture, but
                                                              this is not specified in the project paper.
Flood             0.5 million (300    16,000 (livelihoods)     out of the 300 villages, 200 are form the
                  villages)                                   consolidated phase and only 100 are new
                                                              villages It is to mention that all 300 villages
                                                              will     benefit     from      flood    proofed
                                                              infrastructure, while 100 villages will benefit
                                                              from livelihood interventions.
Cyclone            0.9 million (500   120,000 (livelihoods)   These targets come from the Cyclone Project
                  villages)                                   Paper and do not take the cancellation of
                                                              US$40 million into account.
TOTAL             3 million           288,000




                                                  29
Beneficiary Coverage Indicators and Achievement
                        Original PAD Indicator/Project        SDF Results Framework
       Category                Paper Indicator                 Indicator with Target                   Achievement1                                 Notes
                                                                                                                                 The project did not report exactly on the
                                                                                                                                 original PAD indicator, as the project
                                                                                              258,113 HHs are members of
                                                                                                                                 approach evolved to a more robust
                                                                                              JG, 83% of which are engaged
                                                                                                                                 institutional and livelihoods approach,
                                                                                              in savings
                                                                                                                                 and the social assistance programs were
                                                                                              110,000 JG members received
                                                                                                                                 dropped. However, the data provided
                       Original PAD: About 50% of the       N/A                               Shabalombi Fund loan
                                                                                                                                 gives a good picture of achievement in
                       poor and vulnerable groups in the                                      17,710 vulnerable beneficiaries
                                                                                                                                 terms of how many of the vulnerable and
Number of people       project area benefit from small-                                       received one time grant
                                                                                                                                 poor groups benefited from the project.
                       scale rural infrastructure and                                         19,960 beneficiaries received
                                                                                                                                 These figures include achievements
                       social assistance programs                                             seed capital
                                                                                                                                 under additional financings.
                                                                                                                                 SOURCE: PCR
                                                            Flood: Number of households       91,300 HHs directly benefited
                                                            benefited from improved           from improved village
                                                            village infrastructures (flood-   community infrastructures
                                                            resistant) through CISF/FRF       (flood-resistant)
                                                            Target: 105,000 HHs               (87% of target)
                                                                                                                                 This number was calculated by adding
                                                                                                                                 the number of Gram Samitys formed
                                                                                              943 consolidation villages         under consolidation (943) to the number
                                                                                              100 additional flood villages      of non-consolidation village
                       Original PAD: 1,400 villages to
Number of villages                                          N/A                               364 cyclone villages               organizations that have formed
                       benefit from project interventions
                                                                                              1,407 total villages are covered   functional disaster management
                                                                                              by the project                     committees under the flood (100) to the
                                                                                                                                 number of cyclone villages in which
                                                                                                                                 SDF started implementation (364).


1
    Unless otherwise specified, achievement data come from the SDF Final Results Framework Achievement Table


                                                                                      30
                Original PAD Indicator/Project        SDF Results Framework
    Category           Paper Indicator                 Indicator with Target                 Achievement1                           Notes
                                                                                                                 Note that the original target was set prior
                                                                                                                 to additional financings I, II and III.
                                                    Consolidation: Number of
                                                    Gram Samitys covering at
                                                    least 80% of target households
                                                    that have accessed the Village
                                                                                     822 GSs (87% of villages)
                                                    Development Fund and
                                                                                     (108% of target)
                                                    managed it according to the
                                                    project rules and guidelines
                                                    Target: 760 GSs (80% of
                                                    villages)
                                                    Consolidation: Number of
                                                    Gram Samitys having at least
                                                    50% of decision making                                       The original PAD indicator refers to
                                                                                     943 GSs (100% of GSs)
                Original PAD: At least 50 percent   positions occupied by women                                  VDCs, however the institutional
                                                                                     (124% of target)
                VDC formed continue to manage       (poor or HCP)                                                approach evolved and no longer includes
Inclusiveness
                activities in inclusive manner by   Target: 760 GSs (80% of                                      VDCs. Therefore the ICRR reports on
                EOP                                 villages)                                                    Gram Samitys, part of the new
                                                    Flood: Number of villages                                    community-level institutional model.
                                                    accessed FRF/VDRRF for
                                                    flood risk reduction fund and
                                                                                     297 villages
                                                    utilized fund as per COM
                                                                                     (99% of target)
                                                    guideline.
                                                    Target: 300 (100% of
                                                    villages)
                                                    Cyclone: Number of GS
                                                    having at least 50% of
                                                                                     353 GSs
                                                    decision making positions
                                                                                     (74% of target)
                                                    occupied by target women.
                                                    Target: 475 GSs




                                                                             31
Sustainability of Institutions
 Original PAD Indicator/Project         SDF Results Framework
          Paper Indicator                 Indicator with Target                 Achievement1                                      Notes
Original PAD: At least 50 percent     Consolidation: Number of
of communities continue to            villages having regular
                                                                       830 (88% of total villages)   The project did not report directly on the original PAD
prioritize needs using                quarterly Gram Parishad
                                                                       villages                      indicator. However, the indicator from the SDF results
participatory processes at least      meetings and attended by at
                                                                       (109% of target)              framework has been taken as a proxy here.
one year beyond sub-project           least 80% of target members.
completion.                           Target: 760 (80% of villages)
Original PAD: At least 10 percent     No. of Community
                                                                                                     Due to a lack of information that did not allow the ICRR team
of the community groups               Professionals (CPs) developed    975 CPs developed and
                                                                                                     to report directly on the original PAD indicator, information
mobilized under the project are       and providing service to other   providing services to other
                                                                                                     about Community Professionals has been used as a very rough
able to leverage external resources   communities.                     communities.
                                                                                                     proxy.
to support additional needs by        Target: 3800 CPs ( 5 CPs in      (26% of target)
EOP                                   each 80% villages)
                                                                                                     There was no clear parameter set against which to measure
                                                                                                     OTR. However, the standard satisfactory OTR rate in the
                                                                                                     microfinance sector is generally agreed to be about 95%, with
                                      On Time Repayment (OTR)                                        consideration given to the relative financial capacities of
                                      Rate of Shabalombi Fund          92%                           communities. As this project was the first time communities
                                      Loans                                                          themselves were given the responsibility to interact directly
                                                                                                     with the banking sector, the rate of 92% can be considered
N/A
                                                                                                     satisfactory.
                                                                                                     SOURCE: PCR
                                                                                                     There was no clear parameter set against which to measure
                                                                                                     OTR. However, the standard satisfactory OTR in the
                                      On Time Repayment Rate of                                      microfinance sector is generally agreed to be about 95%, with
                                                                       93%
                                      Internal Lending                                               consideration given to the relative financial capacities of
                                                                                                     communities. As this project was the first time communities
                                                                                                     themselves were given the responsibility to interact directly



1
    Unless otherwise specified, achievement data come from the SDF Final Results Framework Achievement Table


                                                                                      32
Original PAD Indicator/Project         SDF Results Framework
       Paper Indicator                  Indicator with Target                 Achievement1                                              Notes
                                                                                                        with the banking sector, the rate of 93% can be considered
                                                                                                        satisfactory.
                                                                                                        SOURCE: PCR
                                                                                                        This figure comes from the draft PKSF Impact Assessment
                                     On Time Repayment Rate for
                                                                      73.5%                             (p.3-9). However, as the draft was not finalized, some findings,
                                     PKSF Loans
                                                                                                        including this one, are still under discussion.
                                     Flood: Number of village
                                     organizations that have
Flood Project Paper: ―better         formed functional disaster       300 village organizations         The SDF Results Framework indicator is a proxy for the
capacity to cope with future         management committees and        (100% of target)                  outcome from the flood project paper, as the wording in the
disasters‖                           are implementing disaster risk                                     project paper is inconclusive.
                                     mitigation plan
                                     Target: 300
Original PAD: At least 50 percent    Cyclone: Number of villages
of communities continue to           having quarterly Gram
                                                                                                        The project did not report directly on the original PAD
prioritize needs using               Parishad meetings and            353 (71% of villages) villages
                                                                                                        indicator. However, the indicator from the SDF results
participatory processes at least     attended by at least 70% of      (88% of target)
                                                                                                        framework has been taken as a proxy here.
one year beyond sub-project          target members
completion.                          Target: 400 (80% of villages)



Access to Services through Infrastructure Work
Original PAD Indicator/Project         SDF Results Framework
          Paper Indicator               Indicator with Target                   Achievement1                                           Notes
Original PAD: About 1,800                                             1,376 community infrastructures   The original target of 1,800 sub-projects was set prior to
community sub-projects                                                built by the community in         additional financings I, II and III. Therefore although the total
                                     N/A
successfully completed, in terms                                      consolidation phase; 358          number of sub-projects (1,734) is higher than the original
of participation of the poor and                                      subprojects under FRF/CISF        target, it should be understood that achievement should have



1
    Unless otherwise specified, achievement data come from the SDF Final Results Framework Achievement Table


                                                                                     33
 Original PAD Indicator/Project        SDF Results Framework
         Paper Indicator                Indicator with Target                    Achievement1                                          Notes
women, beneficiary satisfaction,                                        (flood and cyclone phases):       been even higher.
technical quality, cost-                                                TOTAL: 1,734                      SOURCE: PCR
effectiveness and operation and
maintenance.
Original PAD: Minimum 50             Consolidation: Number of
                                                                        736 GSs (77% of total
percent of community                 GSs that have mobilized
                                                                        consolidation villages) have      The project did not report directly on the original PAD
infrastructure sub-projects          O&M funds/resources to
                                                                        mobilized O&M                     indicator. However, the indicator from the SDF results
effectively managed and              cover their costs, if necessary.
                                                                        funds/resources                   framework has been taken as a proxy here.
maintained by community groups       Target: 760 GSs (80% of
                                                                        (97% of target)
by EOP                               consolidation villages)



Livelihoods
                          Original PAD
                     Indicator/Project Paper     SDF Results Framework Indicator
     Category               Indicator                         with Target                         Achievement1                                    Notes
                                                 Consolidation: percentage of target
                                                                                         85% of target beneficiaries are   The SDF Results Framework indicator is a proxy
                                                 beneficiaries are members of
                                                                                         members of JGs and engaged        for the outcome from the consolidation project
                                                 Jibikayan Groups (JGs) and engaged
                                                                                         in savings (106% of target)       paper, as the wording in the project paper is
                    Consolidation Project        in savings
                                                                                                                           inconclusive.
Savings             Paper: ―Savings              Target: 80%
                    mobilized‖                   Consolidation: Total amount of
                                                                                         92 million taka saved by
                                                 savings accumulated by Jibikayan                                          SOURCE: ―Overall project progress as on June
                                                                                         Jibikayan Groups
                                                 Groups                                                                    30, 2011‖ document
                                                                                         (65% of target)
                                                 Target: 141 million taka2




1
    Unless otherwise specified, achievement data come from the SDF Final Results Framework Achievement Table
2
    On 9 November 2011, US$ 1 equalled 76.47 taka:


                                                                                       34
                  Original PAD
             Indicator/Project Paper      SDF Results Framework Indicator
  Category          Indicator                          with Target                        Achievement1                                    Notes
                                          Consolidation: percentage of target     35% of target beneficiaries
                                                                                                                   Note that this data comes from field visits on a
                                          beneficiaries that have increased       have increased their
                                                                                                                   quarterly basis and not the village matrix/MIS
                                          their incremental income by at least    incremental income by at least
                                                                                                                   system, but is still part of the SDF Results
                                          50%                                     50% (70% of target)
                                                                                                                   Framework Table
             N/A                          Target: 50%
                                                                                                                   SOURCE: ICRR analysis based on financial
                                          Consolidation: Increase in monthly      1,314 taka increase in monthly
                                                                                                                   models developed in 2009 by SDF on the basis of
                                          income between project formation        income related to income
                                                                                                                   field investigations with a representative sample of
                                          and project closing                     generating activities
                                                                                                                   loan recipients.
                                          Flood: Number of JG members
             Flood Project Paper:                                                 2,739 members
Income                                    accessing Shabalombi Fund for                                            The SDF Results Framework indicator is a proxy
             Livelihood of very poor                                              (approximately 29% of
                                          livelihood and income generating                                         for the outcome from the flood project paper, as the
             people affected by floods                                            targeted members)
                                          activities                                                               wording in the project paper is rather vague.
             is restored
                                          Target: 9,570 members
             Cyclone Project Paper:
                                          Cyclone: Number of affected
             Evidence of incremental
                                          unemployed youth (HCP, poor) that
             employment and
                                          have accessed loans/funds from skill    1,514 youth (34% of target)
             increased income of target
                                          development training and started
             families, with at least
                                          income generating activities.
             70% generating 20%
                                          Target: 4,500 (60% of total youth)
             more income

                                                                                  5.76 million employment days
             N/A                          N/A                                                                      SOURCE: PCR
                                                                                  generated

                                          Flood:
Employment
             Flood Project Paper:          Number of employment days
                                                                                  421,709 employment days          The SDF Results Framework indicator is a proxy
             Livelihood of very poor      generated for the flood affected
                                                                                  generated (70% of target)        for the outcome from the flood project paper, as the
             people affected by floods    community in the target villages
                                                                                                                   wording in the project paper is rather vague.
             is restored                  through the provision of community
                                          infrastructure works


                                                                                 35
                          Original PAD
                     Indicator/Project Paper     SDF Results Framework Indicator
      Category              Indicator                        with Target                         Achievement1                                  Notes
                                                 Target: 600,000 days




                    Cyclone Project Paper:
                                                 Cyclone:
                    Evidence of incremental
                                                 Number of employment days                                              The project did not report directly on the original
                    employment and
                                                 generated for the cyclone affected     78,154 days (20% of target)     PAD indicator. However, the indicator from the
                    increased income of target
                                                 communities through CISF                                               SDF results framework has been taken as a proxy
                    families, with at least
                                                 activities.                                                            here.
                    70% generating 20%
                                                 Target: 400,000 employment days
                    more income



Scaling Up and Policy Level Mainstreaming of Community-Driven Development



    Original PAD Indicator/Project       SDF Results Framework
           Paper Indicator                Indicator with Target                   Achievement1                                             Notes
                                      The capacity of the project                                          There is no data available with which to report on the original
                                      implementing agency in                                               PAD PDO indicator. However, a rough proxy of measuring
Original PAD: Community-driven
                                      conducting, supporting and        452 GSs (48% of villages)          capacity of the project implementing agency has been selected
development principles adopted as
                                      monitoring field operation has    accessed funds within the          with the assumption that a strong SDF will contribute towards the
a policy, local planning, and
                                      been strengthened as measured     stipulated time frame (as per      longer-term application of community-driven development
implementation of small scale
                                      through number of Gram            agreed service standard).          principles at policy level.
infrastructure by EOP
                                      Samitys having accessed funds     (59% of target)                    Further, in the original PAD, there was no PDO level indicator
                                      within the stipulated time                                           directly related to strengthening SDF, however there was one at
                                      frame (as per agreed service                                         the output level: ―SDF strengthened and providing high quality



1
    Unless otherwise specified, achievement data come from the SDF Final Results Framework Achievement Table


                                                                                      36
Original PAD Indicator/Project      SDF Results Framework
       Paper Indicator                Indicator with Target            Achievement1                                            Notes
                                 standard)                                                        participatory planning, management, M&L and IC services to
                                 Target: 760 GSs (80% of                                          support the program.‖
                                 villages)




Reduction of Vulnerability


Original PAD Indicator/Project     SDF Results Framework
       Paper Indicator              Indicator with Target               Achievement                                           Notes
                                                              65,000 rural poor in 22 villages
                                                              benefited from pilot health
Original PAD: Increased
                                                              program which included
awareness and opportunities to
                                                              activities in awareness raising,
reduce vulnerability
                                                              capacity building and access to
                                                              local level health care services.




                                                                           37
                               Annex 3 – Outputs by Component

This annex provides information on output achievements by project component. The four components
of the project remained the same throughout the additional financings, with some changes in approach
made at the sub-component level. The original components (from the PAD), followed by sub-
components (where applicable), were as follows:
Strengthening SDF: (i) information and communication (IC); (ii) capacity building of SDF; (iii)
monitoring and learning (M&L); and (iv) project management support.
Institutional development at the community-level: (i) information and communication campaign;
(ii) formation and strengthening of Village Development Committees (VDCs), Community Groups
(CGs), and the project management committees of CGs, and developing a demand-led CAP.
Implementation of Community Action Plans
Pilot private financing in community utilities
A summary of achievements of the component and sub-component level are as follows. Further
information on component-related outputs is provided in the tables in the appendix to this annex.
Under Component 1 (Strengthening SDF), implementation arrangements were established and
development of staff capacities occurred in order to facilitate smooth and timely implementation of the
project.
Under sub-component (i) information and communication, communication campaigns were
conducted at the village level to raise awareness of the project and develop community buy-in.
Under sub-component (ii) capacity building of SDF, SDF staff went through a range of trainings,
including exposure visits to Sri Lanka and India, as well as training on procurement.
Under sub-component (iii) monitoring and learning, a process monitoring mechanism was
established, a centralized MIS was developed prior to MTR changes, followed by a decentralized MIS
system post MTR (however, as mentioned above, the new MIS was not fully utilized), the village
matrix, a data gathering tool developed in collaboration with communities, was implemented, and
monthly monitoring workshops were conducted at the cluster and district level, during which concerns
were raised and action plans were drawn up to address concerns.
Under sub-component (iv) project management support, community level SDF representatives,
Cluster Facilitators, facilitated the process of village institution development, including building
capacities in financial management, procurement and project management. Further, during
implementation of the flood and cyclone additional financings, training and capacity building in
disaster risk management (DRM) came under this sub-component.
Under Component 2 (Institutional development at the community level), institutions were
developed at the community level that have led to many positive outcomes under the project
(discussed in the ICRR main text). The original PAD makes reference to Village Development
Committees (VDCs), however, as mentioned in the main report, the institutional approach at village
level changed after the MTR. The new model developed Jibikayan Groups (JGs), Gram Parishads
(GPs) and Gram Samitys (GSs), therefore achievements related to this component are reported in
terms of GPs, GSs and JGs, and not the original VDCs. In terms of overall component-level outputs,
SDF reports that 830 villages have regular quarterly Gram Parishad meetings, which are attended by at
least 80% of target members.



                                                  38
Under sub-component (i) information and communication (IC) campaign, partner organizations
initially led the IC campaigns at the village level, with SDF taking over after the shift in
implementation modality. These included village visits, posters depicting the project through the use
of pictures as well as Bangla language, and focus group discussions.
Under sub-component (ii) formation and strengthening of VDCs, as mentioned above, due to the
change in institutional model, outputs here are measured in terms of GPs, GSs and JGs. Overall,
institutions were built in 943 villages, with 830 of them having regular quarterly Gram Parishad
meetings, attended by at least 80 percent of target members. In addition to JGs, GPs and GS, Village
Credit Organizations (VCOs), Social Audit Committees (SACs), procurement committees, finance
committees and operations and maintenance committees were established – each charged with
different responsibilities in the context of the overall development of the village. Further, the
institutions developed were inclusive, with all 943 of Gram Samitys having at least 50 percent of
decision making positions occupied by poor or hardcore poor women. Additionally, under the flood
and cyclone additional financings, Village Disaster Management Committees (VDMCs) were
developed, that were charged with implementation of disaster prevention activities. The institution
building that came under this component contributed strongly to achievement of the PDO and is one of
the most successful parts of the project.
Under Component 3 (Implementation of Community Action Plans), a variety of outputs were
achieved. A total of 1,734 infrastructure sub-projects were completed (mainly roads, culverts, tube
wells and rehabilitation of school grounds). About 730 Gram Samity multipurpose offices have been
established. JG and GP members gained access to loans for livelihood strengthening, as well as loans
for youth skill development. Further, vulnerable community members received seed capital and one
time grants under this component. Also, a health program was implemented from October 2004 to
June 2007, which reached 65,000 rural poor in 22 villages and led to awareness raising, capacity
building and access to local level health care services. This component also included the monga pilot
project, which provided (i) skills development training; (ii) seed capital grants to HCP families who
didn‘t meet selection criteria for micro-credit; (iii) employment generation through community
infrastructure; and (iv) provision of micro-credit. Further, under the flood and cyclone additional
financings, rehabilitation of flood/cyclone damaged infrastructure took place, as well as the
development of community disaster response plans.
Under Component 4 (Pilot private financing in community utilities), project resources were
channeled to leverage private financing of piped water supply to communities through matching
grants. Overall, 3,600 households were connected to water supplies with 11,000 people benefiting
from clean water.
Finally, information has been provided about the outputs under additional financing II (flood), which
was implemented by PKSF, under which micro finance activities took place.




                                                 39
Annex 3 – Attachment 1

This appendix provides quantitative information on output achievements by project component.
Achievements are broken down by consolidation phase (original + additional financing I), flood
(additional financing II) and cyclone (additional financing III). The main source of this data is the SDF
Final Results Framework Achievement Table, however some data derive from the June 2011 World
Bank Aide-Memoire and are noted with (AM) following the indicator.
Consolidation
  Component                         Indicator                              Target             Achievement
                   Number of GSs having accessed funds
                                                                                          453 (48% villages)
                   within the stipulated time frame (as per       760 (80% villages)
                                                                                          (60% of target)
                   agreed service standard)
1. Strengthening
                    percentage of issues identified by
SDF
                   Process Monitoring Agencies that have                                  86%
                                                                  80%
                   been resolved through corrective measure                               (107% of target)
                   and timely action on a monthly basis
                   Number of GS having at least 50% of
                                                                                          943 (100%) (124% of
                   decision making positions occupied by          760 (80% of villages)
                                                                                          target)
                   women (poor or HCP)
                   Number of villages having regular
                   quarterly Gram Parishad (GP) meeting                                   830 (88%)
                                                                  760 (80% of villages)
                   and attended by at least 80% of target                                 (109% of target)
                   members (50% women)
                   Number of Social Audit Committees
2. Institutional                                                                          822 (87%)
                   (SAC) that are functioning and reporting       760 (80% of villages)
Development at                                                                            (108% of target)
                   to the GP on a quarterly basis
the Community
                   Number of GSs with all financial and
Level                                                                                     783 (83%)
                   benefit information displayed and              760 (80% of villages)
                                                                                          (103% of target)
                   updated on a monthly basis
                    percentage of target beneficiaries that are
                                                                                          85%
                   members of Jibikayan Groups (JGs) and          80%
                                                                                          (106% of target)
                   engaged in savings.
                   Village accessed first, second and third                               822 (90% of target),
                   installments of Village Development            943 for each            448 (48% of target),
                   Funds (VDF), respectively (AM)                                         212 (22% of target)
                   Number of Gram Samity (GS) covering at
                   least 80% of target households that have                               822 (87% of Gram
                                                                  760 (80% of Gram
                   accessed the Village Development Fund                                  Samitys)
                                                                  Samitys)
                   (VDF) and managed it according to the                                  (108% of target)
                   project rules and guidelines
                    Percentage of the members of JGs
3.                 accessed the Livelihood Assistance Fund        80% (143,500            46% (81,810)
Implementation     and started income generation activities.      members)                (58% of target)
of Community
Action Plans       Number of most vulnerable people that                                  14,194 received grant
                   have received assistance (one time grant)                              (142% of target, 9,000
                                                                  9,975
                   and accessed the Livelihood Assistance                                 accessed fund (90% of
                   Fund                                                                   target)
                   Number of poor and HCP youth that have                                 8,092 accessed loans
                   accessed loans for skill development and       14,250                  (58% of target), 6,539
                   started income generating activities or                                have been employed


                                                       40
  Component                         Indicator                           Target             Achievement
                   linked to employment                                                (46% of target)
                    percentage of the target beneficiaries
                                                                                       35%
                   have increased their incremental income     50%
                                                                                       (70% of target)
                   by at least 50%
                    percentage of target households that has
                                                               80% (143,500            46% (81,800)
                   increased their incremental income at
                                                               households)             (58% of target)
                   least by 20%
                   Number of GS that have mobilize O&M
                                                                                       736 (77% of villages)
                   funds/ resources to cover their cost, if    760 (80% of villages)
                                                                                       (97% of target)
                   necessary
                   Number of GS implementing O&M plan                                  767 (81% of villages)
                                                               760 (80% of villages)
                   annually                                                            (101% of target)
                   Number of Community Resource Persons
                   (CRPs) developed and providing service                              975
                                                               3800
                   to other communities                                                (25% of target)

                                                                                       2250 HHs
                                                                                       (63% of target)
4. Pilot Private   Number of House level connections
                                                               3,600 HHs               Source: Water Pilot
Financing in       made and getting water.
                                                                                       Project Completion
Community
                                                                                       Report
Utilities
                   Number of people benefiting from clean
                                                               36,000                  11,000 (31% of target)
                   water



Flood
   Component                        Indicator                           Target             Achievement
1. Strengthening   Number of village organizations set-up
SDF and            early warning systems and trained in                                203
                                                               300
Program            providing help to the community                                     (68% of target)
Management         members during emergencies
                   Number of villages accessed FRF for
                                                                                       297
                   flood risk reduction and utilized fund as   300
                                                                                       (99% of target)
                   per COM and guideline
                   Number of hard core poor mobilized into
                                                               N/A                     17,139
                   1,516 JGs, 179 SSCs and 99 VCOs (AM)
                   Number of village organizations have
                   formed disaster management committees                               300
                                                               300
                   and are implementing disaster risk                                  (100% of target)
2. Institutional   mitigation plan
Development at     Number of village organizations that have
                                                                                       103
the Community      utilized emergency funds and recovered      300
                                                                                       (34% of target)
Level              the fund
                   Number of villages organized youth
                                                                                       300
                   volunteer team and provided assistance      300
                                                                                       (100% of target)
                   during the flood
                   Number of villages have O&M plan and                                297
                                                               300
                   implemented as per plan                                             (99% of target)
                   Number of villages that received first,                             200, 117 and 37 (out
                   second and third instalment of Flood        200                     of 200 consolidation
                   Rehabilitation Fund (FRF), respectively                             villages)


                                                     41
    Component                          Indicator                           Target                  Achievement
                     (AM)
                     Number of villages received first and                                   97 and 21 (out of 100
                                                                   100 Non-
                     second installments of Institution                                      non-consolidation
                                                                   consolidation villages
                     Development Fund, respectively (AM)                                     villages)
                     Number of households directly benefited
                                                                                             91,300 HHs
                     from improved village community               105,000 HHs
                                                                                             (87% of target)
                     infrastructures (flood-resistant)
                     Number of employment days generated
                     for the flood affected community in the       600,000 employment        421,709
                     target villages through the provision of      days                      (70% of target)
                     community infrastructure works
                     Number of villages received first, second
                     and third installments of Community                                     97, 74 and 2 (out of
3.                                                                 100 villages
                     Infrastructure and Services Fund,                                       100 new villages)
Implementation
                     respectively (AM)
of Community
                      percentage of affected youth that have                                 776 youth accessed
Action Plan
                     accessed loans from skill development                                   loans (59% of target),
                                                                   1,318
                     training and started income generating                                  450 youth employed
                     activities                                                              (34% of target)
                                                                                             1,321 received
                     Number of most vulnerable people that                                   assistance (one time
                     have received assistance (one time grant)                               grant) funds for
                                                                   1,327
                     and accessed the livelihoods assistance                                 livelihood
                     funds                                                                   development
                                                                                             (99% of target)
                     Funds released and disbursed as loans to
                                                                                             US$ 15 million
                     270,317 beneficiary households (from          US$ 15 million
                                                                                             (100% of target)
                     PKSF Project Report)
PKSF Activities      Recovery rate of loans provided at PKSF-
                     PO level and PO-beneficiary household
                                                                   100%, 100%                100% , 99%
                     levels, respectively (from PKSF Project
                     Report)
4. Pilot Private
                     Separate pilot private financing activities
Financing in
                     were not initiated under this additional
Community
                     financing.
Utilities



Flood PKSF
                     Indicator                                           Target                  Achievement
On Time Repayment Rate for PKSF Loans                                                       73.5%1



Cyclone
    Component                         Indicator                            Target                  Achievement
1. Strengthening        Number of village organizations set-up     400                       250



1
    This figure comes from the draft PKSF Impact Assessment (p.3-9). However, as the draft was not finalized,
     some findings, including this one, are still under discussion.


                                                          42
   Component                       Indicator                           Target       Achievement
SDF and Program     early warning systems and trained in                        (63% of target)
Management          providing help to the community
                    members during emergencies
                    Cumulative funds disbursed to                               US$ 6.23 million
                                                              N/A
                    communities (AM)                                            (62% of allocation)
                    Number of GS having at least 50% of
                                                                                353
                    decision making positions occupied by     475
                                                                                (74% of target)
                    women (poor or HCP)
                    Number of villages having regular
                    quarterly Gram Parishad (GP)                                353
                                                              400
                    meetings and attended by at least 70%                       (88% of target)
                    of target members (50% women)
                    Number of villages have 70% of target
                                                                                353
                    HHs mobilized into livelihood groups      350
2. Institutional                                                                (101% of target)
                    and started savings
Development at
                    Number of villages with institutions of
Community Level                                                                 353
                    the hard core poor and poor (GP, GS,      500
                                                                                (71% of target)
                    SAC) formed and functioning
                                                                                267 accessed first
                    Number of village institutions accessed
                                                                                instalment, 12
                    first and second installments of          400
                                                                                accessed second
                    Institution Development Fund (AM)
                                                                                installment
                    Number of villages acquired land for
                    construction of disaster proof Gram       400               201
                    Samity Offices
                    Number of GS covering at least 70%
                    of target households that have accessed
                                                                                338
                    the Village Development & Risk            400
                                                                                (85% of target)
                    Reduction Fund and managed fund
                    according to the agreed rules
                    Number of targeted households
                                                              55,000 (60% of
                    accessing employment generation                             55,000 (60%)
                                                              households)
                    schemes through the provision of CISF                       (100% of target)
                    activities
                    Number of target households benefit
                    from project intervention (SF,
                                                                                7,243
                    infrastructure, skill development,        30,000
                                                                                (24% of target)
3. Implementation   savings and credit) and have started
of Community        income generating activities
Action Plan         Number of employment days
                                                                                78,154
                    generated for the Cyclone affected        400,000
                                                                                 (20% of target)
                    communities through CISF activities
                    Number of affected unemployed youth
                    (HCP, Poor) that have accessed
                                                                                1,514
                    loans/funds from skill development        4,500
                                                                                (34% of target)
                    training and started income generating
                    activities
                                                                                1,840 received grant,
                    Number of most vulnerable people that
                                                                                604 are employed or
                    have received assistance (one time
                                                              2,250             started self
                    grant) and accessed the livelihood
                                                                                employment
                    assistance fund
                                                                                (82% of target)


                                                    43
    Component                    Indicator                          Target                 Achievement
                                                                                      248 accessed first
                   Number of villages accessing the first,
                                                                                      installment, 47
                   second and third installments of the
                                                             400 (at least 80%)       accessed second
                   Community Infrastructure Services
                                                                                      installment, 1 accessed
                   Fund (CISF), respectively (AM)
                                                                                      third installment
                   Number of JG members qualified and                                 7,243 (out of 30,000
                   received Shabalombi Fund loans (AM)                                total members)
                                                             400 (80% of villages,
                   Number of infrastructure sub-projects
                                                             with at least one sub-   388 sub-projects
                   funded and completed, respectively
                                                             project completed per    funded, 92 completed
                   (AM)
                                                             village)
                                                                                      So far, 22 villages
4. Pilot Private
                                                                                      have been covered
Financing in       No. of Villages mobilized under E-
                                                             89                       under ICT Pilot
Community          Upazila ICT pilot program.
                                                                                      program.
Utilities
                                                                                      (25% of target)




                                                   44
                               Annex 4 – Financial and Economic Analysis

Actual Project Expenditures

The total allocation for SIPP-1 was US$ 64.22 million (after cancellation of US$ 40 million under the
third AF) financed by the original credit and the three additional financings. The total disbursement of
the project was slightly lower than expected, reaching however 94% of the allocated funds. <the
following Table is based on data provided by SDF at project completion.
                                                                        Total
                                      Project Budget (PAD)
                                                                      Budget              Actual
          Financing                    Govt.             IDA         allocation        Disbursement        % disbursed
Original + consolidation               2.51              26.24          28.75              27.98              97%
Flood Additional Financing             0.67              25.00          25.67              22.94              89%
Cyclone Additional Financing                             10.00         10.00*               9.38              94%
TOTAL                                   2.98             61.24          64.22              60.30              94%
(*) after cancellation of US$ 40 Million transferred to the Health Sector Development Program.

The following Table provides the breakdown of actual expenses by component. While in the original
PAD component, community institutional development
                                                             Flood                                 % of total
                                               Orig. +       Add.        Cyclone                     (w/o        % on
    Project Components (M USD)                 Consol.        Fin.       Add. Fin.     TOTAL        PKSF)        total
1. Strengthening of SDF and Project
                                            4.97            0.97         1.69          7.63        16.8%         12.7%
management
2. Institutional Development at
                                            2.01            1.69         1.3           5           11.0%         8.3%
Community Level
3. Implementation of Community
                                            20.63           5.27         6.36          32.26       71.2%         53.5%
Action Plans
4. Pilot Pvt. Financing of Community
                                            0.37            0.01         0.02          0.4         0.9%          0.7%
Utilities
Sub-total                                   27.98           7.94         9.37          45.25       100.0%        75.1%
Livelihood Restoration (PKSF)                               15                         15                        24.9%
                                                                                                                 100.0
Total                                       27.98           22.94        9.37          60.29
                                                                                                                 %



The following Table provides the breakdown of WB credits and grants by expenditure categories.
                                                                                                     Total
                                         Original        Consolidation         Flood   Cyclone      SIPP-I      TOTAL
Community grants                          13.780             5.616             3.414       5.258    28.068       67%
Goods and vehicles                         326               226                230         503       1.285      3%
Contracts, capacity development           4.729              563                863        1.196      7.351      18%
Staff and operating costs                 1.074              585                356         902       2.917      7%
           Miscellaneous                   394               124                166        1.453      2.138      5%
                Total                     20.303             7.115             5.029       9.313    41.759      100%




                                                             45
Financial Analysis

The financial analysis aims to evaluate financial impact of project at household level. An analysis was
undertaken in March 2009 by SDF focused on income generating activities financed promoted by the
project through the livelihood fund. Borrowers invested the loans in different income generating
activities, spanning from livestock rearing to small trade to other micro enterprises. From the 3,768
sample of interviewed people, around 2,324 beneficiaries (62%) invested in livestock rearing /
fattening: 34 percent in goat rearing, 26 percent in duck and hen rearing – ―poultry‖, 31 percent in beef
fattening and 10 percent in dairy cow. Based on extensive field interviews, representative activity
models were developed to work out cost benefit analysis of these IGAs. The following Table
summarizes the average net income per households in 2009 prices and in 2011 price.


   Main IGA (VCO loans)                Average annual               Annual average        Monthly income (2011
        Income in BDT               income (2009 prices)          income (2011 prices)          prices)
Cattle rearing                             12,360                       14,252                   1,188
Goat rearing                               13,000                       14,990                   1,249
Rickshaw as IGA                            27,300                       31,478                   2,623
Paddy Husking                              11,520                       13,283                   1,107
                                   Weighted Average                                              1,314
The weighted average is about 1,314 BDT (US$ 17.5) per beneficiary.

A means of verification is provided by the independent final impact assessment undertaken in 2011 –
after the project closure. The assessment, measured among others, the perceived increase in income,
comparing the past with the current situation. Although the baseline and results are different in the two
intervention areas (Jamalpur and Gaibanda districts), the results show similar and quite substantial
positive progress. The following Table provides a summary of perceived income per household before
and after project in the two project districts.
        Income / District                           Jamalpur                               Gaibanda
Income in the past                      Taka 500 – 1000 / month                Taka 300 – 700 per month
                                        Taka 2000 – 4000 or more subject       Taka 2500 – 5000 or more subject
Present Income
                                        to IGA                                 to IGA

In order to assess perceived increased income that could be attributed to the project: (i) a weighted
average was calculated in the project area; (ii) incomes before project (2004) were converted into 2011
prices (annual average inflation rate at 7.38%); (iii) in addition, these before project incomes were
converted into 2011 without project income by inflating them by the average GDP growth during the
project implementation period in order to distinguish what is attributable to the project (net of general
wealth improvement in the country). Under such assumptions, beneficiaries registered an average
increase of the monthly income of around 1,843 Tk. This is consistent with the 1,314 Tk. calculated
above who were incorporating all IGAs, including those interviewed people who had not entirely
succeeded in their businesses.

Income of project’s beneficiaries                                                          Average
Initial income - ―without‖ (at 2011 prices)                                                1508.36
Actual average income (at 2011 prices)                                                     3351.91
Income differential                                                                        1843.55

In conclusion, household incomes are estimated to have increased by about 1,300 Tks., corresponding
to a doubling of the family incomes.



                                                          46
Economic Analysis

The economic analysis aims at aggregating costs and benefits at project level. The following
assumptions were used:
       financial prices reflect economic values (i.e. no conversion rate was applied);
       project costs amount to US$ 60.3 million and were disbursed over a 8 year implementation
        period;
       conservatively only benefits from IGAs (as calculated above) were aggregated and
        progressively phased in starting in project year 5, i.e. after the MTR when IGAs were
        introduced;
At full development (project year 9), total incremental benefits were calculated by multiplying the
above net incomes per household per activity by the total number of borrowers from the livelihood
funds, i.e. 110,000 persons as shown in the following Table. It corresponds to a total of US$ 22.9
million per year;
The Economic Rate of Return was consequently calculated over a 20 year period at about 25.6 percent
                                                    Weighted
  Main IGA (VCO        Income per                   average                    Income (M   Income (M
        loans)            year       % of loans     Income       No of loans      BDT)        US$)
Livestock-related        14,621        62%           9,018         67,845          992        13.23
Rickshaw                 31,478         8%           2,448         8,554           269         3.59
Farm Product Sale        14,990         7%            975          7,152           107         1.43
Paddy Husking            13,283         5%            680          5,634            75         1.00
Small Trade              13,283        19%           2,513         20,815          276         3.69
Total                                 100%           15,634       110,000         1,720       22.93

Social benefits

The original PAD was basing its financial analysis on valuing social benefits resulting from the
construction of Community Infrastructure Works (CIW). As explained above, financial benefits are
considered to be mostly generated by IGAs, which form the basis for the financial analysis proposed
here. However, below are some indications of quantified social benefits from the main CIWs such as
Earthen roads, culverts, deep tube-wells and water pumps, which are the most representative
infrastructure. In summary, social benefits of the project are:
Empowerment of communities as a whole and of their female and poorest components in particular.
By giving them voices for debate, decision power and increased responsibilities, the project enabled
the poorest segments of the communities to decide and acquire the means to believe in and change
their future. The project also made communities increasingly proud of themselves;
Institutions created and strengthened through SIPP1 are a major social asset which, when sustainable,
could enable communities to further building their better future through all kind of activities desired
by the communities, be they village infrastructure, credit, joint businesses, etc.;
Improvement in the access to social services such as schools, health centres, communication and
information, markets, supply of goods not available in the village as a result of road and culvert
construction.
Connectivity time saved and better access to economic activities as a result of the improvement of
access roads and repair of culverts.


                                                   47
Earthen roads
Mobility and connectivity play a very crucial role in rural life. Illiteracy is mostly the fruit of
remoteness and difficulty in reaching the education structures. Mobility is a high potential vehicle for
development as increase people‘s capabilities and functioning. Data on benefits of earthen roads were
described in a report dated August 2010, around one year before the project‘s closure. In order to
estimate the number of beneficiaries, the assumption is that the largest share of expenditures on CIW
was undertaken towards the beginning of the project, and it can be assumed that the sample of the
analysis of such report is significant for the overall SIPP 1. Time saved from construction of earthen
works confirms the expected benefits, allowing an average saving of around 17 minutes per day per
beneficiaries, dedicated to (i) working for the family; and (ii) alternative employment.

Culverts
The construction of culverts had a positive impact on several sources of income: (i) increased income
from working for the construction (spot); (ii) agricultural production has become possible (flow); (iii)
mobility becomes easy (opportunity cost). It showed also a negative impact on fisheries (dropped by
60 percent). Land price has increased as a consequence of culverts, canal drains and roads. Some 65
percent of the beneficiaries of a survey undertaken during the project implementation confirmed that
land price has increased between two to three times. Some others confirmed that the value has
increased due to construction of houses and enterprises along the roadside.

Tube-wells
Tube-wells are mainly used for domestic purposes: mainly drinking water, and in a more limited
portion for also cooking (33 percent), washing clothes (29 percent) and sanitary purposes (24 percent).
A limited portion of beneficiaries has shown to use tube-wells for agriculture: slightly above 1 percent
for irrigation purposes and 3.4 percent to feed livestock. A report dated 2010 describes the impact of
tube-wells on beneficiaries‘ livelihoods, through direct savings and opportunity costs. Impacts on
health levels are reported to be significant (reduction of cases of various diseases, in order of
importance diarrhea (according to a report dated 2010 in the intervention areas it declines for 34
percent of beneficiaries), dysentery (30 percent), hepatitis (19 percent) and skin diseases (17 percent).
The average saving of health expenditures before and after the construction of tube-wells is around
1,135 BDT per family per year. Considering that the tube-wells are used on average by 25 households,
the total amount of savings generated by one tube-well is estimated to be around 28,375 BDT. Total
BDT spent in health per year per person (cost for treatment per person per year in BDT).
                                              BDT      BDT   BDT      BDT      BDT     BDT        BDT
before (average; classes of expenditure)      45       225   150      210      135     660        1,425
after (average; classes of expenditure)       240      15    0        35       0       0          290
total savings in health expenditures (BDT/year/HH):                                               1,135

Water pump through Public-private participation
Out of 6 water schemes, 5 schemes are based on ground water with utilization of pumps. The work is
concluded and the average cost per water scheme is 6,645,574 BDT, corresponding to around 96,600
USD per scheme calculated at the rate of conversion of the effective starting date. The works closed
with an average of 2 years of delay from the signature of the contract to the effective delivery of
services (supply of water to the beneficiaries), mainly due to initial disputes in finding available and
appropriate land. This caused a reduction in the flow of benefits for the targeted benefiting
households. The total number of targeted household beneficiaries of house connection from schemes
alimented by water pumps was 3,413.

                                                      48
       Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team Members
                                                                        Responsibility/
              Names                     Title               Unit          Specialty
LENDING
Wahida Huq                   Task Team Leader             SASRD
Jeeva Perumalpillai-Essex    Lead Operations Officer      SASRD
Gajanand Pathmanathan        Sector Manager               SASRD
Said Al Habsy                Chief Counsel                LEGMS
Kishor Uprety                Sr. Counsel                  LEGMS
L. Panneer Selvan            Regional Safeguard Coord
P.K. Subramanian             Sr. Financial Mgmt Spec.     SARFM
Chingboon Lee                Country Coordinator          SACBD
Enrique Pantoja              Country Officer              SACBD
Clive Harris                 Sr. Private Sector Spec.     SASEI
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi          Sr. Transport Engineer       SASEI
                             Sr. Rural Water Supply and
Khawaja Minnatullah                                       EWDSA
                             Sanitation Spec.
G.M. Khurshid Alam           Sr. Private Sector Spec.     SASFP
Nilufar Ahmad                Sr. Social Scientist         SASES
Jeffrey Racki                Sector Manager               SASES
Ivonna Teresa Kratynski      Sr. Finance Officer          LOAG2
Zafrul Islam                 Sr. Procurement Spec.        SARPS
Agustin Litvak               Procurement Advisor          SARPS
Suraiya Zannath              Sr. Fin. Mgmt Spec.          SARFM
Paul J. Martin               Sr. Environmental Spec.      SASES
Mohammad Sayeed              Disbursement Officer         SARFM
Marilou Uy                   Sector Director              SASFP
Shakila Khan                 Program Assistant            SASRD
Deborah Ricks                Program Assistant            SASRD
SUPERVISION/ICRR
Ousmane Seck                 Task Team Leader             SASDA
Meena Munshi                 Former Task Team Leader      SASDA
Parmesh Shah                 Lead Rural Dev. Spec.        SASDA
Pushina Kunda Ng‘andwe       Rural Development Spec.      SASDA
Sugata Talukder              Operations Analyst           SASDA
Suraiya Zannath              Sr. Financial Mgmt. Spec.    SARFM    Financial Mgmt.
Ghazali Raheem               Consultant (FAO)             FAO      M&E Specialist
Marghoob Hussein             Sr. Procurement Spec.        SARPS
Toufiq Ahmed                 Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Nadia Sharmin                Environmental Spec.          SASDI
                             Sr. Natural Resources
Yuka Makino                                               SASDI
                             Management Spec.
Moyeen Sabah                 Social Development Analyst   SASDS
Brenda L. Scott              Information Assistant        SASDO


                                            49
                                                                         Responsibility/
               Names                Title                Unit              Specialty
Amani Haque               Program Assistant            SASDO
Henry Bagazonzya          Sr. Financial Sector Spec.   SASFP
Winston Dawes             Rural Financial Spec.        SASDA
                          Community Development
C.S. Renjit                                            Consultant   Resource to SDF
                          Specialist
                          Senior Environmental
Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi                                  SASDI
                          Specialist
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi       Sr. Transport Engineer       SASEI        Community Infras.
                          Sr. Rural Development
Natasha Hayward                                        SASDA
                          Specialist
                                                                    Project Operational and
Farzana Morshed           Operations Analyst           SASRD
                                                                    Youth
Mohammad A. Sadeque       Procurement Specialist                    Procurement
Melissa Williams          Operations Officer           SASDA
                          Sr. Rural Development
Samik Sundar Das                                       SASDA
                          Specialist
Amin Khandaker            Consultant
Mona Sur                  Sr. Economist                SASDA
                          Sr. Rural Water Supply and
Khawaja Minnatullah                                    SASDN        Piped Water Pilot
                          Sanitation Spec.
                          Community Financing
Anne Ritchie                                           SASDA
                          (Consultant)
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd   Community Financing
Shakila Khan Tandra       Program Assistant            SASDO
Erwin De Nys              Sr. Water Resource Spec.     LCSEN        Institutions and M&E
Vinayak Narayan Ghatate   Consultant                   SASDA        Livelihood
Luis Coirolo              Consultant                   SASDA        Resource to SDF
Mohinder S. Mudahar       Consultant                   SASAR        Economic Advisor
C.S. Reddy                Consultant                   SASAR        Resource to SDF
Harbans Lal Aneja         Consultant                   SARPS        Procurement
Imtiaz Uddin Ahmad        Consultant                                Institutions
Md. Abul Kalam Khalifa    Consultant                                Engineer
Subrata S. Dhar           Sr. Commication Officer      SAREX        Information Comm.
Sadia Afroze Chowdhury    Sr. Public Health Spec.      SASHD        Health Pilots
                          Social Assess. Program &
Maitreya B. Das
                          Baseline Survey
Prasad Chandra Mohan      Sr. Communication Spec.




                                          50
Staff Time and Cost


                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               US Dollars
                                                          (including travel and
   Stage of Project Cycle   No. of Staff Weeks              consultant costs)
LENDING
            FY03                  37.01                         62,625.01
            FY04
            FY05
            FY06
            FY07

          TOTAL:                  37.01                         62,625.01

    SUPERVISION/ICRR
         FY03                      9.22                         33,320.36
         FY04                     39.29                         90,054.35
         FY05                     50.76                        120,035.11
         FY06                      47.8                        154,548.75
         FY07                     39.87                         92,904.54
         FY08                     32.46                        108,699.37
         FY09                     33.53                        111,076.18
         FY10                     24.97                         88,071.21
         FY11                     32.77                        104,331.33
         FY12                      7.52                         16,050.99

TOTAL:                           318.19                        919,092.19




                                   51
                            Annex 6 – Beneficiary Survey Results

This Annex provides a very preliminary version of the main findings from an independent beneficiary
survey that was undertaken after project completion.

Highlights of findings of IAS

The findings of the household survey conducted in Consolidated Phase areas:

Housing, water and sanitation
      There has been improvement in the condition of the dwelling house. Straw (53%) to Roof
       (3%); CI 32-96% and Brick wall 0.58-1.0%. Now many of them have corrugated Iron (CI)
       roofed houses whereas before the project, only a few had them
      The tube well coverage (has increased from 70% to 98.67% indicating more availability of
       safe drinking water.
      The hygienic latrine coverage has registered a sharp improvement from 11.50% to 65.92%
       after the project interventions.

Food in-take
      Now a little less than two third (about 60%) of the households have 3 meals per day. Before
       the project intervention, the figure was only 8.05%.

Savings and credit
      Before the project only 8.25% had savings and now their number has increased to 97.92%.
      About 82.33 of the households currently have access to credit as members of the Jibikayon
       groups.

Household asset
      Presently livestock population like cattle, buffaloes, goat/ sheep etc have increased by 82.33%
       in the project.
      The value of livestock has also increased manifold due to increased number of livestock and
       improvement of the quality of product and also decrease of animal diseases.

Migration and employment
      There is diversified short term seasonal out migration for employment due to the awareness
       about the labor market. However, long duration migration has remarkably reduced as they
       happen to come back to the villages since they can get loan and training from the project for
       income generating activities. Mentionable that their gainful employment opportunities have
       increased 20%.

Community Infrastructure works (CIWs)
      The infrastructure facilities provide multiple benefits to the communities. Some of the benefits
       are easy access to markets, communication within the village and to towns, reduction in
       communication time, increased in trade facilities, Business and Commerce (48%), increased


                                                 52
       attendance (58%) of the students in schools and facilitated marketing of agricultural products
       (39%). About 52% respondents reported about the increase the value of land. About 55%
       reported an increase of their social status in the communities.

Women’s Advancement
      Women now increasingly participating in the decision making process. In terms of loans -
       39% participate in joint decision making and 81% in lone decision making, concerning
       savings and credit- about 23% are participating as against 12% in the past. In income
       generating activities 91% are participating in the decision making.
      Now women also enjoy greater social status than before as they now participate in income
       generating activities and social and organizational activities. 99% of the respondents reported
       their increase in social status. The poor women beneficiaries are participating in various social
       activities and are even contesting and getting elected in Local Govt. Institutions- Union
       Parishad.

Youth Development
      Youths receiving fund for skill development training and such training have helped them to
       access to wage employment outside of the community and also paving a way to self
       employment.
      The project intervention has impacted on these youths in creating a level of confidence in
       them in joining the development mainstream and thereby reducing social evils like addiction,
       social crime etc.
The findings of the household survey: Flood/Cyclone affected areas.

Community Infrastructure works (CIWs)
      About 66% of the respondents reported that CIWs made easy communication and save time.
       Moreover, 55% reported that it facilitated trade and commerce, land value increased as
       reported by 27%.
      97% targeted HHs participated at different stages of CIW and 64% HHs earned wages.
      It appeared that attendance increase by 30% and the student‘s enrolment is 29% about and
       increase in cropping intensity more than 17% in the project areas.
      Availability of safe drinking water has increased by 31% and time for drinking water
       collection reduces by 32% and water born diseases decrease by 29%.

Disaster preparedness
      About 99% of the respondents HHs participated in the disaster plan preparation process
       (identification of the disaster vulnerable points or areas in the locality, communication
       mechanism for the dissemination of disaster related information and coping up mechanism in
       times of need).
      About 100% respondents reported to have increased the awareness on disaster preparedness
       activities.
      Equipment like radio, hand mikes, life savings jackets, siren and fast aid box was procured
       and it the availability and usages known about 89% of the respondent communities.


                                                  53
       Disaster Management Committee (DMC) are formed in all project villages and mock drill on
        disaster preparedness is ongoing.
Disaster Support funds are being accumulated by the communities.

Findings of Livelihood Study

This livelihood cycle or path refers to the financial capacity enhancement and gradually up scaling
their livelihood options over time. As observed, the cycle included four stages of livelihood
development under credit support starting from 1st to 4th loan. This attributes that the poor women have
both horizontally and vertically moved from their existing position and availed finance to improve
their livelihood and ensured household income.
It is evident that during first cycle of loan which was grant or seed money three items of small scale
domestic livestock rearing and consumption need have been supported. From 2 nd to 4th loan through
their internal lending and Shabolambi loan livestock, small shop, rickshaw van, small trade, sewing,
farming, fish pond, milk cow, nursery and lease of land were undertaken. This implies that upon
capacity building they have moved to capital intensive IGA and finally to asset possession or creation
with the single aim of increasing income. The internal loan with small amount while paved the way for
credit utilization the Shabolambi loan with increased amount have built in them the entrepreneurship
as a small individual.

Findings of Institutional Study

       Members of all institutions are aware about their roles and responsibilities
       Organizational records, documents are well maintained
       Records of participation of members are documented
       Savings system is well organized
       Loans are timely distributed
       SSCs and VCOs are contributing in maintaining discipline in loan activities
       SACs conducts social audit as per guidelines/COM.
       A model development model for women leadership in poor and ultra-poor community has
        been established.
Despite all the above mentioned positive findings, the following achievements have also emerged
from the field findings:
       Regular attendance in the meeting is increasing.
       More leadership are gradually growing.
       The wider vision for social-economic development is growing.
       Communities are now gradually developing the capacity for writing the meeting minutes,
        resolutions, accounts ledgers, vouchers, accounts statements, etc.
       Expectation of loan size has increased which reflect the demand for higher level of
        investment.
       The new IGAs are being undertaken by the community.



                                                   54
Economic analysis of CIW Findings

Rural Road
      Producer Surplus. Producers of these areas are enjoying about 3% agriculture producer
       surplus than before due to the better communication system. Village roads had a positive
       impact in bringing down the transportation costs of the agricultural commodities.
      Vehicle Operating Cost Savings. Average cost savings per motorized vehicle has been
       estimated as 1.0 tk/km based on rural earthen road standard saving estimation of Indian Road
       Congress (IRC).
      Due to the reconstruction of the road transportation modal shift is occurring gradually.
      Value of Passenger Time Savings. It is found that saved productive working hour from the
       village road structure of Gaibandha shows that the three kilometer improved earthen road
       returns a benefit of about tk.136, 000 in a year. Rural road of Sirajganj sadar reveals that the
       benefit per year can be even tk. 100,000 per kilometer.

Tube-Well
      Time Savings and benefits. Tube-well user HHs derives all the benefits (access to safe
       drinking water, saving of times and use of water). It was reported that time savings was 1hr.
       /day and 10 days per year. In many cases, tube wells have used by multiple household users
       where they drives 70% of the total benefits.




                                                 55
                                                 Annex 7 – Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

This annex shares the results of field consultations conducted by the ICRR preparation team in October 2011. Thirteen villages in 3 different districts
(Jamalpur, Gaibandha and Barguna) were visited and community stakeholder workshops were held in each village.

   Type of                                     # of
   Villages        Names of Villages       participants                                                    Main Topics

Consolidation   Jamalpur District:         350            In general, communities visited had similar stories:
                Maidhaya Kotamoni,
                                                          A Village Development Committee was established;
                Sreepur Kumaria-2,
                Gobindahpur, Pakulla                      Initial infrastructure projects were designed and completed;
                Uttar, Ramchandra
                                                          Hard Core Poor community members received one time seed capital grants;
                Khali, Paschim Mesta
                Satiani, Uttar Pogaldiga                  Following the midterm review and change in institutional approach, Jibikayan Groups (JG) were established
                                                          with a mandatory 6 month savings period and then grouped together into SSC and started internal lending;
                Gaibandha District:
                Purba Gopalpur                            Gram Parishads (GPs) were formed, including all members of JGs, with a Gram Samity established as the
                                                          executive committee of the GP, with a representative from each JG;
                                                          Village Credit Organizations (VCOs) were formed to manage the shabolombi (livelihood) fund loans as well
                                                          as loans to youth community members; Social Audit Committees (SACs) were formed to ensure good
                                                          governance of funds; further, grants were given to the vulnerable;
                                                          The Cluster Facilitator (CF), the village-level SDF staff member, generally visited the community on a weekly
                                                          basis, on the same day each week.
                                                          With regards to loans and grants, most of the shabolombi loans were used for livestock and some also for
                                                          purchase of rickshaws. The youth loans were used to pay for training in computer operation, embroidery, and
                                                          medical practice. Many youth who benefited from these loans also benefited from linkages with employers
                                                          created by SDF. Further, many youth who took out loans are now also working as Community Professionals.
                                                          Most vulnerable community members who received grants used them to purchase livestock, often goats and
                                                          poultry. Often as a result of income gained from these investments, vulnerable community members were able
                                                          to start saving and become JG members and then take out loans for further investment.

                                                                                56
   Type of                                  # of
   Villages         Names of Villages   participants                                                     Main Topics
                                                       Infrastructures in villages visited were sound. The majority of interventions were building or rehabilitating
                                                       roads and culverts, building tube wells, and rehabilitating school fields. Community members shared how
                                                       these projects brought many benefits to the their villages including access to markets, schools, medical
                                                       services, lower transportation costs and safe drinking water leading to a decrease in morbidity and mortality.
                                                       In relation to procurement, it was generally done through direct purchasing. Villages would compare price
                                                       and quality at 3-4 different suppliers, and then choose the best. In general they were happy with the quality of
                                                       inputs they received.
                                                       With regards to village institutions, though complicated, the institutions seemed strong. There were requests
                                                       for further training in areas such as bookkeeping, but it is important to note that several villages said they felt
                                                       their institutions could be sustainable even if SDF didn‘t keep coming. Communities generally preferred the
                                                       post MTR model (with JGs and GPs) because the rich are no longer in the groups, and thus the poor and hard
                                                       core poor feel more empowered to speak up and take ownership. Additionally, many villages had Gram
                                                       Samity offices, which were also used as community centers.
                                                       Overall, the women met were clearly empowered. They were very vocal and outspoken and very proud of
                                                       showing the positive impacts of the project on their villages. Further, 18 JG members have been elected to
                                                       their Union Parishads, the local government body.

Consolidation +   Gaibandha District:       150        Findings in these villages were similar to those above, with the addition of flood-relevant feedback:
Flood             Purbo Pearapur,
                                                       Project funds came several years after the 2007 flood and were used more for disaster preparedness purposes
                  Paschim Khamar
                                                       than for disaster rehabilitation;
                  Pachgachi
                                                       An emergency fund was established to which the community contributes money and then in the case of a
                                                       disaster SDF contributes 10 times that amount;
                                                       A Village Disaster Management Committee (VDMC) was established and took charge of infrastructure
                                                       rehabilitation;
                                                       Though in most communities somebody was able to explain briefly about a disaster management plan, there
                                                       didn‘t seem to be a widespread understanding of the plan.




                                                                              57
   Type of                              # of
   Villages     Names of Villages   participants                                                      Main Topics

Cyclone       Barguna District:         240        Devastative effects of the cyclone caused casualties, salt intrusion, damage on infrastructure and crop and
                                                   livestock losses;
                                                   Beneficiary villages only received support from about 2 years after the cyclone. In the meantime, villagers had
                                                   to cope themselves or rely on humanitarian organizations;
                                                   During initial steps, it was difficult for SDF to convince communities as SDF had to ―compete‖ with
                                                   humanitarian organizations providing free goods, but not on an sustainable manner;
                                                   Same enthusiasm and positive attitudes of women that in the north
                                                   Difficult natural conditions (waterlogged areas, sanitization) leading to more difficult access to markets and
                                                   slower implementation pace, e.g. monsoon considerably limiting the construction period of CIWs.
                                                   same institutional approach that in the north (very consistent)
                                                   questions on the actual ability of community members to actually respond to a possible future hurricane;
                                                   contrary to the north, priority for infrastructure is put on tube wells in order to access good quality water

PKSF Flood    Gaibandha District:       10         Project loans were used to rebuild and raise houses after the flood, as well as for a tube wells and latrine;
              Tarapur
                                                   The NGO supervisor managed the money, in contrast to SDF villages, the community does not have direct
                                                   access to bank account;
                                                   The institutions were quite weak at village level, despite SKS involvement from before the flood intervention,
                                                   the women community members we met with were very shy and didn‘t really want to speak up – they were
                                                   less organized than in SDF villages.




                                                                          58
  Annex 8 – Summary of the Borrower’s Completion Report and Comments on
                               the Draft ICR

Genesis of SIPP

Since 2003, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), with support from IDA and through the
institutional channel of the Social Development Foundation (SDF), has been implementing
the Social Investment Program Project (SIPP). This is a community-driven development
(CDD) adaptive initiative which usher to exploring new ways of delivering critical
infrastructure services and social assistance to the rural poor, while at the same time
addressing institutional organization and capacity-building needs at village level. Overall, this
CDD approach entails focusing on community organization and principles of participation,
empowerment and downward accountability. The project was intended as a small-scale pilot,
to be implemented in two of the poorest districts of Bangladesh- Jamalpur and Gaibandha- to
test new CDD financing and institutional arrangements for improving access to local
infrastructure and basic services.
The Mid Term Review carried out by the SDF in 2006 recommended additional support to the
villages in Phase – I, II and III so as to consolidate the already made investments and
achievements. Based on Post MTR Strategy, an additional financing for Phase I – III villages
to the tune of US $ 8 million was sanctioned in 2007 for the period up to 2011. The objective
of additional investment in the Consolidated Phase villages is to maximize the benefits to the
hardcore poor and poor and enhance the sustainability of the already made investments. The
objective will be achieved by building on the ongoing activities in the villages through the
provision of additional assistance.
The floods in 2007 and the cyclone (Category IV) hit Bangladesh on Nov.15, 2007
particularly in the southwestern districts. Overall 30 districts and about 9 million people
(more than 2 million families) were affected. During 2008 the SIPP was expanded to respond
to the flood and cyclone through two more Additional Financing in January 2008 and July
2008. The second and third Additional Financing was aimed at addressing the restoration of
livelihoods and assets of the poorest and most vulnerable families in the affected districts. The
US$ 18 million program started in 2003 was expanded to US$ 100 million by mid 2008.

Project Coverage

The project areas cover 1447 villages in 7 districts of Jamalpur, Gaibandha, Sirajgonj,
Bagerhat, Barguna, Pirojpur and Patuakhali.

Achievements of SIPP

Key summary progress of SIPP-I as on June 30, 2011
Since 2003, the original SIPP started implementation and it had re-organized the institutional
structure in 2007 after recommendation of Mid-Term Evaluation of the project and the project
had transformed into Additional Financing-I. After end of flood 2007 and SIDR (Cyclone
2007), the Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank initiated Flood (Additional
Financing-II) and Cyclone Project (Additional Financing-III) from July 2008.




                                               59
The completion time of all additional financing projects was June 30, 2011. SDF is now
emerging more effective and efficient financing and institutional arrangements that improve
the access of the rural poor to livelihood opportunities by:
          Ensuring community driven initiative in planning, implementation, monitoring and
           evaluation;
          Organizing the hard core poor (HCP) and poor to build their institutions (e.g.
           Jibikayan Group, Gram Samity, Gram Parishad, etc) for sustainable livelihoods;
          Facilitating linkages with local government (UP) and private service providers
           (Sponsors ,NGO,MFI ) to leverage resources;
          Incorporating unemployed youth in the development process; and
          Institutionalizing effective learning through participatory monitoring.
The program will continue in SIPP I villages in addition to scaling up the model in the 1500
new villages. The remaining uncompleted works under 3-Additional Financings will be rolled
SIPP-II and will be completed by June 30, 2012. To that end, a comprehensive Annual
Implementation Plan was agreed with the World Bank.
Institutional development attitude and community integrity: SDF has successfully
managed to achieve over the 80% targeted of JG member‘s presence during GP meeting by
strengthening facilitation to the JG members. Turnout at GP meetings is often affected by
migration for work and the demands on day laborers, and it is hoped that as livelihood
opportunities are identified and developed, these two constraining factors will be reduced. So
far, out of 144710 project villages, only 1436 Gram Samity (99%) possess their durable office
at the village level, which represent the symbol of sustainability, venue of further bondage of
unity and power and forum of community development activities.
Improving livelihood opportunities and increasing income. SIPP is making good progress
on improving livelihood opportunities for the target poor and raising incomes. 258,113
members have been formed into Jibikayan Group, all of which 83% are engaged in savings.
So far about 110,000 JG members received Livelihood Fund (SF) and started IGAs mainly
on:
          55% of SF is invested in Livestock sectors;
          30% of SF is invested in small trades;
          9% of SF is in transport sector and
          Remaining 6% of SF is mobilized in agriculture and fisheries business.
Transparent and inclusive community organizations. About 85% of the villages are
accessing the Village Development Fund/Village Development and Risk Reduction Fund and
managing the fund according to the project rules. More than 95% of poor and hard core poor
women have been occupying in decision-making positions in different committees.
Target members (at least 50% women) are regularly attending Gram Parishad (GP) meetings.
Around, 100% of the Gram Samity (GS) has been formed following the COM Guidelines
where at least 50% women from hardcore poor represented the office bearer positions


10
     90 villages have been initiated in Bagerhat & Pirojpur district from Dec 2010.


                                                     60
About 83% of GSs (VDF/VDRRF/FRF recipient villages) have displayed and updated their
financial and other information on a monthly basis. This meets the transparency of fund
management as well as accountability.
One-time grant given to 17710 most vulnerable amounting Taka 45.60 million of which
14361(81%) vulnerable have already started IGAs, after receiving internal loan fund. The
project not yet started properly measuring the number of most vulnerable who have accessed
both a one-time grant and a shabalombi loan until end June 2011, so the project needs to
accelerate this activity to meet the project target in coming days.
Gainful employment by youth after receiving skill training. A total of 10,660 (46% of total)
youths have received skill development training and out of which 7941 (74% of trained
youths) employed.
In addition, 19,960 beneficiaries received Seed Capital @ Tk. 4000 per person to start
income generating activities in 500 villages. The combination of seed capital and Shabolombi
Fund loans equals to 129,864 beneficiaries, which is 50% of the project target.
It is estimated that about 51% target HHs increased their income by 20% from base
income Tk. 1450.0 to Tk. 1750 per month per-HH, after receiving internal lending,
Shabolombi Loan Fund (SLF) and Seed Money. It is expected that during impact study,
significant results could be measured through empirical study.
Sustainable management of assets created under the project. In total 1252 GSs that have
mobilized funds to cover the costs of maintaining infrastructure assets those were built by the
project or Local Govt. So far about 1734 community infrastructures including CISF
(CIW+CISF) were built by the community in SIPP Consolidation phase and another 358
subprojects under FRF/CISF have been implemented by the communities and yet to be
completed very soon. At the moment, the major accomplishments are around 2490 KM
earthen road, 3160 Culverts, 2940 Hand Tune-wells for safe water, 85 schools developed. It
has been estimated that about 5.75 million employment days generated through Community
Infrastructure Works in project villages (including original SIPP). As per Impact Evaluation
of CIWs in SIPP consolidation Phase, the following key impacts were concluded through
Impact Study (in 2006):
       Mobility & Connectivity: The earthen roads have enhanced mobility and connectivity
        of the villagers to reach educational institutes, health service center, hats-bazaars and
        other destinations. The frequency of people movement has increased from 5-7 times
        to 15-20 times per day.
       Access to Education: Improved transportation facilities due to roads and culverts have
        made the schools more attractive to the students.
       Safe Drinking Water: Establishment of Hand Tube-wells has enhanced the access to
        safe drinking water.
       Additional Agricultural Production, Income & Food Security: Total additional
        income from additional agricultural production about 125,630 mounds amounting
        TK. 628.15 as per market price.
       New houses and businesses have been established along the road side.
       Social Benefits: Positive effects are found in the project villages;




                                               61
(x) The project has fostered the development of 975 Community Professionals (CPs) after
enlistment. The process of having legal entity of the CP Center or Village Federations is
under way in SIPP Consolidation phase village. Currently, 14 CP groups have been signed
with DRMU & Flood areas to provide them facilitation support.
(xi) Improvement of Livelihoods: Following Qualitative Changes are observed in respect of
youth related issues: A total of 258,113 JG members have been organized in a platform(JG) to
understand their potentiality, possibilities, problems and opportunities 43% JG members
(HCP and Poor) have been employed after receiving Livelihood fund.
(xii) The overall performance of Community Financing has been improved in most of the
areas. The One Time Repayment performance of Shabolombi Loan Fund (SLF) and Internal
Lending are shown below:
Gaibandha        : SLF: 88% and Internal lending 89%;
Jamalpur         : SLF: 89% and Internal lending 88%
Rangpur          : SLF: 95% and Internal lending 97%
Sirajganj        : SLF: 93% and Internal lending 97%
Barisal (DRMU): SLF: 95% and Internal lending 96%
(xiii) Most of the Procurements have been completed and the uncompleted procurement
packages are being rolled over under Nuton Jibon.
(xiv) The summary of cumulative Fund disbursement performance is shown below:
Additional Financing-I (Cons. Phase): US$ 27.98 million (about 97 %.).
Additional Financing-II (Flood Project): US$ 22.94 million (about 89%).
Additional Financing-III (Cyclone Project): US$ 9.38 million (94%).
4.        Qualitative Changes Emerging in SIPP-I
Due to the interventions undertaken in SIPP-I, following qualitative change are observed to
be gradually cropping up in the project areas:
Institutional development attitude and community integrity. Majority of the Gram Samity
possess their durable office at the village, which provide forum for cementing the social unity,
vibrant community development activities and represent the symbol of institutional
sustainability and power.
Leadership development. HCP Poor women are now holding the office bearer positions of
the village institutions. They are gradually being accepted by the villagers to be involved in
various leadership roles such as mitigation of disputes, concluding agreement, management of
public and natural resources etc. Many of the poor community leaders are now elected in the
Union Parishad.
Women Empowerment. Due to the organized role in the village institution and activities,
women are now taking increasing role of decision making both in the household, community
and at various social levels.
Linkage with banking institution. Rural poor communities are now making financial
transaction with the bank and gradually becoming aware of the benefits of the banking
systems.



                                              62
Building Social Network and Linkages. Utilizing the already created functioning village
institutions, communities are exploring the potential benefits that can be derived from the
various public and private service providers such as Local Government Institutions, Govt.
Departments and various business communities.
Health and Sanitation development. Communities are becoming health conscious in terms
of consulting doctors, family planning, using child vaccination facility and pre and post natal
care of pregnant, and use of trained birth attendant.
Child Education. In the project villages, cent percent of target communities are found to be
sending their children to the school.
Social Violence, Dowry, Polygamy and Child Marriage. Social violence in terms of social
conflict, violence against women reported to have drastically reduced. Communities are
becoming aware regarding the awful effect of dowry and polygamy which is resulting in
gradually declined the trend of the event. Participatory decision making process is taken place
in family as well as village level. Incidence of child marriage observed to have declining as
communities have developed awareness this social vice.
Migration. As a result of utilization of VDF and subsequently creation of employment of the
poor and hard core poor temporary migration trend is found to be declining.
Increased beneficial use of infrastructures . Due to construction of earthen roads, mobility
and connectivity of the villagers have increased in terms of reaching services throughout the
year with reduced cost and time. Social value of the village has also significantly highlighted.
Moreover, social value of the village communities have substantially elevated due to the
improved accessibility.
Improvement of Youth Livelihoods. Unemployed youth in all project districts are facilitated
to form youth groups. They meet once a week, discuss common problems and ways to be
useful to the local community. This removes the frustration and loneliness of being
unemployed and encourage them to think together for possible solutions. Furthermore,
unemployed youths have been organized in a platform (JG) to understand their potentiality,
possibilities, problems and opportunities for wage and self employment;. They are also
holding positions in different committees like GS, VCO, SAC etc. which creates opportunities
to flourish their leadership quality, as well as guide the community, including in their capacity
of working as Community Professional.
Fund Disbursement. Overall disbursement progress for SIPP-I including additional
financing is US$ 60.3 million up to 30 June, 2011 (94%). The unspent balance has been
claimed and is pending World Bank approval. An amount of US$ 40.0 million has been
transferred from Additional Financing-III to other on-going program of Govt. of Bangladesh
though an appreciable progress has been made during the FY 2010-11 with US$ 9.01 million
disbursed as against cumulative disbursement (in 2-years) of US$ 1.82 million up to June
2010. The summary of cumulative Fund disbursement performance is shown below:

Pilot Initiatives

Public Utility: Rural Pipe Water Supply Project: Overall progress of six pilot schemes
completed about 90% (at least) of the all works and 2-pilot schemes have been started in trial
basis which need further addition for technically as well as financially viable under the
existing (agreed) modality.



                                               63
ICT Pilot: SDF has initiated 2 ICT Pilot program Community Information Centers (CICs) in
two districts with technical collaboration of Grameen phone. So far, 70% of community
members have directly or indirectly accessed ICT devices, where many of them are using
voice call facility. 21,300 people have accessed ICT based basic services for education, health
and information.
Health Pilot Project: The health care pilot was initiated in 2004 in two Unions to test comity
heath care system. The project successfully relished its objectives developing rural health care
by the community.
Monga Mitigation Initiative: This pilot project was under taken in the northern part of the
country where food scarcity prevails during off agricultural season. The project has
demonstrated ways of mitigating this problem through the intervention short duration
infrastructural woks, skill training, seed capital and emergency feeding. The lessons of the
project have been replicated by other in the country.

Lesson Learnt

The project has generated following lessons during it implementation:
Inclusive arrangement in forming local institutions is a prerequisite for well functioning
village institutions. Institutionalization is an iterative process which evolved through the
process of trial and error;
Community empowerment can handle and properly address governance issue in CDD project
management protect misappropriation of power. Practicing procedural norms (Transparency
and accountability) create congenial atmosphere amongst the members of the different tier of
the village organization which lead to a smooth implementation of the project activities;
Generating critical awareness among the beneficiary communities, developing required
capacity and mobilizing the villagers in taking up collective actions, including establishing
the practice of proper management systems seemed act as catalyst for the social institutions to
come up as real, consensual and trustworthy village development organizations.

Borrower’s rating of Performance

Overall the performance of the SIPP can be rated as ‗satisfactory‘ as the project has achieved
its development objectives of setting suitable mechanism and platform for poverty reduction
of the bypassed rural poor. The significant change in the household behaviors in respect of
institution building, handling fund, implementation of development activities, participation in
the socioeconomic activities, raising voice and chronologically increased involvement in the
livelihood improvement in the program is a pointer to the success of SIPP. The impact of the
project could have been much more significant had there been no bottlenecks in smooth
designing of a more comprehensive project and timely recruitment of the manpower.

Bank’s Performance

WB was very much proactive in providing necessary support as and when required. However,
bank‘s procurement guidelines to some extent were not user friendly in timely procurement of
services and goods.




                                              64
Annex 9 – Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners

The draft report was shared with concerned Development Partners (DFID, ADB, UNDP) on
December 14, 2011 and no comments have been received.




                                        65
Annex 10 – Government Comment on the Draft ICRR




                                     66
                   Annex 11 – List of Supporting Documents

Project Preparation/Appraisal Mission Documents
Project Appraisal Document, February 16, 2003
Project Information Document, March 18, 2003
Project Agreement, April 7, 2003
Mid-term Review Special Study of the Social Investment Program Project, 2006
Impact Study Report of Community Infrastructure Works
Additional Financing I (Consolidation) Project Paper, April 18, 2007
Additional Financing I (Consolidation) Credit Agreement, June 21, 2007
Additional Financing II (Flood) Project Paper, December 21, 2007
Additional Financing II (Flood) Project Agreement, February 7, 2008
Additional Financing II (Flood) Financing Agreement, February 7, 2008
Additional Financing III (Cyclone) Project Paper, June 4, 2008
Additional Financing III (Cyclone) Project Agreement, July 31, 2008
Additional Financing III (Cyclone) Financing Agreement, July 31, 2008
Project Appraisal Document for SIPP II May 28, 2010
Results Framework Status of SIPP-I (Consolidation Phase, Flood & Cyclone Projects)
Outcomes as per Results Framework as on June 30, 2011
Loan Performance Report of PKSF for the month of June 2011
Back-to-office and aide-memoires
Country Assistance Strategy, 2003 and 2011
Social Assistance Program – Partner Organization Assessment Report
Health Pilot Report
Rural Pipe Water Report
Process Monitoring Reports
Monga Impact Study Report
Project Implementation Plans
Memorandum of Understanding with Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation
Community Operation Manual
Quarterly Progress Reports
Annual Impact Plans
Borrower‘s Project Completion Report, November 2011
Livelihood and Credit: SIPP Impact and Evaluation Study, November 2011
Impact Assessment Study, November 2011




                                       67
