                         BANGLADESH

Social Investment Program Project




                         Report No. 106442
                                JUNE 16, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                               Report No.: 106442




           PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               Bangladesh

              SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM PROJECT
                        (CREDIT IDA-3740)


                               June 16, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                         ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka

2003                 US$1.00              BDT58.20
2004                 US$1.00              BDT58.65
2005                 US$1.00              BDT60.98
2006                 US$1.00              BDT66.58
2007                 US$1.00              BDT69.10
2008                 US$1.00              BDT68.55
2009                 US$1.00              BDT68.90
2010                 US$1.00              BDT68.97
2011                 US$1.00              BDT70.82

Abbreviations and Acronyms

BDPC       Bangladesh Disaster Preparedness Committee
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD        community-driven development
CNRS       Centre for Natural Resource Studies
FGD        focus group discussions
GP         Gram Parishads
GS         Gram Samitis
HCP        hard core poor
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
IEGSD      IEG Sustainable Development Unit
JG         Jibikayan Groups
KII        key informant interviews
M&E        monitoring and evaluation
MIS        management information system
MTR        mid-term review
O&M        operation and maintenance
PDO        project development objective
PKSF       Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation
PMC        project management committee
PPAR       Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP I     Poverty Reduction and Strategy Paper
PIP        participatory identification of poor
SIPP I     Social Investment Program Project I
SIPP II    Social Investment Program Project II
SIPP III   Social Investment Program Project III
TLLs       task team leaders
VCO        Village Credit Organization
VDCs       village development committees
                                                         iii


       Fiscal Year

       Government:               July 1 – June 30




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                            :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector & Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor- Dormond
Manager, IEG, Sustainable Development                               :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                        :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                                    v


Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Summary ............................................................................................................................ xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 6
4. Achievement of the Objectives ....................................................................................... 7
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 13
6. Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 14
7. Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 14
8. Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 15
9. Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 17
10. Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................................................................... 18
11. Lessons........................................................................................................................ 20
References ......................................................................................................................... 21
Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet.......................................................................................... 22
Appendix B. Methodology................................................................................................ 26
Appendix C. Gender Assessment ..................................................................................... 28
Appendix D. Village Grading Criteria ............................................................................. 32
Appendix E. List of persons Consulted. ........................................................................... 38
Appendix F. Jamalpur Map (IEG Site Visits)................................................................... 39
Appendix G. Borrower Comments ................................................................................... 40




This report was prepared by Abhinav Kumar Gupta, consultant, under the guidance of Lauren Kelly, Senior
Evaluation Officer in the Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group. Additional research and
field support was provided by Kathryn Steingraber, Sonia Sarder and Sama Khan. The PPAR mission was
conducted in March 2016. The report was peer reviewed by Elena Bardasi and panel reviewed by Judy
Twigg. Vibhuti Khanna provided administrative support.
                                                        vi




Boxes
Box 2.1. Natural Disasters in Bangladesh during the Project Period. ............................................. 5
Box 4.1. Water Contamination is a Critical Issue in Bangladesh .................................................. 11



Tables
Table 4.1.Table Village Institution Grades in Jamalpur District at the end of SIP I. ...................... 8
                                                             vii


Principal Ratings
                                    ICR*                            ICR Review*                         PPAR
 Outcome                    Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately                       Moderately
                                                                    Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
 Risk to                             Moderate                         Significant                      Significant
 Development
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                     Moderately                       Moderately
                                                                    Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory
 Borrower                           Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible World Bank department. The ICR Review is
an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
                                                              Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                   Sector Director                    Country Director
 Appraisal                 Wahida Haque                     Constance A. Bernard                Frederick T. Temple
 Completion                  Ousmane Seck                          Simeon Ehui                     Ellen Goldstein
                                                         viii


     Independent Evaluation Group Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through
                                        excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency (ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory
                                             ix


Preface
This is a project performance assessment of the Bangladesh Social Investment Program
Project that became effective on March 18, 2003, and that ended on the extended closing date
of December 15, 2012. Total estimated project costs, including three additional financings
(AFs), were US$101 million. The original credit of US$18.24 million was signed on April 7,
2003, while the AF1 of US$8 million was signed on June 21, 2007; the AF2 of US$25
million was signed on February 7, 2008; and AF3 of US$50 million was signed on July 31,
2008. Actual project costs were US$ 60.3 million because of the cancellation of US$40
million in the AF3. A second phase of the project was approved in 2010 and closed in
December 2015; however, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was not completed
by the time of the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission. A third phase of the project,
the Nuton Jibon Livelihood Improvement Project, was approved with financing of US$200
million in August, 2015. This assessment learns from the cumulative implementation
experience across all three phases, but only assesses and rates the first phase.

This report was prepared by Abhinav Kumar Gupta, consultant, under the guidance of
Lauren Kelly, senior evaluation officer in IEG, in collaboration with IEG consultants
Kathryn Steingraber, Sonia Sarder, and Sama Khan.

The team would like to recognize the strong support provided by the World Bank country
office in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and the excellent assistance from the Social Development
Foundation (SDF), both from the project management unit and from regional staff and
community facilitators in the state of Jamalpur.

This assessment was selected to provide inputs to the Bangladesh country study
commissioned as part of IEG’s forthcoming Rural Non-Farm Macro Evaluation. It also
includes an extended gender assessment, an appendix in this report and commissioned to
provide input into IEG’s learning product “The Impacts of Community-Driven Development
Interventions on Women’s Empowerment” (FY16, forthcoming).

Methodology. A desk review of documentation was conducted that included a review of the
project appraisal document (PAD), Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR),
legal and project files, the mid-term review (2006), and the end-line evaluation. A
stakeholder analysis was conducted to identify key informants, and a semi-structured
interview template was designed for individual interviews. A group interview module was
designed and used to collect and synthesize inputs from members of community associations
assisted by the project, including the Gram Samitis, Village Credit Organizations, and the
Jibikayan Groups and Youth Groups in the district of Jamalpur. To conduct the gender
analysis, IEG assessed the gender elements of the country assistance strategies, poverty
reduction strategies, and project documents, and within the project documents, the level of
gender integration, including the results framework and indicators. The desk-level
assessment was supplemented by including gender-related questions in the individual and
group interviews (see Appendixes B and C).
                                            x


Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft Project Performance Assessment
Report (PPAR) will be shared with relevant government officials and agencies for their
review and comment. Comments received will be included in Appendix G of the report.
                                                xi


Summary
This is a project performance assessment of the Bangladesh Social Investment Program
Project that became effective on March 18, 2003, and that ended on the extended closing date
of December 15, 2012. Total estimated project costs, including three AFs made available
because of the occurrence of two natural disasters, were US$101 million. The original credit
of US$18.24 million was signed on April 7, 2003, while the AF1 of US$8 million was signed
on June 21, 2007; the AF2 of US$25 million was signed on February 7, 2008; and AF3 of
US$50 million was signed on July 31, 2008. Actual project costs were US$ 60.3 million due
to the cancellation of US$ 40 million of the third AF.

The stated project objective was to develop effective and efficient financing and institutional
arrangements to improve access to local infrastructure and basic services through the
implementation of community-driven, small-scale infrastructure and social assistance. For
the purpose of this assessment, the objective is considered to be improved access to local
infrastructure and basic services, which were intended to be delivered through effective and
efficient financing mechanisms and by using a community-driven development approach.

The relevance of the project development objective (PDO) is rated modest. Although the
objective of improving access to local infrastructure and basic services is relevant, the
objective statement lacked specificity: it does not include a reference to the category of
beneficiary or to whom the services would be provided. This was corrected in the project’s
second phase, whose objective was to “improve the livelihoods of extreme poor
communities.” The multifaceted objective statement was also circuitously written. The
objective places too much prominence on the project means, which confuses the theory of
change. The objective overall is aligned with Bangladesh’s 2001-2005 and 2006-2009
country assistance strategies and Bangladesh’s 6th Five-Year Plan.

The relevance of the project’s design is rated modest. The project was situated in two of the
country’s poorest districts with limited access to infrastructure and basic services. While the
objectives lacked a specific reference to its intended beneficiaries, the district-level target did
allow the project to reach poor areas. This would have been a partially adequate targeting
mechanism had the community-driven development (CDD) model been designed and
implemented in an inclusive and accountable way. However, the relevance of project design
was undermined a lack of poverty focus and of adoption and adherence to clear rules of
engagement, including the use of social accountability tools. The relevance of design was
enhanced at mid-term (2006) when measures were taken to increase community
participation—including that of women and youth—and to direct services to the poor. The
original results framework was unaligned with the project objective. The PDO indicators
measured the project reach and the project means (a financing model), but not the project
objective.

Like other CDD programs that have been up and running when natural disasters have hit, the
Social Investment Program was flexible enough to be used as a tool for disaster crisis
response. With its extensive outreach, the program directed two additional rounds of
financing to remote areas that had been affected by flooding and a cyclone. However, the
model was too rigid. Although some activities financed under the crisis response were
                                               xii


directly related to recovery, many of the additional activities retained pre-disaster planning
features that lacked relevance from a crisis-response perspective. The high level of additional
finance made available for the response outstripped capacity and required coverage in areas
where the program, prior to the crises, did not have a presence.

The objective of improving access to local infrastructure and basic services was
substantially met. The project financed the construction of 1,734 community infrastructure
works, including 2,490 km of earthen roads, 3,160 culverts, and 2,940 hand tube wells.
Eighty-five 85 schools were repaired under the project. An impact assessment conducted at
end-line reported that the culverts and earthen roads financed by the project significantly
improved the mobility of persons living in the project area. The roads and culverts improved
connectivity to educational institutes, health service centers, and markets. The repair of
schools reportedly led to increases in the enrollment rate of students and increased the
activity of school governing bodies. Tube wells enhanced access to safe drinking water, with
reported savings accruing from a decrease in water-borne illness during the project period.

However, the impact assessment did not report on the quality of the services delivered,
including, importantly, the quality of the water in areas where arsenic is known to be a
contaminant, or the quality of the tube wells, with regard to their flood resilience (since at
least one of the original project districts was severely impacted by a flood after the wells’
construction). Sustainability of the works in general was found to be an issue, mainly for
large repairs, and women were found to be the main contributors (time and labor) towards
making minor repairs, based on IEG’s village-level interviews.

The efficiency of achieving the PDO is rated modest. Financial and economic rates of return
were estimated by both the PAD and ICR, but the types of activities covered by the two
estimates differed considerably. The PAD found an economic rate of return of 30.6 percent
for the estimated value of time that would be saved in accessing water, a benefit that would
have been enjoyed mostly by women. The ICR estimated an economic return of 24.7 percent
for income generating activities supported by access to finance. Efforts to mobilize group
savings resulted in groups, on average, saving US$5.00 over the project period. While much
more use was made of the seed capital provided by the revolving fund, the costs associated
with mobilizing group savings far outweighed the actual capital accumulation achieved. The
ICR also does not indicate whether the infrastructure built was flood resilient (unlikely in a
CDD project). Since some of the project areas were affected by floods—and hence received
AF—the ICR’s efficiency analysis should have discounted the loss (non-working tube wells,
flooded culverts, and inaccessible schools) in its calculation of the returns on the productive
activities. On the other hand, the ICR could have calculated the returns on health savings,
owing to the increased access to potable water, during the project period.

Development outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory, on account of the modest
relevance of the objective and of the design, substantial efficacy, and modest efficiency.

Overall risk to development outcome is rated significant. According to the end-line
assessment, only 20 percent of all community institutions supported by the project would be
sustainable without continuing implementing support. A second phase of the project may
have reinforced capacity, but this information was not able to be validated since the project
                                              xiii


had not been self-evaluated by the time of the IEG mission. Operations and maintenance
risks are also high: the PPAR mission found inadequate attention to and savings for the
maintenance of the works financed under the first phase. Concerns are mainly related to
major repairs that would require support from the Union Parishads. Parts of the project areas
are also prone to natural disaster risks. More information is needed on the quality of the
water delivered under the CDD model, especially in relation to the depths of wells in
disaster-prone areas and associated risks of contamination. Overall, there is a need to situate
the works provided through CDD projects in Bangladesh within a basin-wide water and
disaster management planning approach.

Lessons

In rural areas, where citizens lie outside the reach of the state, facilitating the formation
of strong institutions is fundamental to enabling the poor to access different sources of
social and economic prosperity. The Social Investment Program transformed its approach
to institution building at mid-term by ensuring that institutions were inclusive and responsive
to the felt needs of the poor. This approach was reflective of the more effective design of
rural livelihood programs under implementation elsewhere in the region at the time.

Gender inclusion, including female leadership, in village development programs is a
positive but insufficient tool to ensure high quality, sustained and effective leadership
over a multi-year program period. Evaluations of CDD programs have shown that for
leadership to be effective, it should be (1) rotated amongst members; and that (2) leaders
should have the requisite time needed and demonstrate a high level of commitment towards
nurturing the less well-off group members (with regard to savings, lending, and investment
behavior). Elite female members of society have the ability to extend access and information
to group members, but they also may lack the time and dedication needed to ensure effective
implementation of the project and group’s goals.

CDD projects offer a ready platform for outreach to disaster-affected populations, but
additional disaster-related activities require thorough assessment of an implementing
agency’s capacity to adapt, to manage quick influxes of AF, and to reach disaster-
affected populations outside of a project area. The Social Investment Program provided a
relevant and ready platform to respond to two successive natural disasters, but the SDF
required rapid retooling to be able to respond to the crises in a timely way. The needs of
crisis victims also differed significantly from those of other project beneficiaries. This
complexity, related to the need to manage these dual streams, requires strategic management
and a reconfiguration of service delivery mechanisms, project metrics, and monitoring and
reporting means.




                                                     Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                     Director, Financial, Private Sector, and
                                                     Sustainable Development Department
                                               1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Bangladesh, with a population of about 150 million and a land area of 147,570 square
kilometers, is among the most densely populated countries in the world. The economy of
Bangladesh has grown steadily during the last decade due to macroeconomic stability, trade
liberalization, an improved private sector investment climate, and financial sector reform. At
the time of project design, however, about 35 percent of the population remained poor.
Nationwide, headcount poverty fell from 48.9 percent in 2000 to 31.5 percent in 2010 and,
given slowing population growth, led to there being 17 million fewer poor people in 2010
compared to 2000. Furthermore, growth during 2000to 2010 was pro-poor over the decade
as a whole, that is, the increase in consumption per capita was proportionately higher for the
poor compared to the non-poor. Although rural poverty has fallen significantly from 52.3
percent in 2000 to 35.2 percent in 2010, it lags urban poverty reduction; the figure for rural
headcount poverty in 2010, which was 35.2 percent, was identical to what urban headcount
poverty had been in 2000.

1.2     In 2000, the Human Development Index for Bangladesh was 0.468 and rose to 0.547
in 2010. Similarly, between 2000 and 2010, life expectancy at birth increased by 4.8 years,
expected years of schooling by two years, and mean years of schooling by 0.8 years.
Furthermore, in 2011, the Multidimensional Poverty Index was at 0.237, with a headcount
ratio of 49.5 percent and intensity of deprivations, that is, education, health, and living
standards at 47.8 percent. It was also found that 18.8 percent of the poor were near poverty,
21.0 percent in severe poverty, and 43.3 percent still below the income poverty line of $1.25
per day. Living standards contributed 44.9 percent to overall poverty in deprivations,
followed by health and education with28.4 percent and 26.6 percent, respectively, in 2011.

1.3     In addition, participatory poverty assessments and Bangladesh’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy found that correlates of poverty are linked to: (i) land deprivation: higher poverty
rates associated with smaller landholdings and vice versa; (ii) a lagging demographic
transition: poorer households larger in size and with more children and fewer adults; (iii)
limited education: the poverty rate was higher for households headed by individuals with
limited education; (iv) nutritional inadequacy; (v) gender inequality; and (vi) a lack of
participation by the poor in the development process.

1.4      The World Bank-financed Social Investment Program (SIP) was designed to address
these inequities. It targeted two of the country’s poorest districts (Jamalpur and Gaibandha)
that were characterized by low levels of income and human development scores. The project
was anchored in the then recently-created SDF, established by the Government of
Bangladesh as a not-for-profit company in 2001, to promote community-driven initiatives
through decentralized planning and management of development programs. Recognizing the
challenges presented by weak local governance and their lack of reach, the project, especially
after mid-term, focused on the development of capable and accountable local rural
institutions as a platform for development planning and service delivery. It also used a CDD
approach that included social mobilization and participatory identification of the poor, taking
into account gender equity and the needs of youth.
                                              2


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1     Project Development Objective The PAD and the project credit agreement stated
the development objective of the project was “to develop effective and efficient financing
and institutional arrangements for improving access to local infrastructure and basic services
through the implementation of community-driven small scale infrastructure works and social
assistance programs.”

2.2      Project Components: There were four components throughout the project from
design to closure. The component costs at appraisal and actual costs are shown adjacent to
each component below. A fifth component was added to the second additional financing
credit, as explained in (e). Notwithstanding these additions and some substantive changes,
the project’s objective remained the same.

(a) Strengthening the SDF (appraisal: US$1.91 million; actual: US$7.63 million) The
SDF, which was established as an autonomous not-for-profit company under the Ministry of
Finance, was chosen to be the implementation agency for the project. This component was
comprised of four sub-components: (i) information and communication; (ii) capacity
building; (iii) monitoring, learning, and evaluation; and (iv) project management support
(including environmental assessment and tribal development). Technical assistance,
monitoring and evaluation studies, establishment and incremental staff expenses, and
operating costs were financed under this component.

(b) Institutional Development at the Community Level (appraisal: US$0.38 million;
actual: US$5.00 million) This component supported communities in raising awareness,
motivating and engaging the rural poor to participate in community-driven initiatives,
changing attitudes and behaviors among local stakeholders, development of institutions at the
village level, preparation of community action plans, and provision of an institutional
development fund that included revolving funds. The component had two sub-components:
(i) information and communication campaigns and (ii) formation and strengthening of
community institutions and financing of their action plans. The component also financed
local information dissemination and environmental assessment and screening.

(c) Implementation of Community Action Plans (appraisal: US$19.35 million; actual:
US$32.26 million) These plans were intended to prioritize community needs for small-scale
infrastructure, livelihood, disaster recovery and preparedness (in cyclone and flood-affected
areas financed by AF2 and 3), and social assistance based on informed choice and eligibility
criteria. The project was to finance: (i) up to 85 percent of expenditures of community
infrastructure sub-projects; (ii) services provided by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
to implement social assistance programs, including one-time seed capital and legal assistance
for the very poorest and vulnerable groups, and implementation of a tribal development plan;
and (iii) costs of services for appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, including community
financing sub-projects.

(d) Pilot Private Financing in Community Utilities (appraisal: US$0.90 million; actual:
US$0.40 million) The project financed technical assistance and a maximum of 70 percent of
approved costs of water and electricity sub-projects. These resources were channeled to
                                              3


leverage private financing of piped water supply to communities through matching grants.
The technical assistance helped the SDF to identify, develop, appraise, and supervise pilot
sub-projects in piped water supply and off-grid electricity.

 (e) Livelihood Restoration through Micro-Credit to Flood-Affected Communities
(original: US$0.90 million; actual: US$15 million) This assistance was implemented from
resources provided by AF credit II in December 2007 through the Palli Karma Sahayak
Foundation (PKSF), an independent NGO, to provide micro-credit to flood-affected
communities. It is treated as a stand-alone component by the ICR, separate from the four
original components (p. 27). Since this component was entirely financed by an AF credit,
there are no costs to show at appraisal.

2.3     The Social Investment Program Project (SIP) aimed at delivering critical social
assistance and local infrastructure services through process oriented community-driven
approach. It worked through empowering local poor communities by improving community
infrastructures and access to income generating activities. The self-governed effective
community institutions established to develop community-owned institutions as well as
promoting participatory governance.

2.4     Community Group Formation: The project organized village-level institutions by
mobilizing women and youth from vulnerable, marginalized, and poor households. At least
15 to 20 members were mobilized in groups called Jibikayan Groups (JGs). The JGs are
considered the foundation of the project. Within these groups, members would implement
their own savings and lending schemes, and through a project-financed revolving fund, they
would decide upon, finance, and implement income generating activities. Members would
meet in a general assembly, called as the Gram Parishads (GPs), which were supported by
representative Gram Samitis (GSs), or executive bodies.

2.5     Village credit organizations were formed to receive and manage a village-level
revolving fund—or the Shabolmi Fund. The fund made finance available for income
generating activities. The main income generating activities undertaken by the Jibikayan
Groups were poultry, goat rearing, cow rearing, cow fattening, petty trade, dairy, basket
making, and driving rickshaws and vans. In a few cases, the beneficiaries were also
undertaking value-added activities, such as puffed rice processing, chili primary processing,
and salt processing. The proceeds from the loan are expected to increasingly make finance
available for these types of activities for more group members.
                                               4


Relevance of Objective

2.6     The relevance of the project development Objective is rated as Modest. While the
objective of improving access to local infrastructure and basic services is relevant, the
objective statement lacks specificity: it does not include a reference to the category of
beneficiary (e.g. the poor). This was corrected in the second phase of the project, whose
objective is to “improve the livelihoods of extreme poor communities and to strengthen the
community institutions in selected districts.” The multifaceted objective statement was also
circuitously written. The PDO places too much prominence on the project’s means, which
confuses the theory of change.

2.7     The objective was and continues to be consistent with Bangladesh’s country
assistance strategies (CASs). Two of the strategic objectives of the 2001 CAS were helping
to build stronger institutions and governance across development programs and
implementing an integrated approach to rural development, including supporting growth in
agriculture and non-farm activities, making opportunities and assets available to the poor,
and improving rural infrastructure (p. 18). The 2006-2009 CAS notes that further gains in
human development will be difficult to achieve and sustain without service delivery systems
that are more accountable, more responsive, and able to reach the very poor. “With
government highly centralized, the poor find it difficult to hold public service providers
accountable for delivering services and responding to their needs. Recent efforts to enhance
local democracy and make more resources available to local governments provide an
opportunity to strengthen local governance and increase the voice of the poor in identifying,
designing, and implementing programs for rural infrastructure and social services” (p. 15).
The objective is also in line with the aim of the government’s 6th Five-Year Plan to bring
Bangladesh to middle-income-country status through a massive poverty reduction effort.

Relevance of Design

2.8     The relevance of the project’s design is rated as Modest. The project was situated in
Jamalpur and Gaibandha, two of the poorest districts in Bangladesh with limited access to
infrastructure and basic services. While the project did not have a specific reference to the
intended beneficiary group, geographic targeting enabled the project to reach poor areas. This
would have been a partially adequate targeting mechanism had the CDD model been
designed and implemented in an inclusive and accountable way. However, the relevance of
design was undermined by a lack of poverty focus and of adoption and adherence to clear
rules of engagement, including the use of social accountability tools. The relevance of design
was enhanced at mid-term when measures were taken to increase community participation—
including that of women and youth—and to direct services to more marginal parts of the
population.

2.9      The original results framework was unaligned with the project objective. It sought to
measure the core goal—the delivery of infrastructure and basic services—but not the means.
The results frame and measurement systems did not provide a coherent way of understanding
how the project added up to the sum of its parts. Were efficient and effective local financing
institutions (in the form of group savings and lending) needed to support the project’s service
delivery goal? How did the CDD model contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of the
                                                          5


service delivery model? Terms, like community, participation, and beneficiary satisfaction
were loosely applied.

2.10 Like other CDD programs that have been up and running when natural disasters have
hit, the SIP was flexible enough to be used as a tool for disaster crises response. With its
extensive outreach, the program was able to absorb and direct two additional rounds of
financing to remote poor areas that had been hit by flooding and subsequently a cyclone (see
Box 2.1). However, the model was too rigid. Although some of the activities financed under
the crisis response period were directly related to recovery, many of the additional activities
retained pre-disaster planning features that lacked relevance from a crisis response
perspective. Even though the aim of using the project vehicle to reach disaster-prone areas
was relevant, the rules and procedures associated with the CDD model, including hiring and
staffing, were not amended to allow greater flexibility to achieve a sufficiently timely
response. Rigidity around hiring, project staff placement, and the retention of CDD features
(social mobilization and training) resulted in a two-year delayed response between the
disaster and implementation of the first field activities in the disaster-hit areas. On the other
hand, the AF period was too short to ensure effective implementation of the longer CDD
goals sought in the expanded project areas.

 Box 2.1. Natural Disasters in Bangladesh during the Project Period.
 Overview. Several major natural disasters occurred during the project period including in 2004, 2007, and
 2009. The 2007 flood-affected areas include SIP project areas, including the districts of Jamalpur and
 Gaibandha. Since 2007, natural disasters are estimated to have caused damages in the amount of Tk189.4
 billion, or 4.7 percent of Bangladesh’s gross domestic product.
 In 2004, the country’s northeast suffered from flash floods that destroyed a substantial portion of the boro
 rice crop. The main wave of monsoon flooding started in early July, eventually affecting 36 million people
 (almost a quarter of the total population) living in the northwestern, northeastern, and central districts. The
 inundation caused nearly 800 deaths, affected 2 million acres of agricultural land, and destroyed
 infrastructure and public and private assets. While several areas were still experiencing an emergency
 situation in September, a localized monsoon depression swept over Bangladesh, bringing three times the
 normal rainfall, and resulting in flooding in Dhaka and the southwest and central areas of the country.
 Preliminary estimates show that total assets and output losses due to the floods are approximately US$2.3
 billion, including both the public and private sectors. The 2007 floods directly affected over 13 million
 people in 46 districts, caused over 1,000 deaths, affected over 2 million acres of agricultural land, and
 damaged infrastructure, social and educational facilities, and private assets, including housing, crops,
 livestock, and fisheries. (World Bank 2008; World Bank 2005). Bangladesh was also hit by two cyclones
 between 2007 and 2009. Cyclone Sidr hit Bangladesh in November 2007, prior to the harvest season. It
 caused thousands of deaths and extensive economic losses, particularly in the southwestern districts (World
 Bank 2011). As a consequence of the 2007 cyclone, Sidr, SIP was expanded to the southwestern districts of
 Bagerhat, Barguna, Barisal, Patuakhali, and Pirojpur.
 Source: Shamsuddoha, Md. et al.; “Insights from Cyclone-affected Communities in Coastal Bangladesh”, Center for
 Participatory Research and Development (CRPD), 2013; United Nations, “United Nations Rapid Initial Assessment
 Report: Cyclone Sidr,” United Nations, 2007; World Bank, “Project Paper On A Proposed Additional Financing Credit
 in the Amount of SDR 30.7 Million (US$50.0 Million Equivalent) to the People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the Social
 Investment Program, Project Report No.: 43295-Bd”, World Bank, 2008; World Bank, “International Development
 Association Project Paper for an Emergency 2007 Flood Restoration and Recovery Assistance Program, Report No.
 41772-Bd”, World Bank, 2007.
                                                6




3. Implementation
Project Costs

3.1     Total estimated project costs, including three AFs, were US$101 million. The original
credit of US$18.24 million was signed on April 7, 2003, while AF1 of US$8 million was
signed on June 21, 2007; AF2 of US$25 million was signed on February 7, 2008; and AF3 of
US$50 million was signed on July 31, 2008. Actual project costs were US$ 60.3 million
because of the cancellation of US$40 million in AF3.

3.2     The project was designed to be implemented in approximately 1,400 villages,
representing 54 percent of all villages in the two target districts of Jamalpur and Gaibandha.
The villages were selected on their relative levels of access to basic infrastructure and social
assistance services, as well as the relative populations of persons living below the poverty
line, and the presence of disadvantaged groups. Within these villages, 250,000 households
were to benefit from infrastructure sub-projects, and an additional 300,000 poor and socially
excluded were to benefit from the social assistance program. Beginning in 2007, the project
undertook three successive rounds of AF with the aim of consolidating project activities.

3.3     The first AF was implemented after the mid-term review, which was conducted in
2006. The review identified some mistargeting, including exclusion of the poorest of the
poor. It also identified a lack of ownership of some of the sub-projects, signalling a concern
that the CDD process may not have been well implemented, and that as a result, both efficacy
and sustainability were at risk. The project performed a mid-course correction by adopting a
new system of beneficiary identification, namely through a participatory identification of
poor (PIP) approach, that had been used elsewhere in the region. The course correction also
remodelled the development of the village institutions. The new approach placed a greater
emphasis on inclusion and accountability. The GP, which is the general assembly of the
project, serves as an inclusive and accountable village institution and is organized into
various entities such as the GS, JGs, and savings groups (SSCs), such as the village credit
organizations (VCOs).

3.4      While the first AF was intended to support a consolidation of the project activities in
the two target districts, the second and third financing rounds were made available in
response to an unfortunate series of natural disasters. (See Box 2.1). The existence of the
program, its implementing arrangements and outreach provided for a ready platform for
disaster assistance, particularly to poor remote areas. The second AF was used to respond to
a flood; AF was made available to assist some 500,000 flood victims, in 200 villages, mainly
in the project areas, as well as in the neighbouring district of Sirajganj. The third AF was
approved to respond to a cyclone whereby project activities were expanded to four affected
districts in the south: Bagerhat, Barguna, Pirojpur and Patukhali The expansion provided
livelihood assistance to about 120,000 families in 500 villages in 14 of the most-affected
areas (upazillas). Just under one million people in these disaster-struck areas benefitted from
infrastructure rehabilitation.
                                               7


3.5     The original project closing date was changed from June 2007 to 30 June 2011, thus
doubling its implementation period. This slower than expected implementation has three
main causes: (i) the nature of project activities (confidence building, institution development
and long term capacities building) which required more time than anticipated at appraisal.
Also, since communities drove their own development, some delays were attributable to a
slower pace set by the communities themselves; (ii) the disruptions caused by the flood and
cyclones; (iii) the positions of SDF management lying vacant during some key periods for
example, no managing director for 5.5 months, no general manager for programs for 1.5
years, and so on.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1      The objective of the project, was to develop effective and efficient financing and
institutional arrangements for improving access to local infrastructure and basic services
through the implementation of community-driven, small-scale infrastructure works and social
institutional development. Its achievement was rated Substantial overall. This PPAR is
focused on the evaluation of the main aim of this objective, to improve access to local
infrastructure and basic services. It considers the establishment of financing and
institutional arrangements to be the means by which this aim was meant to be achieved, and
the CDD model as the chosen approach.

4.2     The Results Framework. There were two PDO indicators used by the project. Neither
were sufficient to measure the objective of improving access to infrastructure and services,
with regard to accessibility, quality, and use of the services delivered. The first PDO
indicator was “the number of hard- core poor and poor benefitting from the project.” With a
baseline of zero, the project sought a target of 3 million and achieved the participation of 2.5
million by project close. This section begins by discussing issues associated with targeting
(see para 4.3). The second PDO indicator was that “a direct financing model for hard-core
poor and the poor is tested.” As stated previously, the development of a financing model was
a means to achieve the project’s service delivery objective, not the development objective.
Other intermediate indicators measure the project’s outputs, such as the number of small-
scale infrastructure built, the number of youth that were employed, and the number of
employment days generated for the flood-affected communities. A third type of indicator
measured participation in the program, including female participation. Project targeting and
results are discussed, in turn, below:
                                                    8


Targeting: Evidence on distributional impacts

4.3      The objective statement lacked a specific reference to a target group. The project
sought to improve access to infrastructure and services, but it did not stipulate for whom the
services would be made available. Partly as a result, the first half of the project period was
challenged by a significant level of capture at the village level. While village development
committees and project management committees were established by integrating a mix of
different income categories (rich, middle class, poor, and hard-core poor), decision making
and resource allocation were dominated by the first two categories of group participants. The
original project design and early field implementation also did not focus on gender-specific
needs. Early on, for example, while women were engaged as paid labor in road construction
and maintenance, they did not participate in sub-project placement or design. These design
flaws were corrected at the mid-term review, when the rules of the game for the
establishment and governance of the local rural institutions were changed, so that these
institutions were comprised of only the poor and very poor, and of women and youth.

Results

4.4     Overall, data obtained on the performance of the participating villages in one of the
two districts visited by IEG provides an overview of the relative results that were obtained by
the villages in that district, which IEG understands can be extrapolated for the project as a
whole. As shown in Table 4.1, roughly half of the village-level institutions in the Jamalpur
District received A and B grades, or were well functioning at the end of the first phase.

Table 4.1.Table Village Institution Grades in Jamalpur District at the end of SIP I.
        Grade                     No. of villages                        % of villages
         A                              75                                   17
          B                            143                                    32
          C                             79                                    18
          D                            144                                    33
Source: SDF

4.5      In the Jamalpur District, one of two districts targeted by the project and visited by
IEG, poor performance was associated with several factors that resonated also with poor-
performing villages in the other district. The rural institutions were originally not constituted
and “owned” by the very beneficiaries they intended to serve. This changed at mid-term, in
line with best practice projects in the region that have established and strengthened
institutions of the rural poor by including the poor both as members and as leaders. By
building the social capital of the poor, these institutions better enable the poor to acquire the
voice and knowledge necessary to connect to economic and social opportunities. At design,
however, the groups were constituted in a way that sought formation for short-term gain
around access to finance for needed infrastructure. Once the money dried up, there was less
interest in using the rural institutions for anything more, especially for servicing the poor.

4.6    In addition, both financial and organizational training was initially provided to a
small set of individuals who assumed leadership functions. IEG interviews conducted at the
                                                9


village level corroborate the reported project-level findings that this practice, coupled with a
lack of leadership rotation (including training), created group-wide dependency on a single
individual, which put both the rural institution and the project at risk. Another reason for
poor performance is associated with the incidence of natural disasters. Higher-performing
villages sometimes dropped to a lower grade because of the capacity constraints imposed by
floods or other exogenous shocks.

Rural Savings and Lending Schemes

4.7     The project undertook an intensive-capacity building exercise to raise awareness
about savings and lending. The project provided village-level institutions with facilitation
support to mobilize savings and to teach group lending skills. The initial support stage lasted
between three months to a year, after which time the project provided seed capital to finance
a larger Revolving Fund. The revolving fund was intended to make available credit to
finance income-generating and livelihood activities. The delay between the initial savings
schemes and the introduction of the revolving funds was intended to support the development
of financial management skills, prior to providing larger amounts of financing through the
revolving fund.

4.8     The project helped 258,113 persons involved in the Jibikayan Groups mobilize
US$1.23 million in savings, equivalent to an average of US$5.00 per member. The lower
than expected mobilization of savings was due mainly to behaviour. Many groups emptied
their savings funds upon receiving access to the larger Revolving Fund for infrastructure
development and service provision. Delays in implementation also undermined the expected
savings base that had been achieved during the life of the project.

4.9      Of the 258,113 persons participating in the Jibikayan Groups, roughly half accessed
loans from either their village Savings Funds or the Revolving Funds. The loans were used
for income-generating activities, both farm and non-farm. The main income-generating
activities accessed by the project beneficiaries were poultry, goat rearing, cow rearing, cow
fattening, petty trade, dairy, basket making, and rickshaws and vans. In a few cases, project
beneficiaries undertook value-added activities such as puffed rice processing, chili primary
processing, and salt processing.

4.10 While repayment rates were good—93 percent and 92 percent for loans taken from
the savings fund and revolving funds respectively (the internationally accepted standard is 95
percent) - and while most loan takers were women, a lesson learned over the multiple phases
of the project is that the model discouraged participation of the very poor. As observed in
group interviews conducted by IEG, the very poor are reluctant to take loans because of a
repayment schedule referred to as “on-time.” Loan takers are required to start repaying the
loan, in installments, as early as the second week after the loan is taken. Interviews with
members of rural savings groups pointed to the time that it takes to raise poultry, rear cattle,
or fatten cows. Poor members felt that a three- to six-month grace period should be allowed
for members engaged in productive activities, to allow for a maturation of those activities
and for the generation of some early benefits.
                                                10


4.11 Nevertheless, the project end-line assessment found that the availability of loan
finance has not kept up with demand, with 88 percent of groups surveyed reporting that the
members had to wait to receive a loan or that they were not able to get a higher loan amount
to finance a livelihood activity, since the revolving fund growth was not able to match the
inflation rate. Growth was also stymied by the use of a high institution maintenance fee: half
of the 10 percent lending rate was used to finance the activities of village institutions. As part
of the project’s subsequent phases, the Social Development Fund has recommended raising
the lending rate, from 10 to 12 percent, to help continue to grow the funds to better meet
beneficiary demands.

4.12 The external assessment found, and IEG focus groups helped to verify, that proximity
to urban market centers was a determining factor in the choice of income-generating activity.
Beneficiaries residing near urban centers tended to opt for non–traditional or more
risky/high-reward livelihood opportunities, including vegetable production, tailoring,
handicrafts, and vehicle driving. Rural remote beneficiaries, on the other hand, tended to
invest in livestock rearing and poultry and cow fattening, and these activities constituted the
majority of activities pursued by project beneficiaries.

4.13 An employment scheme targeting 7,893 unemployed youth was piloted towards the
end of the project period. As part of this scheme, skill development loans were provided to
youth to pay for skill-based trainings. Most of these trainings were designed to support
employment in the non-farm sector and to obtain employment opportunities in urban areas.
Trainings included computer operation, tailoring, mechanic skills, sewing, stitching, driving,
and welding. In a few cases, youth participants accessed credit through the groups’ savings or
revolving funds to fund training directly utilized to establish a rural enterprise.

Infrastructure and Services

4.14 Against a target of 1800 small works, the project financed the construction of 1734
community infrastructure works, including 1376 works under the original project and 358
under the flood and cyclone AFs. Four major categories of infrastructure works were
financed: 2,490 km of earthen roads, 3160 culverts, and 2,940 hand tube wells were built,
and 85 schools were repaired. All villages, by project close, were reported to have
established an operation and maintenance (O&M) plan and 77 percent of them (against the
target of 80 percent) had mobilized O&M funds.

4.15 An impact assessment conducted at end-line reported that the culverts and earthen
roads financed by the project significantly improved the mobility of persons living in the
project area. The roads and culverts improved connectivity to educational institutions, health
service centres, and markets. The repair of schools led to increases in the enrolment rate of
students and increased the activity of school governing bodies.

4.16 Tube wells that were constructed were reported to enhanced access to safe drinking
water, with reported savings realized from a decrease in water-borne illness. While this
would have been the case for most of the project area, tube wells built in areas prone to and
eventually affected by cyclones and flooding would have been susceptible to contamination.
However, the project did not provide data on the depth of the wells that were installed, so it is
                                                         11


unclear whether the wells affected by flooding would have been able to provide access to
safe drinking water after the occurrence of two natural disasters during the project period
(See Box 4.1).

 Box 4.1. Water Contamination is a Critical Issue in Bangladesh
 In Bangladesh, the majority of irrigation and drinking water is supplied from underground sources
 due to the limitation of surface water. At the time of project appraisal, the population exposed to
 arsenic poisoning through drinking water was more than 25 million. Out of 64 districts of the
 country, 47 to 61 districts had arsenic content above the WHO-recommended maximum
 permissible limit of 0.05 mg/L. Thousands of people continue to suffer from arsenic-related
 diseases. By 2006, new research suggested that some 85 million people were at risk from arsenic in
 drinking water and in food crops.
 A national drinking water quality survey conducted in 2009 furnished data that were used to make
 an updated estimate of chronic arsenic exposure in Bangladesh. About 20 million and 45 million
 people were found to be exposed to concentrations above the national standard of 50 µg/L and the
 World Health Organization’s guideline value of 10 µg/L, respectively. Exposure varies widely in
 the 64 districts; among adults, arsenic-related deaths account for 0 percent to 15 percent of all
 deaths. Exposure to arsenic through drinking water sourced from groundwater is a global public
 health problem that is particularly devastating in Bangladesh.
 In rural areas, 97 percent of the population relies on tube wells—installed since the 1970s—to
 reduce disease from ingestion of pathogen-laden surface waters. Tube wells, affordably priced at
 about US$ 100, draw arsenic-containing groundwater from a shallow depth of 10 to 70 meters.
 Groundwater from depths greater than 150 m usually contains less arsenic and can be a sustainable
 drinking water source. However, the project data obtained by the IEG assessment do not allow for
 a validation of this appropriate depth.
 Source: Sources: International Water Resources Association Water International, Volume 26, Number 3, Pages 370–379,
 September 2001; Agriculture Ecosystems & Environment · April 2006; M.F. Hossain; American International
 University-Bangladesh. Arsenic in tube well water in Bangladesh: health and economic impacts and implications for
 arsenic mitigation. WHO; Sara V Flanagan et al. 2012.


Gender-Related Findings
4.17 Gender was not a consideration in project design. Prior to mid-term, the reference to
women’s participation is included in the reference to vulnerable groups (for example, poor
and socially excluded female-headed household, disabled, tribal people, street children, and
so on). These groups were provided assistance through a Social Assistance Program (SAP)
aimed at increasing the capacity of excluded groups to participate in mainstream
development activities through: (a) advocacy programs; (b) occupation skills training; (c)
support for pregnant women and risk-pooling pilot initiatives; (d) legal aid support; and (e)
grants for the graduated trainees and worst affected natural hazard victims. The approach,
prior to mid-term was found by the ICR and the PPAR to be insufficient. SAP beneficiaries
received a small, one time grant and these grants were too small to have made a meaningful
impact on livelihoods or welfare. Neither women nor the vulnerable especially benefited
from the SAP activities.

4.18 Prior to the mid-term, there was a heavy focus on infrastructure due to the nature of
the group composition. VDCs and project management committees had been captured by
                                              12


non-poor members, and were mainly male. During this period, the voices of the poor were
suppressed. Criteria set at design, including targeted assistance to female headed poor
households had not been respected during the early part of the project period in despite of the
fact that there were specific targets set (30 percent of the VDCs; 30 percent of the CG
members; and at least 25 percent of the project management committees were to have been
women, the poor and vulnerable.)

4.19 The project only superficially included women in the infrastructure and works portion
of the project. According to the PAD, “the targeting for community infrastructure works
would be broad-based but include specific conditions for inclusion of the poor and women in
the eligibility criteria for financing of sub-projects.” There was a particular focus on the
benefits that would accrue to women from the increase in quantity and quality of water:
‘about 250,000 people (of whom at least 30 percent will be poor and women) will benefit
through access to safe water, sanitation facilities, and other essential social, transport and
trade infrastructure services through the implementation of about 1,800 community
infrastructure sub-projects’. The PAD theorizes that ‘investment in safe drinking water and
sanitation, by improving the health of rural populations as well as reducing time spent,
especially by women, in transporting water, will contribute to poverty alleviation and
increase the productive capacity of rural people, particularly women. Benefits of improved
water supply both in terms of quantity and quality are expected to have a positive effect on
health outcomes, and that these health benefits which in turn would lead to labor productivity
and income gains via a variety of direct and indirect pathways, which would also benefit
women. Since none of the results data is disaggregated, it is impossible to report whether
these results were achieved, including for women.

4.20 The original community groups were also not provided with basic gender awareness
training, knowledge and understanding on prevention of violence against women. The staff
of SDF and other executing agents are also lacking clear understanding of gender awareness
building and women empowerment focused elements. Original support through which these
serves would have been accessed (e.g. legal aid support) did not materialize as envisioned.
Based on the original project components, prior to the additional financings, the project
focused more on the hardware. This was a missed opportunity to raise awareness around such
issues as the dowry, early marriage, women’s health, pregnancy, and hygiene, and as stated
above, violence against women.

4.21 Gender integration was fully achieved after the mid-term review and the restructuring
of the project. This is due mainly to the support of a key member of the Bank’s Rural
Livelihoods teams, which put poverty and gender squarely at the center of its rural
development programs. The mid-term review recommended and the project implemented a
full restructuring of the project’s village organizational structures. As such, after the mid-
term review, women and girls constituted 95 percent of the membership of the 1407 village
level institutions, i.e. Gram Samiti, Gram Parishad and the 20,414 village level Jibikayan
Groups. Seventy-seven percent of the total 1224 no. of Gram Samitis are active and led by
women. Interestingly, women appear to be the de facto participants of this project since many
of the men residing in these areas were too busy or too uninterested in joining once the
project was geared to being truly pro-poor. Many of the men in the project areas are day
laborers and farmers.
                                              13


4.22 All the groups received financial skill trainings, including saving and credit
management training. The trainings were mostly limited to the leader and cashier of each
institutions (Gram Samiti, Jibikayan Groups, VCOs, Social Audit Committees). While many
of the recipients of the trainings were women, one of the downfalls of this design feature was
that the women did not rotate. So while some women were trained, these skills were not
adequately imparted to most female members of the group (non-leaders).

4.23 This finding is salient: it raises a more complex questions as to which women are
empowered, whether empowerment is limited to a few of the many women who behave as
general participants in CDD project, versus their leadership. It begs for more research
across CDD programs on how women join, their need to be otherwise socially connected or
financially endowed to assume leadership roles, and ultimately the distribution of benefits
cross these different tiers of women groups.

Quality, Operations and Maintenance

4.24 As part of the group interviews led by IEG in the District of Jamalpur, IEG sought to
understand more about the sustainability of the project-financed infrastructure. Four years
after project close, IEG asked members of active village institutions to speak to the current
state of the infrastructure financed by the project. In the villages visited, a common theme
that emerged was that villagers were able to conduct minor repairs regularly, especially on
roads and culverts, but they were not able to finance major repairs. Minor repairs continue to
be overseen by a maintenance committee organized by the project and supported by members
of project-financed village institutions, mainly women. IEG also found that none of the
village institutions visited maintained a formal Operation and Management Plan, and no
O&M funds had been mobilized or set aside for future repairs. This raises questions as to the
veracity of the reporting on Operations and Maintenance in the project close-out reports.

4.25 Meanwhile, IEG found that the local institutions created by the project were unable to
leverage their needs (for example, for major infrastructure repairs) vis a vis the Union
Councils (or Union Parishads), the smallest rural administrative and local government units
in Bangladesh, formed under the Local Government (Union Parishads) Act of 2009.

5. Efficiency
5.1      The efficiency of achieving the PDO is rated as Modest. Financial and economic
rates of return were estimated by both the PAD and ICR, but the types of activities covered
by the two estimates differed considerably. The PAD estimated an economic rate of return of
30.6 percent for the estimated value of time that would be saved in accessing water, a benefit
that would have been enjoyed mostly by women. The ICR estimated an economic return of
24.7 percent for income-generating activities supported by access to finance. Efforts to
mobilize group savings resulted in groups, on average, saving US$5.00 over the project
period. While more use was made of the seed capital provided by the Revolving Fund than
the savings, the costs associated with mobilizing group savings far outweighed the actual
capital accumulation achieved. The ICR also does not indicate whether the infrastructure
built was flood resilient (unlikely in a CDD project). Since some of the project areas were
affected by natural disasters, and hence received AF, the ICR’s efficiency analysis should
                                             14


have discounted these loss (non-working tube wells, flooded culverts, inaccessible schools)
from the calculation of the returns on the productive activities. The ICR could have also
calculated the returns on health savings, owing to the increased access to potable water,
during the project period.

6. Outcome
6.1     The rating of Development Outcome is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The relevance
of the objective is rated Substantial, warranted by the relevance of the overall aim, but
undermined by its lack of specificity with regard to the ultimate beneficiary. The relevance
of design is rated Modest since the CDD approach was not grounded in best practice. While
this was corrected at mid-term, just over half of the funds amounting to 56 percent of the
original credit (excluding AFs) had been disbursed by that time.

6.2     Women were not initially integrated in project design or decision-making about the
placement and use of infrastructure, but were the main beneficiaries of the remodeled design.
While women received benefits through the group savings and lending schemes, and while
these benefits are likely to accrue over time, they also bear the brunt of the operations and
maintenance of the works conceived and built under the project. Men were less interested in
attending group meetings after the project was reformed, since most of the seed money to
fund contracts for works had been used up. Efficacy is rated Substantial, since the project
was effective in improving access to infrastructure and basic services. However, the project
should have measured and reported on the quality of the works, including whether the tube
wells constructed were flood resilient and whether the water that was provided was
uncontaminated. Efficiency is rated Modest since the project utilized two different methods
to estimate returns, the methods were not comprehensive of the program as a whole, and
several inefficiencies were unearthed during the assessment, including the very low rate of
capital accumulation compared to facilitation costs.

7. Risk to Development Outcome
7.1    Overall risk to development outcome is rated as Significant.

7.2     Sustainability of Village Institutions. According to the end-line assessment, only 20
percent of all community institutions supported by the project are sustainable without
continuing Foundation support. The second Social Investment Project Program was intended,
among other things, to help these institutions become self-sustainable. Since project closed,
steps have been taken to set up second tier level institutions and two district societies have
been established and registered in Gaibandha and Jamalpur districts. SDF is currently
working with the district societies to strengthen their institutional functioning including
monitoring and evaluation and financial management, so that they can better provide support
to the village organization beneath them.

7.3     Sustainability of Infrastructure. There is a risk that infrastructure built under the
project will not be adequately operated and maintained. Contrary to the ICR’s statement that
83% of the villages under the consolidation phase (AF Credit I) developed operations and
                                                   15


maintenance plans for community infrastructure works and 79% implemented these plans as
scheduled, the PPAR mission was unable to find any groups either designing or
implementing these plans. Although the groups - mainly women - were regularly
implementing minor repairs, they were facing challenges to finance major repairs that were
dependent on the Union Parishad, which had limited resources to offer. (See paragraph 4.21
for more information.)

7.4      Exogenous Shocks. The project areas are also prone to risks due to natural disasters.
While the subsequent phases of the Social Investment Program have increased resilience,
especially through savings and attention to infrastructure repair, there is a need for more
basin- and region-wide planning and stronger linkages to national disaster management
initiatives. Data obtained by IEG from the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE)
reveals that, as of 2015, 7,500 water points (tube wells) had been damaged in the North-West
districts due to flooding.

7.5     The International Non-Governmental Organization Environmental and Sanitation
Conditions Database1 shows that sanitation conditions have deteriorated in all flood-affected
areas in the North-West of Bangladesh. In absolute numbers, 4,500 water points were non-
functional after the recent flood. While the Government has assisted affected communities by
providing water purification tablets, bleaching powder and fitkari to protect them from water-
borne diseases, surface water still needs to be treated in the affected areas and the initiative
needs to be taken to raise tube well platforms as a risk reduction initiative for the upcoming
years.

8. Bank Performance
Quality at Entry.

8.1      The quality at entry is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project is recognized
for its contribution to testing new approaches to building rural service delivery platforms that
address systemic institutional weakness at the time of project design. However, there were
significant shortcomings in the design of the original project, and subsequent AF phases
underestimated the capacity of the implementing agency to manage the consolidation and
expansion of the CDD program while diverting a portion of its staff and resources to crisis
response. In the course of six months, owing to the pressures put on the project by the
successive natural disasters and the decision to respond, the Bank raised the level of project
financing from US$26 million to US$101million. Disbursement averaged US$ 3.5 million
annually between project effectiveness in 2003 and the end of 2007. While the additional
finance came at the behest of Government, the size of the AF packages did not adequately
involve consultations with the SIP management and governance teams.



1
 Source: secondary data analysis, monsoon flooding 2015, Inter-cluster coordination and INGO-ESC,
November 2015.
                                              16


8.2     Quality at entry during the AF phases also demonstrated shortcomings. Both the Palli
Karma Sahayak Foundation and the Bangladesh Disaster Preparedness Centre (BDPC)
selected to implement the disaster response phase lacked the requisite experience.
Weaknesses in quality at entry during the AF phases are associated with the cancellation of
US$40 million during the third AF phase.

Supervision.

8.3     The quality of supervision is rated as Satisfactory. Two of the four Task Team
Leaders were located in Dhaka, which was deemed an advantage in addressing project
implementation issues. According to the Project Team, supervision missions were undertaken
every six months. These missions addressed substantive issues and provided technical
assistance and guidance to the project implementation team. Task Team Leaders (TTLs) and
the SDF were responsive to issues raised by missions.

8.4    Based on the findings of the mid-term review, Bank supervision developed several
innovative, community-friendly models and tools that helped the project to reach the poor,
women, and youth. These innovations, supported by the Bank after mid-term, included:

 (i) A participatory targeting methodology for the village community to identify the poor
and hard-core poor. After the participatory exercise had been completed, the list of selected
beneficiaries was publicly displayed for three months so that beneficiaries that were missed
could add themselves to the list.

(ii) User-friendly community operational manuals, developed with participation of the
community after mid-term to help internalize the rules and guidelines of the CDD approach,
and develop a shared understanding among community leaders, members of community
institutions, and facilitating staff.

(iii) A social auditing mechanism created through the Social Audit Committee, designed to
promote transparency and accountability of village institutions (Gram Samitis, Committees
and JGs).

(iv) Community Professionals drawn from experienced community leaders who voluntarily
developed their own villages before offering their skills and knowledge to new communities
for a fee. This system of “community-to-community” capacity-building technical assistance
was institutionalized through the establishment of community professional centres. Two such
centres have already been developed in the original project districts and are offering services
to villages in the AF areas. This promotion of a community-to-community learning approach
through community professionals contributed immensely to improving implementation
effectiveness and project sustainability.

8.5      Technical assistance and South-to-South exchanges were organized, drawn from
similar projects in the region. These exchanges contributed to the Foundation’s capacity and
its ability to contribute to meeting project performance targets. For the second and third AF
credits, the supervision team provided continuous technical and capacity-building assistance
to the Foundation. This included guidance for a community to community approach for
scaling up the quality of village level processes (information drawn from Country Team).
                                               17


The team also supported the Foundation in creating a Disaster Risk Management Unit and
assisting expansion of its activities in disaster-affected areas. There were relatively minor
shortcomings in the quality of supervision.

8.6   Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory in accordance with the
IEG methodology (whereby, in case of a split rating, the overall rating is below the line when
outcome is rated below the line).

9. Borrower Performance
Government Performance

9.1     Government performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The Economic
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance supervised all externally financed projects and
was extensively briefed by all Bank supervision missions. The Division subsequently ensured
that the implementing agency, the SDF, followed Bank procedures. The Government
provided good support to CDD activities implemented by the Foundation and was responsive
to the need for changes during implementation, including as a result of the mid-term review.

9.2    Government performance, however, was undermined by a six-month delay in
appointing members of the Foundation’s Government body. The Government and
Governing Body also met too infrequently with the Foundation, preventing timely decision
making. The delay of the appointment of a Managing Director (for about five months in
2010) also caused delays in implementation. There were also reportedly inaccurate or
inappropriate decisions regarding project scope and costs.

Implementing Agency Performance

9.3     Implementing agency performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The main
implementing agency was the SDF. As a relatively new institution (created in 2001), the
Foundation encountered several obstacles, including the lack of a human resource policy
throughout the project, the absence of a Managing Director for five months in 2010 and of a
General Manager for Programs for 1.5 years in 2008 and 2009, and an ineffective M&E
system. However, the Foundation adjusted to changing circumstances over the course of
implementation. During the last project year, the Foundation also made progress in several
areas, including: (i) completion or rollover of unfinished tasks of the flood and cyclone AF
Credits to the Social Investment Program Project II; (ii) successful preparation for and
negotiation of the latter project; (iii) adoption and implementation of a new human resource
policy; and (iv) a significant increase in delivery capacity. The Palli Karma Sahayak
Foundation was a secondary implementing agency that implemented the livelihoods activity
under the AF Credit II and, together with NGOs, implemented the disaster relief activities
under AF Credit III. However, there were shortcomings associated with these agencies in
terms of the experience needed to respond effectively to a disaster situation.

9.4    Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
                                                     18


10. Monitoring and Evaluation
M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization

10.1 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization is overall rated as
Modest owing to several shortcomings in design and implementation as explained below.

10.2 M&E Design: The design of the M&E system suffered from a number of
weaknesses. The definitions of performance and results indicators in project documents were
unclear. The indicators were not consistent among: (i) the PAD core text (the key
performance indicators section); (ii) the PAD project design summary in the log frame in
Appendix 1; (iii) the indicators developed for the three AF credits; (iv) the indicators
reported by the SDF in its end-of-project Results Framework; and (v) the indicators
measured by independent impact assessment surveys.

10.3 M&E Implementation: The project’s design shortcomings led to difficulties in
implementation of M&E activities. Insufficient attention was paid to systematic reporting on
concrete, practical indicators of project achievements, such as the use of infrastructure works,
development of livelihood activities, and the contribution of these activities to overall
welfare. M&E implementation was also made difficult by the post-midterm review switch to
a more complex project. While the original M&E system was based on the PAD indicators,
the new system, based on the Project Implementation Plan, was radically different. A results
framework was created to reflect the new project design, but with inconsistencies among the
indicators in the AF credits and the PAD.2

10.4 M&E Utilization: Several innovations developed at mid-term helped to strengthen
the monitoring and reporting processes of the project. However, there is a lack of information
on how these processes were used to provide targeted assistance to under-performing areas in
a manner that utilized the project learning to course-correct and improve performance in real
time. Notable innovations included the introduction of a village matrix that aggregated
information on community activities and achievements and that was updated monthly in a
participatory manner and posted on a board outside the Gram Samiti office. This matrix
proved to be a tool for transparency and accountability. A third-party process monitoring
system was implemented by an independent agency, the Centre for Natural Resource Studies.
This system helped to restructure the project’s approach at the mid-term review, including
providing monthly recommended action tables and reporting on irregularities and corruption
cases. A web-based Management Information System was developed to track project



2
  For example, the ICR notes that: “The results framework established in the original PAD was not strictly
followed throughout the project, nor did the AF project papers provide a solid basis upon which to track
progress” (p.28). As a result, Appendix 2, “PDO Achievement Table,” in a number of instances could not use
the PAD results framework indicators because they were not reported but instead used proxy indicators from the
SDF results framework (see ICR, Appendix 2 tables).
                                              19


implementation, but its effectiveness was limited due to continuous changes in project design
and the fact that the SDF was not equipped to handle management of the software.

10.5    Monthly monitoring review meetings took place at district and cluster levels to track
progress and resolve implementation issues. Quarterly monitoring & learning forums
including all field staff were held with community involvement that led to action plans to
address emerging issues.

Compliance with World Bank’s Policies

Safeguards

10.6 The project was designated Environmental Category B. Two safeguards policies were
triggered: (1) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01) and (2) Indigenous Peoples (OP
4.20). The project put in place a screening process for the sub-projects. It also developed a
Tribal Development Plan, in consultation with tribal populations. Three environmental
specialists participated in supervision missions. The ICR, however, contains no details of the
implementation of either operational policy or compliance. During the PPAR mission’s
interviews, the project team accepted that the safeguards were not handled in a structured
manner in SIP I.

Financial Management and Procurement

10.7 Financial management conducted by the implementing agency (SDF) was
consistently reported as satisfactory. The Foundation developed an internal audit
arrangement to reduce fiduciary delinquency. It also appointed an External Audit Agency to
investigate compliance issues. A governance and accountability framework was introduced
and a community-driven financial management approach was followed. In an environment
where misappropriation of funds was a major issue for development activities, the project
established mechanisms to minimize leakages and maximize the share of project funding
directly used by communities for development activities. Project funds were transferred from
the Foundation directly to the accounts of communities, which were given responsibility for
their management. Disbursements were made in installments based on Foundation appraisals
of village proposals and completion of physical milestones.

10.8     A Community Operational Manual developed with and adopted by communities
included a procurement manual to serve as a guide to procurement committees for the
purchase of goods and contracting of works. At completion, an estimated 2,000 community
members had been trained in procurement. However, the limited staffing of the Foundation
procurement team meant that the pace of delivery of these trainings was slower than optimal.
Community-level social audit committees, independent from other community and project
institutions, had the mandate of reviewing procurement, funds management, and decision
making processes. Bank procurement rules were adhered to by the Foundation, although in
some cases it found them cumbersome and not sufficiently flexible, leading to delays caused
by the need for Bank approval on a number of items.

10.9 The process monitoring system mentioned in the previous section was employed for
ensuring financial accountability of interventions. In an estimated 90% of cases, the
                                              20


independent Centre for Natural Resource Studies (CNRS) addressed problem cases directly
with those concerned, without needing to involve Foundation management. At project
completion, corruption cases occurred in about 20 to 25 villages (2% of villages) and
concerned 40 to 50 people (0.02% of people involved). In rare cases, members of Foundation
staff were involved and were consequently fired.

11. Lessons
      In rural areas, where citizens lie outside the reach of the state, facilitating the
       formation of strong institutions is fundamental to enabling the poor to access
       different sources of social and economic prosperity. The Social Investment
       Program transformed its approach to institution building at mid-term by ensuring that
       institutions were inclusive and responsive to the felt needs of the poor. This approach
       was reflective of the more effective design of rural livelihood programs under
       implementation elsewhere in the region at the time.

      Gender inclusion, including female leadership, in village development programs
       is a positive but insufficient tool to ensure high quality, sustained and effective
       leadership over a multi-year program period. Evaluations of CDD programs have
       shown that for leadership to be effective, it should be (1) rotated amongst members;
       and that (2) leaders should have the requisite time needed and demonstrate a high
       level of commitment towards nurturing the less well-off group members (with regard
       to savings, lending, and investment behavior). Elite female members of society have
       the ability to extend access and information to group members, but they also may lack
       the time and dedication needed to ensure effective implementation of the group goals.

      CDD projects offer a ready platform for outreach to disaster-affected
       populations, but additional disaster-related activities require thorough
       assessment of an implementing agency’s capacity to adapt, to manage quick
       influxes of AF, and to reach disaster-affected populations outside of a project
       area. The Social Investment Program provided a relevant and ready platform to
       respond to two successive natural disasters, but the SDF required rapid retooling to be
       able to respond to the crises in a timely way. The needs of crisis victims also differed
       significantly from those of other project beneficiaries. This complexity, related to the
       need to manage these dual streams, requires strategic management and a
       reconfiguration of service delivery mechanisms, project metrics, and monitoring and
       reporting means.
                                              21




References
Asian Development Bank. 2010. “Country Gender Assessment Bangladesh.” Manila, the
Philippines.Bangladesh Planning Commission. 2015. “Millennium Development Goals: Bangladesh Progress
Report 2015,” General Economics Division

World Bank. 2003a. “Social Investment Program Project. Project Appraisal Document” Washington, DC:
World Bank.

World Bank. 2003b. “Social Investment Program Project. Project Information Document.” Washington, DC:
World Bank.

World Bank. 2003c. “Social Investment Program Project. Project Agreement.” Washington, DC; World Bank.

World Bank. 2006. “Social Investment Program Project. Mid-term Review Special Study of the Social
Investment Program Project.”

World Bank. 2007a. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing I (Consolidation) Project
Paper.” Washington, DC: World Bank

World Bank. 2007b. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing I (Consolidation) Credit
Agreement.” Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2007c. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing II (Flood) Project Paper.”
Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2008a. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing II (Flood) Project Agreement .”
Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2008b. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing III (Cyclone) Project Paper .”
Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2008c. “Social Investment Program Project. Additional Financing III (Cyclone) Project
Agreement.” Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2010a. Understanding the dynamics of gender and nutrition in Bangladesh: implications for
policy and programming. Washington, DC: World Bank.
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/07/16270714/understanding-dynamics-gender-nutrition-
bangladesh-implications-policy-programming.

World Bank. 2010b. “Social Investment Program Project. Project Appraisal Document for SIPP II.”
Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2011. “Social Investment Program Project. Implementation Completion Report.” Washington,
DC: World Bank.

World Bank. 2016. “Social Investment Program Project Implementation Completion Review Report.”
Washington, DC: World Bank.
                                                  22




Appendix A. Basic Data Sheet
Social Investment Program Project, Credit IDA-3740

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)-
                           Appraisal                 Actual or                      Actual as % of
                            estimate              current estimate                 appraisal estimate
Total project costs               22.54                    60.03                          266
Loan amount                       18.24                      -
Co-financing                        -                        -
Cancellation                        -                        -



                               Appraisal             Actual or
                               estimate           current estimate                  Approval Date
Original Credit                   18.24                17.69 (97%)                    April 7, 2003
Additional Financing 1              8                  7.76 (97%)                     June 21, 2007
Additional Financing 2             25                  22.94 (91%)                  February 7, 2008
Additional Financing 3             50                   9.38(19%)                     July 31, 2008




Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                           FY03     FY04           FY05    FY06            FY07
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  1.12     1.83           5.80    12.8           15.2
Actual (US$M)                              1.68     4.05           8.44    14.5           18.2
Actual as % of appraisal                   150      221.3          145.5   113.2          119.7
Date of final disbursement January, 2012

Project Dates
                                                       Original                          Actual
Initiating memorandum                                  06/24/1998                      06/24/1998
Negotiations                                           10/25/1999                      01/15/2003
Board approval                                         03/14/2000                      03/18/2003
Signing                                                                                04/07/2003
Effectiveness                                                                          04/20/2003
Closing date                                                                           06/30/2011
                                          23                            APPENDIX A


Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time And Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                                                Us Dollars (Including Travel And Consultant Costs)
 Stage of Project Cycle    No. of Staff Weeks
Lending
FY03                             37.01                              62,625.01
FY04
FY05
FY06
FY07


                  Total:         37.01                              62,625.01


Supervision/ICR
FY03                              9.22                              33,320.36
FY04                             39.29                              90,054.35
FY05                             50.76                             120,035.11
FY06                              47.8                             154,548.75
FY07                             39.87                              92,904.54
FY08                             32.46                             108,699.37
FY09                             33.53                             111,076.18
FY10                             24.97                              88,071.21
FY11                             32.77                             104,331.33
FY12                              7.52                              16,050.99


                  Total:        318.19                             919,092.19
APPENDIX A                              24


Task Team Members

Names                                               Title   Unit
Lending
 Wahida Huq                  Task Team Leader               SASRD
 Jeeva Perumalpillai-Essex   Lead Operations Officer        SASRD
 Gajanand Pathmanathan       Sector Manager                 SASRD
 Said Al Habsy               Chief Counsel                  LEGMS
 Kishor Uprety               Sr. Counsel                    LEGMS
 L. Panneer Selvan           Regional Safeguard Coord
 P.K. Subramanian            Sr. Financial Mgmt Spec.       SARFM
 Chingboon Lee               Country Coordinator            SACBD
 Enrique Pantoja             Country Officer                SACBD
 Clive Harris                Sr. Private Sector Spec.       SASEI
 Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi         Sr. Transport Engineer         SASEI
 Khawaja Minnatullah         Sr. RWSS Specialist            EWDSA
 G.M. Khurshid Alam          Sr. Private Sector Spec.       SASFP
 Nilufar Ahmad               Sr. Social Scientist           SASES
 Jeffrey Racki               Sector Manager                 SASES
 Ivonna Teresa Kratynski     Sr. Finance Officer            LOAG2
 Zafrul Islam                Sr. Procurement Spec.          SARPS
 Agustin Litvak              Procurement Advisor            SARPS
 Suraiya Zannath             Sr. Fin. Mgmt Spec.            SARFM
 Paul J. Martin              Sr. Environmental Spec.        SASES
 Mohammad Sayeed             Disbursement Officer           SARFM
 Marilou Uy                  Sector Director                SASFP
Shakila Khan                 Program Assistant              SASRD
 Deborah Ricks               Program Assistant              SASRD
Supervision
Ousmane Seck                 Task Team Leader               SASDA
Meena Munshi                 Former Task Team Leader        SASDA
Parmesh Shah                 Lead Rural Dev. Spec.          SASDA
Pushina Kunda Ng‘andwe       Rural Development Spec.        SASDA
Sugata Talukder              Operations Analyst             SASDA
Suraiya Zannath              Sr. Financial Mgmt. Spec.      SARFM
Ghazali Raheem               Consultant (FAO)                FAO
Marghoob Hussein             Sr. Procurement Spec.          SARPS
                                       25                            APPENDIX A


Toufiq Ahmed              Procurement Specialist                         SARPS
Nadia Sharmin             Environmental Spec.                            SASDI
                          Sr. Natural Resources Management
Yuka Makino                                                              SASDI
                          Spec.
Moyeen Sabah              Social Development Analyst                     SASDS
Brenda L. Scott           Information Assistant                          SASDO
Amani Haque               Program Assistant                              SASDO
Henry Bagazonzya          Sr. Financial Sector Spec.                     SASFP
Winston Dawes             Rural Financial Spec.                          SASDA
C.S. Renjit               Community Development Specialist              Consultant
Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi     Sr. Environmental Specialist                   SASDI
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi       Sr. Transport Engineer                         SASEI
                          Sr. Rural Development Specialist
Natasha Hayward                                                          SASDA

Farzana Morshed           Operations Analyst                             SASRD
Mohammad A. Sadeque       Procurement Specialist
Melissa Williams          Operations Officer                             SASDA
                          Sr. Rural Development Specialist
Samik Sundar Das                                                         SASDA
Amin Khandaker            Consultant
Mona Sur                  Sr. Economist                                  SASDA
                          Sr. RWSS Specialist.
Khawaja Minnatullah                                                      SASDN
                          (Consultant)
Anne Ritchie                                                             SASDA
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd   Community Financing
Shakila Khan Tandra       Program Assistant                              SASDO
Erwin De Nys              Sr. Water Resource Spec.                       LCSEN
Vinayak Narayan Ghatate   Consultant                                     SASDA
Luis Coirolo              Consultant                                     SASDA
Mohinder S. Mudahar       Consultant                                     SASAR
C.S. Reddy                Consultant                                     SASAR
Harbans Lal Aneja         Consultant                                     SARPS
Imtiaz Uddin Ahmad        Consultant
Md. Abul Kalam Khalifa    Consultant
Subrata S. Dhar           Sr. Commication Officer                        SAREX
Sadia Afroze Chowdhury    Sr. Public Health Spec.                        SASHD
Prasad Chandra Mohan      Sr. Communication Spec.
Maitreya B. Das           Social Assess. Program & Baseline Survey
                                             26




Appendix B. Methodology
This project performance assessment seeks to evaluate the relevance, efficiency and effectiveness of
the Social Investment Program Project. Both the ICR and ICRR report on the challenges of
measuring the overarching objective of the project, namely, to “develop effective and efficient
financing and institutional arrangements for improving access to local infrastructure and basic
services.” Challenges to assessing effectiveness were associated with the inappropriateness of the
M&E system and associated indicators and the lack of available data to measure this. The main
methods used to conduct this PPAR were a desk review of project documentation, interviews
with Government officials and implementation agency staff, and Village level group interviews.

Village Level Group Interviews. The assessment conducted fieldwork in Jamaplur, one of the
two project districts. The Village selection criteria included the relative performance based on a
grading system and their proximity to town centers. The assessment conducted fourteen group
interviews of different stakeholder groups in four villages, choosing two high performing
villages (Grade A) and two low performing villages (Grade C). D villages were not included in
the sample as the village institutions and Jibikayan groups in D villages were inactive). The
selection of the villages was also chosen based on their proximity to the main town – or Jamaplur
town – with a high and low performing village visited near the town and a high and low
performing village visited approximately 40 km away. In each village, group interviews were
organized with the project identified “hard core poor, poor and youth Groups.” These groups
were randomly chosen in the villages. In addition, group interviews were also organized with the
Gram Samitis and Village Credit Organization members. Since only four villages were visited,
the names of the villages are not published here.
                                                         27                                   APPENDIX B


  Key Village Level Evaluative Questions and Data Sources
Key Evaluation
                                               Key Questions                                       Data Source
Themes
Creating Strong      What institutions did the project create? Have these institutions been     Project Documents
and Accountable        sustained? How was the institution constituted? How were/are                 Interviews
Rural                 decisions made? Who participates and why? How is it financially
Institutions           maintained? How much time? Probe role of women, youth and
                                                  vulnerable.
Access to              How was INF allocated? Was the infrastructure distributed in an          Project Documents
Infrastructure         equitable fashion? Has the infrastructure been maintained – who               Interviews
                                    finances and maintains infrastructure?                    Focus Group Discussions
                                                                                                     Site Visits
Rural Finance       How were rural savings and lending groups formed? Who participated? SIP Phase II and III data
                       Who trained? How were messages communicated? How would
                                       financial literacy been measured?                Interview with the Social
                                                                                           Development Fund
                    What is the current status of the Savings Base?
                                 What is the current status of Group Lending?             FGDs with the Rural
                          What do we know about who saves, borrows, and repays?           Finance Committees

                      What was the criteria for taking a loan? The second loans, or larger
                    loans? What is the rate/service fee? What has been the repayment rate,
                             and has this changed over time – if so, then why?
Impact on           How has the INF provided by the project enabled access to livelihood         Project Documents
Poverty, Welfare,                  activities or welfare enhancements?                               Interviews
Livelihoods                                                                                   Focus Group Discussions
                    How has the mobilization of savings and access to a source of lending              (Youth,
                     helped to provide income opportunities, or enhanced welfare? How
                         were loans used, for what kind of activities. (Probe RNFE).

                       How did the Revolving Grant mechanism – the one time grant –
                       stimulate access to livelihood opportunities or have an effect on
                                                   welfare?

                       What are the major constraints you face in taking up new income
                                            generating activities?

Youth                 What special opportunities were offered to Youth? How were the             Project Documents
                       targeted? How did these activities behave differently than other              Interviews
                    activities in the project? Anecdotally, how do rural youth perceive the   Focus Group Discussions
                                   project as compared to other beneficiaries’?                (Youth as compared to
                                                                                                      others).
Gender                          See Gender Assessment (AnnexAppendix C).
                                               28


Appendix C. Gender Assessment
This assessment was designed to understand the gender dimensions of the Social
Investment Program, Phase I. This study was commissioned as an input into the IEG
learning product “The Impacts of Community-Driven Development Interventions on Women’s
Empowerment” and doubles as a project performance assessment tool to collect and consider
gender relevant project information. To conduct the gender analysis, the project performance
team assessed the gender elements of the CAS, PRS, project documents, and within the
project documents, the M&E framework and the results indicators. It supplemented this work
by integrating gender questions into fifteen Focus Groups that were convened as part of the
PPAR field mission.

Country Context. Bangladesh’s significant growth over the past two decades has been
accompanied by notable advances in poverty alleviation, primary school enrolment, gender
parity in education, a lowering of the infant and under-five mortality rates and maternal
mortality ratio, an improvement in immunization coverage and a reduction in the incidence
of communicable diseases.3 As part of this process, women’s opportunities and public
participation have significantly changed. Major progress has been made in closing the gender
gap in school enrollment at both primary and secondary levels: girls’ enrollment currently
outnumbers that of boys. Growth has been spurred by the rise of opportunities in the
garment industry, which has provided a large number of formal sector jobs for women and
that comprises more than 80 percent of its labor force.4 Bangladesh has achieved the eighth
lowest political gender gap in the world. The proportion of seats held by women in the
national parliament doubled from 10 per cent in 1990 to 20 per cent in 2011.5 In addition, the
country has had a female head of state for longer than any other country, which has
contributed to female presence in the political sphere, as well as a changing of traditional
views towards women overall.

Gender in the Country Assistance Strategies (2003-2016). Gender emerged as a
crosscutting issue in the 2001 CAS: “gender equity and empowerment will be treated as
integral elements” in the strategic objectives. It also focused on identification of performance
indicators for gender outcomes and building the capacity of the project staff to undertake
gender analysis with assistance from the IDA in partnership with other donors. Overall,
institutional capacity building was given prime importance, whereas gender or women’s
empowerment were not explicitly considered in the design of SIPP. The 2006 CAS
continued to recognize gender as a crosscutting issue for Bangladesh country programs. In
preparation of the CAS, country-wide consultations were held and reiterated the role of the
Bank in facilitating the development process across different development issues including
“gender and social protection issues”. The 2011-2014 CAS re-emphasized gender as a cross
cutting theme across all pillars of development and reaffirms its commitment to gender
mainstreaming with a special focus on women’s economic empowerment.


3
  “Millennium Development Goals: Bangladesh Progress Report 2015”, General Economics Division (GED),
Bangladesh Planning commission, 2015.
4
  Country Gender Assessment Bangladesh, Asian Development Bank, 2010.
5
  http://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/newsroom/news/WCMS_234670/lang--en/index.htm
                                              29                              APPENDIX C



It speaks to the importance of “gender disaggregated analysis, gender-sensitive design and
monitoring” for inclusive development.

Gender in the PRSP. The government strategy for reducing poverty, as reflected in the I-
PRSP, focuses on four areas: (a) expanding the scope for pro-poor economic growth through
expanding income and employment opportunities for the poor; (b) fostering human
development for the poor; (c) providing social safety nets for the poor against various
anticipated or unanticipated income (consumption) shocks; and (d) favorably influencing
participatory governance by enhancing the voice of the poor and strengthening women's
empowerment. The Bangladesh Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the World
Bank’s CAS 2001 acknowledge that inequality and social exclusions (particularly for
women) reinforces income poverty.

Gender Analysis of the Project

Gender was not a consideration in project design. Prior to mid-term, the reference to
women’s participation is included in the reference to vulnerable groups (e.g. poor and
socially excluded female-headed household, disabled, tribal people, street children, etc.).
These groups were provided assistance through a Social Assistance Program (SAP) aimed
at increasing the capacity of excluded groups to participate in mainstream development
activities through: (a) advocacy programs; (b) occupation skills training; (c) support for
pregnant women and risk-pooling pilot initiatives; (d) legal aid support; and (e) grants for
the graduated trainees and worst affected natural hazard victims. The approach, prior to mid-
term was found by the ICR and the PPAR to be insufficient. SAP beneficiaries received a
small, one time grant and these grants were too small to have made a meaningful impact on
livelihoods or welfare. Neither women nor the vulnerable especially benefited from the SAP
activities.

Prior to the Mid-Term, there was a heavy focus on infrastructure due to the nature of
the group composition. Village Development Committees and Project Management
Committees had been captured by non-poor members, and were mainly male. During this
period, the voices of the poor were suppressed. Criteria set at design, including targeted
assistance to female headed poor households had not been respected during the early part of
the project period in despite of the fact that there were specific targets set (30 percent of the
Village Development Committees; 30 percent of the CG members; and at least 25 percent of
the Project Management Committees were to have been women, the poor and vulnerable.)

The project only superficially included women in the infrastructure and works portion
of the project. According to the PAD, ‘the targeting for community infrastructure works
would be broad-based but include specific conditions for inclusion of the poor and women in
the eligibility criteria for financing of sub-projects.’ There was a particular focus on the
beenfits that would accrue to women from the increase in quantity and quality of water:
‘about 250,000 people (of whom at least 30 percent will be poor and women) will benefit
through access to safe water, sanitation facilities, and other essential social, transport and
trade infrastructure services through the implementation of about 1,800 community
infrastructure sub-projects’. The PAD theorizes that ‘investment in safe drinking water and
APPENDIX C                                   30


sanitation, by improving the health of rural populations as well as reducing time spent,
especially by women, in transporting water, will contribute to poverty alleviation and
increase the productive capacity of rural people, particularly women’.6 Benefits of improved
water supply both in terms of quantity and quality are expected to have a positive effect on
health outcomes, and that these health benefits in turn would lead to labor productivity and
income gains via a variety of direct and indirect pathways, which would also benefit women.
Since none of the results data is disaggregated, it is impossible to report whether these results
were achieved, including for women.

The original community groups were also not provided with basic gender awareness
training, knowledge and understanding on prevention of Violence against Women. The
staff of SDF, CSO, and PO are also lacking clear understanding of gender awareness building
and women empowerment focused elements. This was a missed opportunity to raise
awareness around such issues as the dowry, early marriage, women’s health, pregnancy, and
hygiene, and as stated above, violence against women. Rather, the first few years of the
project were characterized by a focus on “the hardware” (INF) rather than the software
necessary to ensure equitable and sustainable rural development

Gender integration was fully achieved after the Mid-term and the Restructuring of the
Project. This is due mainly to the support of a key member of the Bank’s Rural Livelihoods
teams, which put poverty and gender squarely at the center of its rural development
programs. The MTR recommended and the project implemented a full restructuring of the
project’s village organizational structures. As such,after the MTR, women and girls
constituted 95 percent of the membership of the 1407 village level institutions, i.e. Gram
Samiti, Gram Parishad and the 20,414 village level Jibikayan Groups. Seventy-seven percent
of the total 1224 no. of Gram Samitis are active and led by women. Interestingly, women
appear to be the de facto participants of this project since many of the men residing in these
areas were too busy or too uninterested in joining once the project was gearered to being
truly pro-poor. Many of the men in the project areas are day laborers and farmers.

All the groups received financial skill trainings, including saving and credit management
training. The trainings were mostly limited to the leader and cashier of each institutions
(Gram Samiti, Jibikayan Groups, VCOs, Social Audit Committees). While many of the
recipients of the trainings were women, one of the downfalls of this design feature was that
the women did not rotate. So while some women were trained, these skills were not
adequately imparted to most female members of the group (non-leaders). This finding is
salient: it raises a more complex questions as to which women are empowered, whether
empowerment is limited to a few of the many women who behave as general participants in
CDD project, versus their leadership. It begs for more research across CDD programs on
how women join, their need to be otherwise socially connected or financially endowed to
assume leadership roles, and ultimately the distribution of benefits cross these different tiers
of women groups.



6
    SIPP, PAD
                                             31                             APPENDIX C


Gender Related Results: ICR and PPAR Findings

The original project design and field implementation for the first 3-4 years of the project did
not focus on gender specific demands or pay any special attention to address women’s needs
in the community. As mentioned in the ICR, the community infrastructure subproject has
suffered due to elite capture, where women were only engaged as paid labor in road
construction and maintenance, but did not participate in planning and management.

Although the project did not explicitly target women, active participation after mid-term in
accessing savings and credit activities by women has certain positive impacts in the
community as well as the households. The findings from the field research suggests that, the
formation of women-only community institutions, their access to credit, and livelihood
interventions helped build women’s capacity for collective decision-making and taking
actions. It also helped strengthening social capital as measured by community cohesion and
inclusion in the community institutions which categorically enhanced women’s
empowerment -in the form of participation in community decisions and social and legal
awareness.  

Evidence of women’s participation in their own development process can be found in sources
outside of the project documentation. For example, the Asian Development Bank’s Country
Gender Assessment Report (2010) found that a large number of women have been integrated
into community institutions and have taken responsibility for rural and urban development,
which in turn has paved the way for women’s political empowerment (many of whom are
now elected as members of the local government councils.
                                                                    32



Appendix D. Village Grading Criteria
                                                                                                                            Allocated
               Indicators                                           Marks awarded to indicators
                                                                                                                             marks
TARGETING, UPDATING LIST & INCLUSIVENESS                                                                                       5
Updated Wealth Ranking/ PIP list is   Reports available and updated within 6-months. - (2)
available.                            Reports available and updated within 6 – 12 months. - (1)                               2
                                      Reports available and not updated for last 12-months. - (0)
Unresolved Complaints about the list  No conflict arisen about the checklist and do the process follow (1)
                                                                                                                               1
                                      Otherwise (0)
Inclusive Poor and Hard Core Poor     At least 80% poor and hard core poor included in JG (2)
                                      About 70 - 79% poor and hard core poor included in JG (1)                               2
                                      <70% poor and hard core poor included in JG (0)
Functioning of GP& GS                                                                                                          9
Regular meeting of GP held in time as per      Participation with quorum for last 3-meetings.-(3)
COM                                            Last 3GP meetings held in proper time but 1 meeting held without quorum -
                                                (GP meeting - quarterly).- (2)                                                 3
                                               Otherwise. – (0)

Regular meeting of GS held in time as per      Participation with quorum for last 3-meetings.-(3)
COM                                            Last 3GS meetings held in proper time but 1 meeting held without quorum
                                                                                                                               3
                                                (GS meeting- monthly).- (2)
                                               Otherwise. – (0)
                                                                     33                              APPENDIX D


Contents of meeting are properly             All meeting minutes of Gram Parishad, Gram Samiti and SAC decisions are
discussed and decisions recorded.               properly documented by the community and disseminated in time (at least last
                                                3-meeting).- (3)
                                               All meeting minutes of Gram Parishad, Gram Samiti and SAC decisions are not    3
                                                properly documented by the community.- (1)
                                               Meeting discussions are not rightly addressed and decisions not properly
                                                recorded.- (0)
Knowledge on Project principles and role       Adequate. – (3)
& responsibilities of Office Bearers           Moderately.- (2)                                                               3
                                               Un-satisfactorily. – (0)
Eligibility Access of Village Fund             3rd installments of VDF - (5)
(Applicable for batch-1 villages)              At least 2nd installment of VDF - (2)
                                               At least 1st installment of VDF – (1)
                                               Other wise – (0)
Eligibility Access of Village Development      At least 2nd installments of IDF & CISF and 1st installment of SF (5)          5
and Risk Reduction Fund (VDRRF)                1st installment of IDF, CISF & SF (3)
(Applicable for batch-3-9 villages)            Otherwise – (0)
Construction of GS Office ( deed,              GS Office has been constructed and utilized by the community as per COM. –
location, quality) and it’s use                 (3).
                                               GS office has been constructing as per COM but not yet handed over to GS –
                                                                                                                               3
                                                (2)
                                               GS office has been constructed as per COM but not followed the rules (deed,
                                                location, & quality). – (0)
Number of One-time grant recipients who        More than 20% of the assisted vulnerable are eligible to get SF loan– (2)
are eligible to avail Shabolombi loan          Other wise –(0)
                                                                                                                               2


YOUTH SKILL TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT                                                                                            9
APPENDIX D                                                      34


Use of youth skill development fund           At least 70% youth received skill development fund. - (2)
                                              60 - 69% youth received skill development fund. - (1)                       2
                                              < 60% youth received skill development fund. - (0)
Employment of youth (self & wage              At least 70 % youth employed (3)
employment)                                   60- 69% youth employed. - (2)
                                                                                                                           3
                                              50-59% youth employed. - (1)
                                              < 50% youth employed. - (0)
CRR of youth loan                             At least 90% CRR (4)
                                              80-89% CRR (3)
                                              70-79%CRR (2)                                                               4
                                              60-69%% CRR (1)
                                              <60% CRR (0)
UTILIZATION OF SHABOLOMBI FUND                                                                                             20
Transfer of SF from GS to VCO Accounts  GS transferred SF to VCO’s Bank Accounts within 15-days. – (1)
                                                                                                                           1
                                        More than 15-days. – (0)
Distribution of SF loan                 More than 80% JG members received SF - (5)
                                        At least 70-79% JG members received SF – (4)                                      5
                                        60- 69% JG members received SF – (3)
                                        At least 50- 59% JG members received SF – (2)
                                        < 50% JG members received SF - (0)
Idle fund in VCO’s Bank Account         Idle money for more than 15-days in the Bank (after receipt of installments) or   2
                                         20% of revolving fund lying idle in the bank, If yes (0) and if no (2)
OTR of SF                               At least 95% OTR for last 3-months. – (4)
                                        90-94% OTR for last 3-month – (3)
                                        85-89% OTR for last 3-month – (2)                                                 4
                                        80-- 84 % OTR for last 3-months. – (1 )
                                        < 80% OTR for last 3-months.- (0)
CRR of SF                               At least 90% CRR – (5)
                                        80- 89% CRR – (4)                                                                 5
                                        70-79% CRR – (3)
                                                         35                                                  APPENDIX D



                                            60- 69% CRR – (2 )
                                            < 60% CRR.- (0)
 Recycling Ratio                            The village receiving score above 1.5 - (3)
                                            The village receiving score 1.3 - 1.4 - (2)                                        3
                                            The village receiving score 1 and less than 1- (0)
BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS OF GS & VCO                                                                                                   6
 Satisfactorily keeping and maintaining  Books of Accounts maintained and updated as per COM. – (3)
 Books of Accounts of GS                 Books of Accounts maintained but not updated in last one month. – (2)                 3
                                         Books of Accounts maintained un-satisfactorily and not updated. – (0)
 Satisfactorily keeping and maintaining  Books of Accounts maintained and updated as per COM. – (3)
 Books of Accounts of VCO.               Books of Accounts maintained and not updated for last one month. – (2)                3
                                         Books of Accounts maintained un-satisfactorily and not updated. – (0)
 Procurement is done as per COM.         At least 80% of Procurement has been done as per COM guideline.- (2)
                                                                                                                                2
                                         Less than 80% of Procurement has been done as per COM guideline.- (0)
 Functioning of SAC                                                                                                             6
 Regularly meeting minutes recorded and  SAC meeting is held at least three times in a quarter during each of last four
 findings presented at GP meetings        consecutive quarters with recording of minutes and its presentation in Gram
                                          Parishad – (3)
                                         At least two meetings are held in a quarter during the last four consecutive
                                                                                                                                3
                                          quarters with recording of minutes and its presentation in Gram Parishad – (2)
                                         At least one meeting is held in a quarter during the last four consecutive quarters
                                          with recording of minutes and its presentation in Gram Parishad (1)
                                         Otherwise – (0)
 Actions taken by GS to implement GP     SAC recommendations approved by GP have fully implemented for last 3-
 decision on SAC recommendations          meetings. – (3)
                                         SAC recommendations approved by GP have partly implemented for last 3-                3
                                          meetings. –(2)
                                         SAC recommendations approved by GP not implemented for last 2 meetings .-
                                          (0)
APPENDIX D                                                        36


Updated Village Information displayed           Update project information are displayed and accessible.- (3)
and accessible.                                 Information are partially updated, displayed and accessible.- (2)                    3
                                                 Information are not regularly updated and displayed. – (0)
Action taken on misappropriation of fund.       No misappropriation occurred.- (3)
                                                All money has been recovered -(2)
                                                                                                                                      3
                                                80% money have been recovered -(1)
                                                No action taken. –(0)
AMT recommendation resolved/                    AMT recommendations have fully acted up on and corrected – (4)
implemented                                     AMT recommendations have partially resolved. – (2)                                   4
                                                No actions have yet been taken against AMT’s recommendation. – (0)
Preparing & maintaining correct figures in      Village information correctly reported and available in the village level for last
Village Matrix                                   two months. – (4)
                                                Village information partially correct and available in village level for last two    4
                                                 months. – (2)
                                                Village information inconsistent and incorrect for last two months. – (0)
Required numbers of CP produced                 5 CPs produced and providing services. –(3)
                                                At least 3 CPs produced and providing services. – (2)                                3
                                                < 3-CPs produced and providing services. – (0)
Regular savings                                 At least 80% of the NJG members are depositing Savings regularly for last 3
                                                 months - (7)
                                                About 70- 79% of the NJG members are depositing Savings regularly for last 3
                                                 months. – (4)                                                                        7
                                                About 50- 69% of the NJG members are depositing Savings regularly for last 3
                                                 months. – (2)
                                                Less than 50%. – (0)
Operation & Maintenance of CIWs.                CIWs are maintained as per plan.- (2 )
                                                There is a plan but not implemented – (1)                                            2
                                                Other wise – (0)
IMPLEMENTATION OF GAAP & CAP                                                                                                          4
Implementation of CAP         At least one CAP exercise has been conducted within the last 1 year and at least                       2
                               70% of the recommendations in the action plan have been implemented (2)
                                               37                                                     APPENDIX D



                                  At least one CAP exercise has been conducted within the last 1 year and at least
                                     50% of the recommendations in the action plan have been implemented (1)
                                    Other wise – (0)
Implementation of GAAP              Risk has been identified and mitigation measures have been taken according to
                                     plan (2)
                                    Updating of GAAP is being done in every six months and presented in the GS               2
                                     (1)
                                    Other wise – (0)
               Total Marks                                                                                                  100
                             Grade
Score
From 80 to above             At least 95% OTR and 90% CRR of SF loan will be ensured for A grade villages. Otherwise, if any village
                             get 80 score will not be considered as A grade.
Within 70-79                 B
Within 60-69                 C
Below 60                     D
                          38


Appendix E. List of persons Consulted.

Name                                             Designation
Mazibur Rahman                 Assistant Executive Director, Bangladesh
                               Executive Education Services
Arun Kumar Mondal              Regional Manager (Monitoring, Evaluation and
                               Learning)
Shahid Rahmot Kadir            Specialist, Youth & Employment, Social
                               Development Foundation
Saiful Islam                   Specialists, Livelihoods, Social Development
                               Foundation
Lutfor Rahman                  Management, ME&L, Social Development
                               Foundation
Fazul Kader                    Deputy Managing Director, Palli Karma-
                               Sahayak Foundation (PKSF)
A.Z.M. Sakhawat Hossain        Managing Director, Social Development Fund
Sugata Talukdar                Operations Analyst, The World Bank
Mizanur Rahaman                Specialist, Community Finance
Mrittunjoy Roy                 Assistant Manager, MIS
Sri Krishna Bhowmik            Appraiser, Appraisal Monitoring Team
Shamsul Alam                   District Community Finance
Ashraful Alam                  District Officer, Institute Capacity Building
Badsa Mia                      Community Facilitator, Sonakata
Monirul Hasan                  Community Facilitator, Kastosinga
Alal Mia                       Community Facilitator, Balujhuri
Nurum Nabi                     Community Facilitator, Ujanpara
                         39


Appendix F. Jamalpur Map (IEG Site Visits)
                                         40


Appendix G. Borrower Comments


There are no comments received from the borrower.
