Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2733-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia)
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVISAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
ELEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 6, 1980
This doumnt ls a resricted diibuio  nd may be used by recipients only in the performe of
their dSa duti  Its eontents may aot oterwie be dscld without World Bank I utorinaIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                          Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                  Din. 19.1331
Din.1                                                 US$0.05227
Din.1,000                                             US$52.27
Din.1,000,000                                         US$52,265.45
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
October 1, 1979, the rate was Din. 19.1331 - $1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL               - Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI                - Community of Interest
CRO                - The Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organizations
CYR                - Community of Yugoslav Railways
ER                 - Economic Return
LDR                - Less Developed Region (of Yugoslavia)
RO                 - Roads Organization
SFRY               - Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TYH                - Trans-Yugoslav Highway



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: ELEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:           Roads Organizations (ROs) of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia
and Vojvodina.
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$125 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project focuses on eliminating bottlenecks, increasing
capacity and improving traffic operations on the Trans-
Yugoslav Highway (TYH)--Yugoslavia's main highway artery--
and would comprise: The construction of six sections
totalling 163.8 km, procurement of road maintenance and
load monitoring equipment, technical assistance (related
to the operation and maintenance of specialized equipment)
and a highway safety program. The benefits of the proposed
project, including relief of mounting congestion and
reduction of losses to the economy from the current high
accident toll on life and property, would permeate the
entire Yugoslav economy; institutional planning and co-
ordination would be strengthened and Yugoslavia's access
to international capital markets improved. No special
risks are expected in the execution of the project.
US$ Million
Estimated Cost:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
Road Construction:
(i)  Slovenia (28.8 km)                              99.8      42.8     142.6
(ii)  Croatia (35.9 km)                              102.0      43.7     145.7
(iii)  Vojvodina (17.3 km)                             37.4      16.0      53.4
(iv)  Serbia (81.8 km)                               170.2      72.8     243.0
Equipment & Technical Assistance                           0.2       1.1        1.3
Highway Safety Program                                     0.2       0.9        1.1
Physical Contingencies                                   40.9       17.5       58.4
Price Escalation                                         101.8      37.9      139.7
Total                                             552.5      232.7     785.2*
Includes about 94.2 million equivalent in taxes and duties or about
12 percent of total project costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financial Plan:                                                 US$ (Million)
Local      Foreign  Total
IBRD loan                                                 -----       125.0   125.0
Borrowers contribution with cofinancing
foreign exchange component                              552.5        107.7   660.2
Total                                               552.5       232.7   785.2
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                  US$ Million
FY81        FY82
Annual                                                     54           71
Cumulative                                                 54          125
Economic Rates
of Return:          The proposed investments in the construction elements
yield economic returns (ERs) varying from 22 percent to
36 percent. Weighted average ER of all civil works
components, which account for approximately 99 percent
of total project cost, is 24 percent. In the extreme
case where the benefits derived from all foreign vehicles
are excluded, the ER for each road section would still be
above 20 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 2752-a dated March 6, 1980
Highways and Aviation Division,
Projects Department, EMENA Region.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia),
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of
the Socialist Republic of Croatia),
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVISAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN ELEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$125.0 million to the Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia, the Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, the Republican Self-Managing
Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade, and the Provincial Community for
Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the foreign exchange cost for an Eleventh
Highway Project. The loan would bear interest at 8.25 percent per annum and would
have a term of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years. Cofinancing,
estimated at about US$107.7 million, would also be sought from other sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March
1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic Developments", 2623-YU,
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979.   Basic data
on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development.  It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique
1/   With the exception of some updating to take account of recent develop-
ments, Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of
the Report and Recommendation of the President for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Report No. P-2699-YU) of February 6, 1980.



institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
gradually evolved over the years with important new changes introduced in the
Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision
making power of workers. The federative structure of the state has been
strengthened. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has
been shifted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means of production has been potentially increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g.
enterprises, now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketable output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell
provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product
of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changes have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the
economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form
of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, eco-
nomic units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and
demand. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state
can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about 7 per-
cent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout
the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period. Per capita GNP in 1978 is estimated to be US$2,390 at 1978
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy. The share of industry in GDP has increased to
about 49 percent while agriculture has declined to about 14 percent, paving
1/   According to the 1979 World Bank Atlas.



- 3 -
the way for development of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
The past two decades have also been associated with a growing integration of
Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1954-76 exports and imports of
goods and non-factor services grew by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per
annum in real terms, respectively; much of this in the convertible currency
areas.
7.        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia is characterized by large regional income disparities. Four of the
regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with two-thirds
of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDRs). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo,
is 6 to 1. Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are large
intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between communes. These
differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of the
low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionalized. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 23.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity. These
have been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



- 4 -
the balance of payments situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
recession in Western Europe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deterio-
ration in the balance of payments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (retail prices) fueled by
external price rises, accelerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976 were
marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating the
rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation. GDP grew by 3.6 percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export. This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in merchan-
dise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports in the same year fell by 7 percent.
As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a surplus of $165
million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent. This was partly
due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price controls.
10.       A strong upturn in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mid-1976 and has continued since. There was a rapid
increase in money supply in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP grew
by 8 percent and industrial production by about 10 percent in 1977. This
upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a sharp deterioration in
the balance of payments. Inflation increased to 13 percent, exports declined
in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose by 15 percent. The balance of
payments current account recorded a deficit of $1.6 billion. There was some
slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP increased by about
6.5 percent despite a drop in agricultural production of 5 percent. The
current account deficit was almost $1.0 billion, and inflation ran at 13
percent. Policies for 1979 aimed at maintaining a 6 percent growth in GDP,
a 5 percent growth of exports, a 2 percent growth in imports and a current
account deficit of around $1.2 billion. Initial data for 1979 indicate that
while the economy continued to grow rapidly, the balance of payments further
worsened. This was principally the result of a sharp revival in the demand
for imports following a year in which import volume declined and was exacer-
bated by the rise in the price of oil and the effects on earnings from tourism
of the earthquake in Montenegro. Oil price increases are estimated to have
added in excess of $0.5 billion to the import bill in 1979. As a result of
these developments and continued slow export growth, the current account
deficit is likely to have exceeded $3.0 billion in 1979. In addition, infla-
tion increased significantly, resulting in the imposition of a price freeze in
August. While producer prices increased by about 17 percent, the increase in
retail prices was sharper, at about 23 percent, reflecting several factors
including increases in fuel prices and retail margins. In response to these
trends, government targets for 1980 include slower growth of output, price
stability and stress on expansion of exports. Such slower growth will prob-
ably continue in the early 1980s because of pressure on the balance of pay-
ments and should result in a reduction of the high inflation experienced in
1979, as occurred in 1976.



- 5 -
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the
social pressure on enterprises to create additional work places. Employment
grew by 4.5 percent per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has,
as a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes
have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was the
balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a sudden
increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline in the
number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers' remittances,
which account for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange earnings.
The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also deteriorated because of
the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments consequently be-
came a more binding constraint on economic growth. The second area was employ-
ment. External migration was a key factor in allowing the low-productivity,
private agricultural labor force to decline rapidly between 1965-73. Return
of Yugoslav workers placed considerable pressure on the labor market and in
particular the social sector, which is the main source of new jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year Plan
which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy
with emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the
power sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis was
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives were also provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant
dollars. However, imports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflect-
ing the significant degree of import substitution anticipated. Such a sharp
fall in import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to



- 6 -
be attainable during the plan period. Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.
15.       Developments in the first three years of the 1976-80 Plan were
mixed. The economy grew rapidly as planned (average annual growth of of GDP
of 6.2 percent) and modern sector employment opportunities also increased
significantly. However, merchandise export growth at 2.6 percent per annum
was very disappointing. The current account deficit was kept in check by
limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum. Despite this,
external indebtedness increased significantly and will be further exacerbated
with the deterioration in the balance of payments in 1979. Thus, although
the economy is likely to achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic growth rate
for the period 1976-80, the balance of payments situation is worse than
anticipated. Consequently to deal with the deteriorating balance of payments
Yugoslavia will need to accept a more moderate medium-term growth target and
instigate policies designed to improve the country's export performance.
Based on recent trends in external borrowing and our balance of payments
projections, Yugoslavia is expected, even with slower growth, to experience
gradually rising debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugoslavs, aware
of the balance of payments situation, are undertaking stabilization measures
and are reassessing the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The financial transfer mechanism continues as the
principal instrument for regional development. However, in addition to
this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by enter-
prises in the developed, into the less developed regions. This measure is
expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how in
addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional prob-
lem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues facing
the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum. Total medium- and long-term debt (outstanding and dis-
bursed) was $8.9 billion at the end of 1977, and is estimated at about $11
billion at the end of 1978. Short-term debt outstanding at the end of 1978
was approximately $400 million. As with several other countries, short-term
debt in 1979 appeared to have increased by about $875 million. In 1979,
Yugoslavia availed of the increased liquidity in international financial
markets to refinance earlier obligations at better terms. About three quarters
of debt contracted in recent years has come from commercial sources, in con-
vertible currencies. These have usually been provided in the form of suppliers
credits though financial credits in the Eurocurrency market have become
increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external capital
needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial long-term
credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial credits in
the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objectives. The
debt service ratio averaged 17 percent between 1974 and 1978 taking into
account Yugoslavia's receipts from workers' remittances. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to over 20 percent in the early 1980s in spite
of lower anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's past debt
service record, pragmatism and its past control over the balance of payments,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.



-7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 61 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,487
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent ($1,089.4 million) has been
for 21 loans for the transportation sector--li for highways, 6 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a
port project.  Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure
including, in addition to the transportation loans, four power loans, one
telecommunications loan, two water supply and sewerage, a drainage and five
multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components).
Eleven loans totalling $579 million (about 23 percent of the total amount lent
to Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture (including three for irrigation)
and agro-industries. Fourteen loans amounting to $300 million (about 12
percent of the total) have also been made for industry and two for tourism
amounting to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan for air pollution
control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition, IFC has made investments in
twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling about $173 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans and IFC investments as of December 31, 1979
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project (Report No. P-2699-YU) of February 6, 1980.



- 8 -
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. A recently approved (September 4, 1979) Croatia Sava Drainage
Project will increase incomes of the disadvantaged rural population in a
relatively well developed region and reduce the disparities in incomes between
the rural and urban population. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage



- 9 -
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and while the social sector is the main vehicle for growth, the
Plan clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth must neces-
sarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the individual farming
sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the
pressure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to
reducing reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food
and other agricultural products. A recently approved (February 26, 1980) Third
Agricultural Credit Project as well as forthcoming projects for agro-indus-
tries, irrigation and rural development will support agriculture development
in general and in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where
significant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth
Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for
studies of road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we
believe essential for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy
framework for the transport sector (see para.40). The Second Power Transmis-
sion Project (Loan No. 1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the
interconnected transmission system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan
No. 836-YU), will enable the supply of power throughout the country and
thereby encourage power exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (including the European Investment
Bank), there is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The
Bank, therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the



- 10 -
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
only constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 9.2 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed.  The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1977 and is projected to be about 6
percent by 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   The Transport System
29.       Yugoslavia's geographic location makes it an important crossroads in
Europe. Its trunk routes and international connections are of special signifi-
cance because Yugoslavia has borders with seven countries. The transport
system in Yugoslavia has been shaped by the country's topography and the rate
of development of the various Republics and Provinces. The country's principal
road/rail links follow the fertile Sava/Danube valley on an approximate
northwest to southeast alignment. The southern and coastal mountains have
proved formidable and costly obstacles to transport development in the trans-
verse direction. This influence, together with different historical develop-
ments between the northern and southern regions, resulted in an unbalanced
distribution of transport infrastructure by the early twentieth century:
while the northern regions already had a sound transport system, the system in
the southern regions remained underdeveloped.
30.       Following the considerable reconstruction required to repair the
ravages of World War II, Yugoslavia has engaged in a major development program
in the transport sector through construction and modernization of the national
trunk routes, both for railways and highways, and through expansion of port
facilities on the Adriatic Coast. The transport networks have also been
substantially expanded with special emphasis upon opening the less developed
regions to strengthen their integration with the rest of the country.
31.       Today, Yugoslavia's transport system is extensive and diversified,
comprising about 10,000 km of railways, 110,000 km of roads, seven main ports
and fifteen airports (ten of which handle international flights) and a size-
able network of inland and coastal waterways (the main one being the Danube).
Pipelines have come into increasing use in recent years.
32.       The roads and railways are the backbone of the transport system.
Together these account for 90-95 percent of the total goods and passenger
traffic. However, the growth of traffic by different modes has been rather



- 11 -
uneven. During the last ten years the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways
increased by about 2 percent per annum compared to an increase of about 8
percent per annum on highways. The passenger traffic on railways remained
practically unchanged during the same period, in contrast with an increase of
about 11 percent per annum on highways. As a result, road transport has
gained in relative importance. The railways, however, continue to be the main
carrier of bulk materials needed by key industries. Inland water transport
has also retained an important and competitive place, carrying about 9 percent
of total freight traffic. The ports have more than doubled their cargo
handling since the early 1960s and currently handle more than 23 million tons
per annum.
33.       In the entire transport network of Yugoslavia, the corridor, which
is shared by the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) and the railway (about 1,100 km)
and which spans Yugoslavia from its Austrian border in the northwest to
Bulgaria and Greece in the southeast, is the backbone of the Yugoslav economy.
This corridor generates about 35 percent of the Yugoslavs' GDP and directly
influences the economic activity of about 70 percent of the area of the entire
country. The present traffic volumes along most of the main highway links of
this corridor range between 12,000 to 15,000 vehicles per day and, on the
railways, 80 to 100 trains per day. Annually, about 20 million passengers and
15 to 20 million tons of freight use the existing rail and highway facilities.
The TYH is the shortest route linking Europe with the Near and Middle East,
and has thus international as well as national significance. Although the TYH
passes through only five of Yugoslavia's eight Republics and Provinces, all
benefit from its use and are affected when its operation is impaired or
interrupted.
B.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
34.       Since the mid-1960s, the administration of Yugoslavia has steadily
moved towards decentralization of decision making, with enterprises operating
under workers' self-management in a market-oriented economy. During the late
1960s and in line with this policy, the principal responsibility for transport
within the Government was transferred from Federal to Republican/Provincial
authorities. Responsibility for planning, financing, implementation and
regulation of the road network is being transferred to Communities of Interest
(COIs). Each COI consists of one or more transport enterprises and their
users, and their authority is confined to one Republic or Province. Transport
enterprises are constituted as associations of Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs), each BOAL consisting typically of a few hundred workers.
The BOALs are the prime sources of authority in the enterprise and enjoy a
large measure of autonomy (see para 3).
35.       The transfer of authority to the "grass roots" agencies and trans-
port organizations has increased the number of decision-making bodies, and has
made the countrywide planning and coordination of transport more difficult,
especially coordination between road and rail. Until recently there has been
no overall, clearly stated transport policy, although the basic rationale for
one is implicit in the country's main economic principles: free choice by
users and competition in a market economy among autonomous transport enter-
prises. In late 1976, however, with a view to creating the necessary condi-
tions for integrated development of transport, the Federation, the Republics



- 12 -
and the Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to establish a long-term trans-
port policy for the country. Since then, considerable progress has been made
in this direction, and the authorities have concluded, in early 1977, Social
Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy.
36.       According to these Social Agreements, the Government's principal
objectives for the transport sector are to: (i) build up a transport infra-
structure in support of the developments taking place in other sectors of the
economy; (ii) develop the various modes of transport as an integrated net-
work and in such proportions and combinations as will meet the total needs of
the economy at minimum cost to the community; (iii) open up less-developed
regions and foster interdependence and economic integration of the regions of
the country; (iv) provide the national network with adequate facilities for
connection to the network of neighboring countries; and (v) rationalize the
use of energy in transportation and to reduce the negative effects of trans-
portation on environment.
37.       The authorities intend to encourage the use of rail and water trans-
port for long and medium distance commodity hauls for which these transport
modes appear to have an economic advantage. Priority is to be accorded to
railway and air transport for transportation of passengers on medium and long
distances. A standard methodology is to be established to assess the alloca-
tion of resources to all modes and forms of transport infrastructure, commen-
surate with the utilization and relative advantages of each. Much of the
success in translating the transport policy into a concrete action program
will depend on the effectiveness of the decentralized decision-making process.
C.   Bank Role in the Sector
38.       As an integral part of its financial support provided by the Bank
for the transportation sector, the Bank has placed great emphasis on improved
coordination within the individual subsectors at the regional and national
levels as well as the need for developing an appropriate policy framework for
ensuring adequate coordination between the subsectors. Such emphasis on coor-
dination has been both in terms of planning and of the policy framework which
would be conducive to full economic utilization. At the national level, the
Bank has supported the establishment and strengthening of important advisory
and coordinating institutions, such as the Federal Committee for Transport and
Communications which oversees the total transportation picture in Yugoslavia
as well as the Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organizations
(CRO--see paras. 47 and 58), which focuses on the highway sector, and the
Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) which encompasses the railway subsector.
39.       One of the Bank's long-established, principal objectives for
Yugoslavia's transport sector has been the development of necessary local
skills needed to operate modal institutions. Under the Third and Fourth
Highway Projects (Loans 608-YU and 678-YU, respectively) the laws and decrees
related to the highway subsector were reviewed, the organizations for road
maintenance and their operations overhauled and improved, and traffic count-
ing, which earlier had been rudimentary, was reorganized on a systematic
and planned basis. Subsequent highway and railway projects (Fifth and Sixth
Highways, Fourth Railway and Seventh Highway--Loans 751-YU, 990-YU, 1026-YU
and 1143-YU, respectively) provided technical assistance in the formulation of
standardized guidelines for the preparation of feasibility studies, personnel
training, and action plans.



- 13 -
40.       As a basis for further consideration by the Yugoslav authorities of
important inter-modal coordination issues, and as an essential prerequisite
for our continuing dialogue on these issues with the various national and
regional authorities, two complementary studies on road-user charges and rail
costs were initiated at the Bank's request. These two studies (included as a
component of the Eighth Highway Project, Loan 1377-YU of April 13, 1977) are
designed to establish an appropriate basis for developing a policy framework
(including tariffs) which would permit the orderly economic development of
the transport sector, and are expected to provide a firm foundation for the
efficient and economic utilization and coordination of transport facilities.
The Road-user Charges Study is now complete (some of its highlights are dis-
cussed in the Staff Appraisal Report--paras. 1.11 and 1.12) and is currently
being reviewed by Government which, in consultation with the Bank, will
determine before end-1980 what steps should be undertaken to promote optimal
allocation of resources in the transportation sector. The complementary Rail
Costs Study has also progressed well, and the consultants' final report and
recommendations have been accepted by the Railway Enterprises (see Staff
Appraisal Report--para. 1.13).
41.       The Bank has also provided assistance in the preparation of an over-
all feasibility study of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) which calls for
enhanced coordination between almost all the Republics and Provinces. In
addition, to improve further highway planning at the regional level and to
provide a basis for Bank support for development of secondary and feeder
roads, the Eighth Highway Loan (Loan 1377-YU) included funds for assistance
to enable Kosovo--the least developed region of Yugoslavia--to prepare a
highway master plan with investment priorities ranked according to broad
economic criteria. Other less developed Republics/Provinces have followed
suit using the Kosovo study as a model for their own work. The resulting
highway master plan studies formed the basis for a highway sector loan (Loan
1678-YU, April 9, 1979) to five Republics and Provinces. The thrust of the
present and future transport sector lending will be to consolidate progress in
institutional development and to foster intermodal coordination.
D.   The Highway Subsector
42.       Prior to 1955, the development of road transport was rather limited
under a Government policy which accorded priority to the railways. Since
then, the Government's policy has been aimed towards creating economic condi-
tions equally favorable for the development of all transport modes, and hence
road transport has expanded rapidly. In the past decade, the number of cars
has increased about fourfold, and the number of trucks and buses has almost
doubled. Freight and passenger traffic on the highway network (in ton-km and
passenger-km) has likewise increased about two to three times during the same
period. Most of the vehicle fleet increase was met from domestic production.
Whereas a decade ago domestic production of cars and trucks was about equal to
imports, annual domestic production is now about three to four times higher
than total annual imports.
43.       The accelerated development of the paved network began in the early
1960s, at which time only about 9,000 km of paved roads were open to traffic;
the paved length has since increased about sixfold. Of the approximately
110,000 km of roads which existed at the beginning of 1979, about 50,000 km



- 14 -
were paved. However, improvements to the highway network have not kept pace
with the growth of road traffic. Many roads are, by modern standards, inade-
quately designed both in geometry and pavement structure capability. Given
high traffic volumes, unacceptable levels of congestion often result. Many
of the roads are physically deficient for the traffic they are now carrying.
44.       Although highway expenditures for investment and maintenance have
increased steadily over the last decade, they have not been sufficient in view
of the rapid expansion and modernization of the economy, and inflation has
eroded a substantial portion of the increased outlay. Highway expenditures
for new construction and upgrading increased from about US$150 million per
annum during 1966-70, to an average of about US$290 million per annum under
the 1971-75 period and to about US$500 million per annum for the 1976-80
Five-Year Plan period, accounting for about 70-75 percent of total highway
expenditures. The remaining 25-30 percent of highway expenditures was for
highway maintenance which is considered generally satisfactory, given limited
resources.
45.       The Federal Government's role in highway financing has been phasing
out since 1970. In 1977, the Federal Government's remaining contribution to
highway financing was only about 2 percent of the total expenditure. The main
source of highway financing is the revenue from taxes on gasoline and diesel
oil, license fees, and the revenues from taxes paid by foreign motorists on
entering Yugoslavia; all of these revenues are collected by the Federation.
In Yugoslavia the total revenue from these road-user charges has increased
from about US$350 million equivalent in 1975 to about US$825 million equivalent
in 1978. Coincidentally, this amount nearly equals the total expenditure,
including maintenance, on roads for the corresponding years. However, only a
proportion (about 34 percent) of these revenues has been earmarked for road
development and maintenance covering about 36 percent of expenditures. The
balance of the outlay has been made up from foreign and domestic loans (33
percent), contributions by the Republics, Provinces and Communes (18 percent),
the fund for less developed regions (6 percent--see para. 7), contributions by
the Federal Government, as already noted (2 percent), and contributions from
other sources (5 percent), including voluntary contributions of enterprises
and citizens.
Administration and Organization
46.       The main responsibility for highway administration is now centered
in the Republics and Provinces (para. 34), with the Federal Government playing
a role now confined to common policy and regulatory matters, including the
control of vehicle weights and dimensions, road safety, and the international
aspects of highway administration and road transport.
47.       At the Republican and Provincial levels, authority for administering
regional and inter-regional roads outside the boundaries of Communes (urban
and municipal areas), is vested in the Republican or Provincial Roads Orga-
nization. These organizations, evolving to include road-user groups, will
become Communities of Interest (COIs--see para. 34). This transition, actually
going on, is being made more rapidly in some regions than in others, and the
metamorphosis countrywide is therefore incomplete. These Roads Organizations,
becoming COIs, are and will be governed by "Boards" comprising relatively large
numbers of members of various interest groups such as transport companies,



- 15 -
industrial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and professional and road-
user organizations. The members elect an "Executive Board" which is respon-
sible not only for day-to-day administration, but also for the preparation of
proposals for highway development. These proposals are coordinated through
the planning system with the plans of other sectors and require approval of
Republican/Provincial Governments. Purely local roads are under the jurisdic-
tion of local communities which have special departments.
Performance Under Past Highway Projects
48.       Out of the ten highway projects for which the Bank has provided
financing, six have been successfully completed; all the road construction in
the remaining projects is well in hand. The Third Highway Project Performance
Audit (Report No. 1385 of December 10, 1976) stresses the need, however, to
ensure that tolls imposed do not reduce the optimal use of tolled facilities;
this point has been taken into account in all subsequent projects (para. 59).
Progress regarding the overseas training program under the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects has been slow owing largely to language difficulties (insuffi-
cient candidates proficient in English). The Audit Report (No. 2465 of April
1979) stressed the desirability of a more carefully developed training program
with adequate attention to local constraints. A modified training program
took place during October 1978 in Yugoslavia and in collaboration with
Economic Development Institute (EDI) staff. Simultaneous translation services
in English and Serbo-Croatian was provided. This program was well received,
and the CRO hopes to continue regularly with similar courses. Concerning
ongoing projects: (i) work for the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1143-YU of
July 18, 1975) is in progress on all project roads in Serbia, Slovenia, and
Montenegro; in the case of Slovenia, however, progress has been slow because
of difficulties arising from swampy terrain; (ii) all work under the Eighth
Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU of April 13, 1977), including roads in Serbia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo, is progressing satisfactorly;
(iii) all road contracts for the Ninth Highway Project (Loan 1535-YU of April
13, 1978) have been awarded; construction in Serbia is ahead of schedule and,
in Croatia and Slovenia, is progressing satisfactorily; and finally (iv) the
Tenth Highway Loan (1678-YU, of April 1979) became effective in August 1979;
three of the five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded road contracts
and all five have established Monitoring and Evaluation Units. In general,
performance under highway projects has been most satisfactory; problems, when
encountered, have related to land acquisition where unforeseen difficulties
have delayed construction, such as was the case under the Fourth Highway Proj-
ect (Loan 678-YU of May 28, 1970). Cost overruns (Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects) have resulted largely from exchange rate adjustments and higher than
anticipated inflation, but have not been excessive (between 8 and 12 percent).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The project, recapitulated in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this Report and described in detail in the report "Staff Appraisal
of an Eleventh Highway Project" No. 2752-a, dated March 6, 1980, was appraised by
a mission which visited Yugoslavia in August/September 1979. Negotiations
were held in Washington January 21-25, 1980 inclusive. The Yugoslav delegation
was led by Mr. Ante Zelic, President of the Federal Committee for Transporta-
tion and Communications, and included representatives of the four borrowing



- 16 -
Roads Organizations. Annex III summarizes the key events leading to Board
presentation, special Bank actions needed for project implementation and
the special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Project Development and Objectives
50.       The Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH), which was designed and built
shortly after World War II, is the country's principal transport artery. It
is, however, in serious need of improvement. At present, high traffic volumes
on this mainly two-lane road (12,000-15,000 vehicles per day), with more than
30 percent heavy trucks on some links, are causing serious bottlenecks.
Mounting congestion, losses to the economy from heavy accident tolls on life
and property, and increasing problems of maintenance under heavy traffic
impelled the Government to approach the Bank in early 1976 for assistance in
preparing a national program for the upgrading of this vital route. One of
the main purposes in soliciting Bank assistance was to expedite the creation
of an integrated master plan which could also provide a coherent basis for
seeking external financing from other multilateral, bilateral and private
international sources. At the Bank's instigation, the CRO commissioned a pre-
feasibility study of the whole route to determine such a program and an
action plan for its implementation. This study, which in itself was a feat of
inter-republican cooperation and coordination, confirmed the urgent attention
required for the reconstruction of the present pavement of a large number of
sections of the TYH to modern standards. It further ranked these sections by
priority derived from economic analyses.
51.       Though there are in the highway sector other pressing investment
needs, some of which are being addressed in the Tenth Highway Project (Loan
1678-YU of April 9, 1979) predicated on highway master plans prepared by the
Roads Organizations of the four less developed regions and Vojvodina, the
importance of the TYH to Yugoslavia as a whole is so great, the economic
dependency of each Republic and Province upon this main artery so fundamental,
that this proposed project deliberately focuses solely on TYH as did the Ninth
Highway Project (Loan 1535-YU of April 13, 1978).
52.       The Bank's role in developing the concept of the TYH as an inte-
grated project (about US$3 billion estimated total cost) and in providing the
needed lead in the financing of the Ninth Highway Project has helped the
Yugoslavs obtain cofinancing from other sources. The Government has enlisted
the support of the European Investment Bank (about US$30 million), the Bank of
Kuwait (US$16 million), the Banque Financiere, Paris (US$20 million), and
other investment agencies (about US$24 million) to help in the reconstruction
of several critical sections of the TYH during the late seventies. The
Yugoslav authorities have further confirmed that for the project, the con-
tinuing participation of the Bank will greatly assist receptivity of the
international capital market where additional cofinancing of not less than
US$107.7 million is being sought and secured.
Project Description
53.       The project comprises:
(a) the construction of the following sections totalling about 164 km of
the TYH identified by the TYH Prefeasibility Study as being those



- 17 -
links not yet improved where additional traffic capacity is most
urgently needed (Map IBRD 14675 R):
(i) in the Republic of Slovenia, a four-lane con-
trolled access highway on new alignment from Naklo
to Ljubljana (28.8 km);
(ii) in the Republic of Croatia, two additional traffic
lanes to, and the reconstruction of, the existing
two lanes to provide a four-lane controlled access
highway from Lipovljani to Okucani (35.9 km);
(iii) in the Republic of Serbia, two additional traffic
lanes to, and the reconstructior. of, the existing
two lanes to provide a four-lane controlled access
highway from: (a) the Vojvodinan Border to Surcin
(9.6 km); (b) Deligrad to Nis (37.1 km); and (c)
Batocina-Cuprija (35.1 km);
(iv) in the Province of Vojvodina, two additional traffic
lanes to, and the reconstruction of, the existing
two lanes to provide a four-lane controlled access
highway from Ruma to Popinci (17.3 km);
(b)  the procurement of equipment for road maintenance and load
monitoring, and related technical assistance; and
(c) a highway safety program comprised of (i) training, (ii)
technical assistance, and (iii) procurement of equipment.
54.       While it so happens that the six specific sections, singled out
for the project by the Prefeasibility Study solely on the basis of economic
criteria (see para. 53 above) are located physically in the more developed
parts of Yugoslavia, it is important to reiterate that the benefits of any
improvement of this important trunk route would permeate the entire economy,
and that the contribution the project would make in terms of improved planning
and coordination and of aiding Yugoslavia's access to international capital
markets are fully consonant with the overall Bank objectives in Yugoslavia as
described in para. 19 of this Report.
55.       Engineering, according to acceptable design standards, has been
carried out by competent Yugoslav engineering consulting firms (design insti-
tutes) and by institutes for geology, soil mechanics and civil engineering.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties (about
US$94.2 million equivalent or about 12 percent of total project costs), is
estimated at US$785.2 million equivalent. The total foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$232.7 million (about 30 percent) with Bank share of finan-
cing estimated at US$125.0 million, and cofinancing from other sources estimated
at about US$107.7 million. These figures are based on the assumption that, as
in the past, local contractors will win the awards of construction contracts
after international competitive bidding. A 10 percent physical contingency
has been included to allow for unforeseen increases in quantities of work in



- 18 -
road construction. Price escalation has been calculated reflecting Bank
methodology and using the following annual rates: (i) foreign costs in 1979
at 12 percent, in 1980 at 10.5 percent, in 1981 at 9 percent and in 1982 at 8
percent; and (ii) local costs from 1979-82 at 12 percent.
57.       The proposed loan of US$125 million corresponds to approximately 55
percent of the foreign exchange component and about 16 percent of the total
project costs for the construction of works in each Republic and Province with
the exception of the Batocina-Cuprija link in Serbia where the proposed loan
corresponds to approximately 45 percent of the foreign exchange component and
about 14 percent of the total Project costs. The cofinancing share of the
foreign exchange component to be provided by other sources is estimated at
US$107.7 million; local costs, to be borne by the Borrowers (the Roads Organi-
zations of the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, and of the Province
of Vojvodina), are US$552.5 million equivalent. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Bank would have the option of withholding further disburse-
ments for civil works from the loan account in the event that sufficient
additional funds are not obtained as required (Loan Agreement, Recital
(E) and Section 2.02). Conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
(Section 7.01 (a) and (b)) require that each of the four participating
Republics/ Province will have adopted regulations authorizing the Borrowers
to construct and finance their respective road sections, including the
provisions of guarantees to cover financing (including cofinancing arrange-
ments) and possible cost overruns.
Borrowers and Project Execution
58.       For the construction components of the proposed project the loan
would be made, as noted above, to the ROs of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and
Vojvodina, in the amounts of US$30.9 million, US$32.5 million; US$48.0 million,
and US$11.6 million, respectively. As under the Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and
would act as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of disbursement requests
to the Bank, and liaison agent between the Borrowers and the Bank on project-
related matters. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement stipulates
that all consents and approvals have been given by the concerned ROs and the
Federal Government, through its Federal Committee of Transport and Communica-
tions, for the CRO to undertake these obligations (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(c); Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). US$2 million of the loan would
also be made available to the ROs of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, and Vojvodina
for the procurement of road maintenance and load monitoring equipment (US$1
million), related technical assistance (US$0.1 million) and the highway safety
program (US$0.9 million). The CRO would be responsible for the procurement of
equipment as well as for the technical assistance (expected to include programs
related to the operation and maintenance of specialized equipment) and highway
safety program provided for under the loan. For the purposes of the US$2 mil-
lion of the loan for equipment, technical assistance and the highway safety
program, a condition of effectiveness requires that the Borrowers will have
entered into an agreement with the members of the CRO other than the Borrowers,
and the CRO will have taken a decision, providing for the execution by the CRO
of these components, and for the financing of the cost thereof (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(d)).
59.       The Borrowers may wish to operate their respective highway sections
as toll roads, as some Republics and Provinces have done for road sections



- 19 -
financed under the Third, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Highway Projects
(Loans 608-YU, 751-YU, 1143-YU, 1377-YU and 1535-YU, respectively). It was
agreed under these earlier loans that if tolls were to be imposed, they would
be set after a study to insure that the rates would result in an economic use
of the highway and alternative routes or means of transportation. During
negotiations, the Borrowers gave assurances to the effect that similar studies
will be carried out before the application of any tolls on the highway sections
financed under the proposed loan. In addition, the Borrowers agreed to
provide justification with the support of studies for construction of toll
booths at individual interchanges (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Procurement and Disbursements
60.        Construction contracts based on unit prices and contracts for the
purchase of equipment would be awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for Procurement." Construction
contracts would be of such a size as to encourage maximum participation of
foreign and local contractors, allowing them to bid for one or more sections
up to their prequalified capacity. Contractors would be prequalified for
the works. Prequalification procedures were initiated in January 1980, bids
invited in April and contracts are expected to be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidders in July 1980. Construction contracts will include satis-
factory price escalation clauses. The scope of consultant services to provide
technical assistance and training for the highway safety program (para. 53(c))
is being reviewed by the Borrowers and, during negotiations, assurances were
given to the effect that such scope as determined by the Borrowers will be
submitted by May 1, 1980 for Bank approval.
61.        The foreign exchange component, US$125 million of which would be
financed by the Bank, is based on the assumption that local contractors will
win the awards of construction contracts after international competitive
bidding. Disbursements by the Bank, representing approximately 55 percent of
the total foreign exchange costs, will be made against 16 percent of the total
project costs for the construction of works in each Republic and Province with
the exception of the Batocina-Cuprija link in Serbia where the proposed loan
represents approximately 45 percent of the foreign exchange and therefore
disbursements will be made against 14 percent of the total project costs (see
also para. 57 above). In addition, disbursement will be made against 100
percent of the foreign exchange costs for procurement of equipment, technical
assistance, and the highway safety program.
Project Risk and Environmental Impact
62.        The proposed project would be the twelfth in the highway subsector
to be executed in Yugoslavia, including a loan of US$21 million for earthquake
rehabilitation assistance approved in September 1979 to restore damaged roads
in Montenegro. As the other previous ten highway projects either have been
completed satisfactorily or are currently in progress without notable problems
(see para. 48), no special risks, including land acquisition problems, are
expected in the execution of the proposed project.
63.        Neither is the project expected to have an adverse environmental
impact; in fact, by reducing traffic congestion, a lessening of accidents and
noise and air pollution will also result. Further, sections constructed on
new alignment will mitigate negative environmental impact by diverting heavy
traffic in areas of ribbon development.



- 20 -
Justification
64.       The proposed project will relieve the mounting congestion of the
most heavily trafficked TYH sections, will reduce losses to the economy from
the heavy accident toll on life and property and provide direct benefit to all
road users in terms of reduced transport costs. Several industrial centers
which are directly served by the TYH and which produce the bulk of the country's
output of construction materials, fuels, chemical products, wood and wood mate-
rials will receive benefits in the form of reduced costs. The favorable impact
of the project will also be felt by the farming communities along the proposed
highway sections. The project will provide a stimulus both to international
trade and to the Yugoslav tourism industry. Because the Yugoslav transport
enterprises are highly competitive, it is expected that the benefits of the
project, which initially accrue to road users, will be passed on to the
economy in general.
65.       The quantitative economic analysis of the project road sections
takes account of savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger travel times
and road maintenance costs. Benefits due to increased comfort, convenience
and safety have not been considered.
66.       The expected cost savings in vehicle operating costs per vehicle km
in the opening year of the project roads range between 11-21 percent for pas-
senger cars, 21-25 percent for buses, and 12-28 percent for trucks and truck-
trailers. Savings in transport costs, excluding passenger time savings, account
for 40-50 percent of the total benefits for the road sections in Vojvodina,
Croatia and Serbia and about 25-30 percent in Slovenia. In Slovenia, a consid-
erable part of the existing two-lane highway between Kranj and Ljubljana passes
through highly congested ribbon development which greatly impedes the traffic
flow; hence passenger time savings become more pronounced for this road section.
67.       Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs, vehicle
operating costs, travel time costs, base-year traffic and traffic growth, the
proposed investments on the project road sections produce economic returns
(ERs) ranging from 22-36 percent including the benefits accruing to foreign
vehicles. In the extreme case where all benefits accruing to foreign vehicles
are excluded, the ERs range between 20-31 percent. The economic cost includes
all land acquisition, construction, maintenance, engineering and operating
costs and is adjusted for taxes and duties. If adjustments are also made using
shadow prices of labor, foreign exchange, intermediate and investment goods,
the ERs would not significantly differ from those given above, because prices
adjusted for taxes and duties are not significantly different from shadow
prices, and furthermore the adjustments affect both costs and benefit streams
in the same direction. All sections yield first-year benefit ratios ranging
from 10-22 percent on the proposed investment. The weighted average ER of all
the civil works components, which account for about 99 percent of total project
cost, is 24 percent or 22 percent depending on whether benefits accruing to
foreign vehicles are included or excluded. Sensitivity analyses were carried
out to test the effects of variation in construction costs and users' benefits
on the above estimates. Even under the unfavorable assumptions of 15 percent
higher construction costs combined with a 15 percent reduction in users' bene-
fits, the ER remains within the range of 16-23 percent (excluding all benefits
accruing to foreign vehicles), with an overall economic return of 17 percent,
still a highly acceptable level.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Republiska Skupnost
za Ceste S.R. Slovenije (Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic
of Slovenia); Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica za Ceste S.R. Hrvatske (Self-
Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Croatia);
Republicka Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica za Puteve Beograd (Republican Self-
Managing Community of Interest for Roads, Belgrade) and Pokrajinska Zajednica
za Puteve, SAP Vojvodina, Novisad (Provincial Community for Roads, SAP
Vojvodina, Novi Sad); the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
Provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Features of special interest are described in paragraphs 57, 58 and
59 and in Annex III to this Report. These features include:
(a)  a special condition of partial loan suspension set forth in Section
2.02 of the Loan Agreement specifying that the Bank would have the
option of withholding further disbursements for civil works from the
loan account in the event that sufficient additional funds are not
obtained as required from sources other than the Bank; and
(b)  special conditions of loan effectiveness set forth in Section 7.01
of the Loan Agreement specifying that:
(i)  the Republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia and the Province
of Vojvodina have each given a guarantee to cover the financing
of their respective sections of the project roads, including
cost overruns, and have adopted regulations authorizing the
construction of these sections;
(ii)  consents and approvals have been given for the CRO to undertake
the obligations referred to in the Loan Agreement; and
(iii)  the Borrowers have entered into an agreement with the members
of the CRO other than the Borrowers, and the CRO has taken a
decision, providing for the execution by the CRO of the equip-
ment/technical assistance/highway safety program components of
the project, and for the financing of the cost thereof.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 6, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL Ic.DICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (.AJIISTED AIERACS
LAND AREA (THOUSAN  SO.   .)YUGOSLAVIA                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMA,E) -
TOTAL            25i.8                                                     SAME        SAME     NEXT i!CHER
AGRICULTURAL     143.2                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  430.0        940.0    2390.0           2906.3     1942.6       3075.3
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      872.0      1459.0    2016.0           2033.2      1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR  .MILLbONS)     18.4        20.4       21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         34.8       38.4            56.3        51.2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          29.0
YEA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KLM.                       72.0        80.0       85.0            81.5        28.2        33.5
PER SQ. Kl. ACRICULTURAL LAND    124.0        139.0      152.0           138.8       100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          30.5        27.4       25.0            25.6        35.4        33.3
15-64 YRS.                          63.2        64.8       66.0            62.9        56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.3         7.8        9.0            10.2         5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH LATE (PZRCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0        0.9             0.9         1.7         2.1
URSAN                               3.6         3.2        3.0             2.6         3.0
CRUDE BERTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0        19.0       18.0            18.5        27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         9.0        9.0             9.2         9.1         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4          1.3       1.1              1.2        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        .
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         59.0         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           83.6        92.0      120.0           115.7       102.0        98.7
?ER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   115.0       124.0      136.0           134.2       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           91.0        92.0       97.5            95.4        80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE        27.0        29.0       35.4            45.4        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0         3.0        2.0             1.3         5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0         67.7      .69.0            70.0        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            88.0        55.5       35.0            31.5        45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POP.ULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              ..        69.4        73.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              ..        85.1        94.6
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              ..        43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              ..        70.1
RARBA                                ..           ..        ..              ..       88.3
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        33.2
POPL'LATION PER PHYS:C"A.r         1400.0/f    1010.0      790.0           661.6      1343.2       981.8
?OPULA.ION PER NURSING PERSON      1350.0/f     410.0      390.0           677.1       765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
-OTAL                             200.0       170.0      170.0           180.1       197.6       240.6
UR3AN                                ..        70.0       70.0              ..      260.2
RURAL                                *-      1610.0    1770.0               ..      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED            ..        17.0       17.0            15.3        17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE SF 'HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         3.8        3.8              ..        4.7
URBAN                               3.3         3.2        3.3              ..        4.4
RURAL                               4.4         4.3       4.1               *         5.1
AVERAGE NUtMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
DOTAL                               1.6         1.4         ..              *.         1.1
URBAN'                              1.7         1.3         ..              ..         1.2
RURAL                               1.5         1.5         ..              ..         1.2
ACCESS T0 ELECTRIC'TY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
-OTAL                              55.4        87.9        ..               ..       66.0
URBAN                              92.7        98.4         ..              ..       d5.1
RL'RAL                             36.1        80.1         ..



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (A0JUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
40ST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0        94.0      97.0            105.7      101.7        107.6
MALE                 100.0        98.0     100.0            107.1      110.0
FEMALE               91.0        89.0       94.0            104.5       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 34.0        46.0      55.0             65.9       51.2        39.7
KALE                 43.0         50.0      59.0             70.3       56.4
FEMALE               24.0         42.0      50.0             62.2       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)  72.0         72.0      75.0             20.4       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0         24.0      22.0             26.7       27.1
SECONDARY                          13.0        27.0      30.0               *        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0        83.0      85.0               ..       86.1
CONSLUPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         35.0      80.3            105.5       53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        85.0        163.0     210.0            233.7      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        88.0     161.0            148.0      102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        85.0      89.0               ..       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          4.0       3.8              6.4        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     8345.0       9175.O/&  9779.0g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  35.0         36.5      36.3             32.3       24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.7         49.8      42.0             25.8       28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                23.5         29.2      34.0             33.1       30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.4        45.0      45.9             37.6       33.8        40.1
HALE                                 60.3        58.3      59.4             57.0       51.3        55.7
FEMALE                               31.0        32.3      32.7             28.0       16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8       0.7              1.0        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEPOLDS   16.4/h       15.1/i
hIGHEST 20 PERCE?IT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/h      41.4/i    40.0/j           47.9       57.6.
LDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97W        6.67i     6.5/             5.0        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07?;      18.47?    18.4;k           15.4       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL...                                                   ......
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY I.COME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..      550.0
RURAL                               ..           ..    420.0             436.1      403.4
ESTIMATED POPuLATioN BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IlCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the nost populaced country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;   /d  upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  High Income (over 52500 per capita,
1976);  /f  1962;   /I  Including migrant workers working abroad;   /h  1963;   /i  1968;   rJ  1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



--24 -                                                             ANNEX I
DFNTO     OF SOCIAL INDOICATORS                                             Page    3   of   6
Note.:  Although the dt.t  are drae  from  s-roe  generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they  myp oot he interns-
Vil=1ly comparble becaus  of the lack of staodardieed deftitoo   sod .-no.Pt. used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, oonetheless,
usful to describe orders of  Magitude, lodi-ate treds, sod ohsruterize o-rtia major differeno esahtoeco co-trie..
The adJueted group averageo for eah lodiostor are population-eightsd geoaetric -aena, xocluindg the eotrme. Values of the indjoator sod the moot populated
oouotry io each group.  Ioe to lack of data, grop averages of all indicators for Capital Sorplue Oil toprters nod of indiontors of Ado.ess to Water and Esorta
Disposal, dousing, Ioone lletrlbutioo  -cd Pover ty for other oountry group. are populotionc-oighted geometrio mesos cithout  ousonof the eotreae values nd
the mot Ppoplated -cunty.  Oi.oe the coverage of cottre  amn   he indicators depends on avilability of datm  sod isnot unifor-. caution most be exerised
in relation avrage  of one iodcat-r to soother.  These averags ar    otly useful asaocian    feetd" _race   then c.m-arig the values of ooe
indicator at a time amn  the coutry sod reference groucs.
lAdl AREAo (thouand sqa.k.)                                                                 Accessto hinc1reta Dm0t05 Ipretof   cltio) - total, ua,sd rura  -
ToTotal   otlsraeoe_cmrso   adaeaadlle    aes.Nme   fpol    totl, -Iba, sod ralserve  by ert  disoala
dnilcultura1 -  Most recent ectiate o,f agr icutural area used temprarily                    per-eotagco of theirres.pective P poplations,  cEr"eta disposal mop icolude
or per-setip for cropo,Ipaturec -eriet sd hitchoo gardeme or to                           tbe ov1.ectio  an -disoa           ih or  ithoot treatect, of humnecrt
lio  faioc.                                                                               and caste-wter by oster-borne systems or the use of pit privies sod swoilar
GNIP PERO CAPITA (US$) - GIPF per capita estimates at correct sahe  prics                    Pno tllatiocr   osico-Populatioc divided by cumber of pr-ticing  physicians
cacltd hib amy   onesinmthod no World Bank Atlas (1976-id bass;                         qaiidfy.              eia   cola   nvrIylvl
ig6o, 1970,nd197   aa                                                                      Po-oatic  per Ilrsiog Persoc - Population divided hi, cuter of prvictioig   air
ENM01 COIIdTId.PEP CAPITA -A ... coa   cesoption of c-morci1 e-ery                             and femal  graduate curse, practical  -or.c, sod asatotnt curses.
(oa  adliot, petoem    aoa   a   n   yr-   wla   n   e-PoMotion. peor Hospital Red- total, unbar  an -rrs  - Populatioc  (total, urban,
thermal eleotrivity) to kilgran   of voal equivalent Per -apito; 196o,anrrl)dvedbthOresciecurofoptltdsvialeI
1970, sod 1976 data.                                                                         pohlio end privte gencral and  pecisliced hcotpital sod rohahilltatiocce-ters.
dospitals arc estahihebmete persmnectly staffed by at least ow physicisoh.
POPJLATION ADil VITAL iTATISTICS                                                               lEtablish-ets providing priocipally cus todial coe  -r  cot invloded. Rural
Total Popolatioc, Mid-tear"Tiioc  - Ao of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                            hospitals, howeer, include health ond medical  ecters cot permaently stafied
1977 data.                                                                                hi, a physician  (but bi, a medical  seistart, nurse,  ildoife,etc.) ohich offe
lirbar Population (pn..c..t of total)e- catty of orhsn to total populatio;                   ic-Patient aocodatioc  and p-oide a limited range of medica  facilitIes
differect definitione of urhan aret  nap affeot coparbility of data                     Adimleiono Per Hospital Bed - Total cumbco of admIssions to or discharges fr-c
satog  cocrie;i0  19701, sod 1975 data.                                                  hcopitalo divided by the cuter of beds.
Population to yea  P000 - Correct Ppoplatico proje-tions ace bon  c                   HiOUSING
191toa  ppltioc by age sod ceo sod tteir mortality and fortulity              Aveage Sloe of Acu.ehold (persoas per household) - total. urhan  sod rural -
ra~tes. feojeotioc paraet ers for mrtality ratec coprise of thre                        A hb...ehold cons.ists ofagopofidvdals who shar  living q-nterc  n
lees    uiongi fc expect_ncy at birttihicreasing with o..-try',:                   their main mlenl.  A boader or lodger smy or ae  cot he inc lodrd to the
Per onpItoice levL,  s1dodrf1artI1fc  -opecoan     stbhlising at                        houehold for statiativ-  purposes.
77.5pas         c partr-frfertilitty rate abc have three levels                       Average cobro er.... per roo   - total, urban, and rural - Averge  -bnec
assunOo  decline to fertility wocoIrding to Income level and pact                       ofperso-   pe~r roo   in allurban, sod rural ocoupOed  --veticos1 darlitogo,
family clariog perforano. hach coutryito teen asoigend on  of thes                      respectively.  D-lIag   roolude" non-praent structures sod ucscccpted parts.
inic   omebinations of motality ant fertilitty tre..ds for prv,eoticn                Access to Electricit   preto  dwel ing)   total, urba, ad rurnl -C
purposee.                                                                               vetio...l dwellings sith electricity in lIvigqanesa ercecolgo 
Stationatry Popolahtico  -, Ic a statltoory popolativo there Is cc groth                  total, urban, sod rural du-l1ioge respectively.
stav  thbe birth  at   o  qalt thy deoth rate, sod aI.- the age
strcucour  remins contant. ThO, :0 ahnbiered onli, lefter fertttittybrates          EDUCATION
decline to the rpaeot Ilvlo  uni tot rrproddcticc rote,tA whenE   1-.  Rti
esohb9geneato   ofoae   einn   i l  e-stiy.  mhe stticoary POP--                        Pioy-d1-  total, nle and fenie - r-ns  total, male soc fewol  enrol-
iticoci~tcscnaetntdo   he hcoof thy projected oharnoterioti-                             meat of all ages no tIc prinuvy levln :prcec..tagsof ~respycehive pri-sy
of the Population in tbe yonr 2000, sod the cute of decine cf fertility                    schocI-ag  populattots; cov...lly Oclue  cidre   gd    Ilprobut
rttorcplacms  irc.                                                                     dju-ted for differet lengths of priO.ary educatico; forI- ccvrten cith
fear stati .wary popultioc to cenched - The poor chro etatic..ary population                 uiroOeducation  rcrc11mnt mcy eoceod 100 p-eret clove coo  pupOIs
sice has heenreacbed.                                                                     are below or -oo  the official schocl ago.
Fpovl.tioc Di..sity                                                                         Sc dayshol  -  totl, mob  and female - Computed no nO-eo; orconoc
Per cc. ks. - Hid-yea  popu1ation per squar  kil-ater (itO  he-tare) of                      edctorqte   ct iract four ycars of approv'ed pri ,ry  0Iru- tOot
ctatl araprovides genoral voctional , or teacher training  iaot-atluo   for pup; Is
Per es. he,.agr-Icutural Land - Computed no  bhvv  for agrioultura1 land                     usually of 12 to 17 yeorn of age; correspoodeccnccurnc- are go...cally
only.                                                                                      ...oloded.
Popltoc e Otruct tuePercent) - Children (0-14 ysaro(,aecrh%in--ge                           VocatinlerolLmeo  (porent of  -ocoda,y) - Vocational  io-titutio-  i-olude
(15-64 year)  Ean  enticed (65  e-r  sod over) so Poretgsof mid-poar                        tehbncni, iodot       rl,c  other progrsm   hbich operste iodependently or s
population; i96ic, 19,70, and 1977 data.                                                     departanato  of ercondsry Ocstituttic..
population Grcwti date (cecet) - tota  - Aocu.. 1rc-th rute. of total aid-                   PunOl-teahrrai.            orle-Yo  and emoodarY - Total otuidwot  -'c1ldirl t
psa  pcpolati-c  for 1950-ho,  190-, sod 1970-77.                                            PrImary an  cecodary levelo  divided by Iuthro   f teachero  in thdecor--
Poculati.n Grouch Onto (Peron (;-:ub~an - AccuI grooh ratoc of urban                           apooding Ic-elo.
pooaion   for 1950-60, 19607   ad 1970-75.                                             idult literary rnto (pcrceno       Li-0tcratn udulto  shin  to read sod oritn) as
Crude citt Onte    c thou snd) - Acual htvchtetoc pr  boucad of mid-          aprttg ofoaldutpuoiomod17 yearn sod over.
year popoltion; 1 5O, 1970, and 0977 data.
Crude iDeats Rtat    cce thousanmd) - docou.1 doatho per th-ucnd of alt-your            CIONSURPTTON
popuItlatOon  1  0, 1970, sodr1977 data..                                               Poneaogr Corn (per thouand population) - Pno..noger carovon.prte mtor caro
lsoerocduoOinRat -horoe    mer of Stghor  -_ owuc colt bear                              sea ting le.. than eight persoos; ecide         abulanc-, beacon  and niOtoary
in hoc cr-na  reproductior prldif ohnpoie.or  preont ugo-                                  -nhiclea
npovific fertility rate-; unonlly fiv-you, --orgeo endtg in 1960,                       Rndic Pecter  (e  thoocand population) - 611 typco of receivesfe-                oi
0970, and 1975.                                                                           broadonistogealpbIc pe   husn                   f pouiticn;e"ociudwun-licencrd
family Planning - Ocoect-rs  =sou1 (thusads    A-edoul number of                              e-nivero  in countries ad to pear 5  heI rgOotratic  of radiccco           ioc
ncoeptcrs of birth-vctroi dotrsue  aupicen of satcoi..I family                            effoct; dats for recent y-er  su  hot be  -op-rble ot-  n-t countries
plalnnog program.                                                                          toibdlcoing.
panily PlacoOn  - Us,ers (prcen  c,f s,nr1ied ocoen) -iPercentage of married              TV  nc-tier   oner thousad Ppomoltioc) 1-.TV  eecr  for broadca,tOt..general
cosof child-baingae(5b  pso   b   n  bOrth-contect d-vivec                             public per th-uand  oploi Ic;n dule  uolioennrd TVheeoioers  I.-re
tc nil marOod momec in car   agegrop.                                                     sod in pear o  hec regiotrstion of TV octs  -u  in effect.
Oheenpaper Ciclto    pee rthous1.and pau2atice) - Shown the overage circulation
FOOP ADil BUTOITION                                                                            of _dail  goera   iotenttnopspr   otn   s     oidclpubivatico
m.dc  ofroo  Prductionore Copit. (1969-7>1100) - Cedec of per vapits                        devted peli=ol  to recording general no.It On co..sidered to ho "daily'
soulproutono   l            b oc  ioooiOa   rdcio    cldsoe   nf it tapp.er  at leant four timeuoet.
feed and is o    leodar year bsn   Cosedittes cover prOosy goodo                        Ciens Accuo Id-Ottcndance per Capito  oer Year  B-Ihc  Ic the comber of t~loeto
(0.g. -ugaran  itetead of sugar) uhicb ore edible and co toiccutreheats                  - cod during the Year, i-oludivgadnsioinu  to Orion-in. cinemn no             boilto
(e.g. coffee and ton ar  noGluded).  Aggregate prvduction of each  -cunfy                 uin
is based cc naticonl average,producertprior leighto"
Per capita.uoyo  clore   (enroot of reudireneonto (- Computed fro                     LABORPOC
enegy  quvalntof  otfood -upplic  available in coun.try per capita             Totsllbr  ov  (thouscods) -boiial   ciopros   aldo    r
pr dy.  Ac-tlblo oupplino comprion do....tio  productico, importo loan                 forces ad unomplpy  hu  rociuding bou..otoi-, 5tuderts, etc.Of,i,o
-nports, and chsogenins~tvck.  Ret  uppi          o  oeanimal feed, orodo,              Icnronconre    re nut vumparbte.
qunitien used in food provonciog, and l' sco  to diotributioc. Require-            I,mjpypcn") - Peust  labor fov n  porcootage of total labor fcrve.
mots once estimate,dhi, Phd, boed on pryoiclogicalIcerdo  for crsa-lyptc,j~c~    lbor foce                                         _ friog, foreotry, bunting and
stosioty sodh Oath cnidering  c-iron-otal heper-no-, body owights,                      fcshing  -c porcetage of total labor force.
ag  and son diotributioso of populacion, and alo           10 perrcet foe             I.d.ot,y (prcet) -lao   orei   Aing, co..otructics,  -scfacturing cod
"Ist,eat h-ueboid leve.                                                                 elecotricity, snor  so_    gsnopecocg  of total lnbcr force.
Prr osiaoupyof prote~in  'Srdn  prtday) - Protein vontect ofpe                          Parsicopatiut Onto(ees) - stu.tU   male, and fc nPorsti'ipotion  or
capito   e   upyo   odpr net          net c-pply of fcod to defined no                  activity raton or  computed no total, wale, and finale  tahoe force as Pee-
aboen. RequirenIt, for aII  countrion  ensablinbed by USiDA provide for                 cent ag-n  of total, cab  and foanle Popuintive of ai ages respectivly;
wiia    llnneofk   rd  of Octal protein per day sd 10 gSma ocf                          1960, 1970, sod 1975 data.  Three ar  I'O's pvtivipntitocrateorfnting
anion  and pulse prcteit, of shich 10' grmn  ohoold he anima  protein.                  age--e  at-ucur  of the pupointica, and long sloe trend.  A f-c estiantro
Thoe..standards are Lose  tban tbon of 75 genn  of atal1.  protniand                    arc fro o..I.tia  scurves.
23 gram   of animal Protein an mc averge for tb, -or1d, proposdbyFAG                  Eoomi PedenoyRai  -  Rtio of ppuiso   uorder 15 and  s and over no
in sethir    oldicdOuv                                                                   he lborforei  age g-pp of 05-6  years.
pe  caisProtein ouPPoIY rmnla   n   uo   Protoic oupply of food
derived fr.. animals and polsoc isgasp rdy                                          INCOME DISTRIHOTION
Child (mono 1-i) Mortaity Once (pr thocad  - oMu-1 deaths pee thousand                     Iooaaso   rvt  Inoe(ohi   ahad kind) - Onceived by richest
is ago grop 1- 4oyro, to cbildrev  in thindagr group  frmsdel-5 percent, richest PS percet, pocreot 20 percent, acid poorest uS percent
.pin IS ostries Iota derived froa life tabiec.                                             cf h..u.oholds.
H0A1TH                                                                                    97OVE'  TA5GL0T GRCSUPS
Lifs E icpotacy at Biith  hymen) - kA-rge number of pears of life                         Estimated Absout,      PvetyIsm   Lervl ("U$ psi cacibta) - uba  sa  rra 
reminig a  bith;096, 10,  ,  n   97   aa                                             Abaclte Poverty inom  loo   in that inco_ leve  beo             hich n Inia
infant Mortaity hone (coo thousand)-A- ..nul deatbo of infanta under 0e                      ntritional ly adequate diet plun escstia1 non-food requiremesto  is cot
pear of ags per th-uand lion birth0.                                                       affordable.
Access to Safe WONw  (nevot occuwin- ttni  urban, and ruval                                ostimted Rclative Poe-ti Inoelvl(0   e   npt)-uban and rural-
05,smbo  of pepl  (ttal, uban, ad ruva   cith rea....bl  access to               Rural relative povety income mci is so-third of aegepoer capita
cafe nator supplY (includes btreated nufaccuwntera or untreted but                         personl Iwoom  of thc country. Urban mcci In derlie  frmthe rural lre-t
uso-tamionted cater ouch a, that from protected boreholeo  springs',                       with adusmet foer higher cost of living in urban aress.
and saiay   el) so percentages of their vespectic- popultto...  in                      Sa_tiate   Po   taic  Beco Absouer-et   com    oe)(rec   - urban sod
an urban anapbi   onanc   tandpoes locted not more than                                   rura  - Perceot of populatio  (urban adYrural)1oh- ar   'bsolute P-c"
200 meters fr-  a  osmph  conidered As being cithic reasoable
cenofthatbs.Ihr rural areas r......able  -cme  sould imply
that the hoos-ife or members of thm  household do noct he- to spend a                                                                        -nmcad Occia  Data DIivisio
disprupcrtio...to  part of the day in fetching the fenilys. nater oneede                                                     -comic Acalysis and ProJectiono  Department
August 1979



-25                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                          ESTIMATE             PROJECTED
1970        1975         1976        1977 /1         1978                 1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /2
(US$ mil. at 1975
Prices)
Gross Domestic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9    30,931.9    32,138.2        34,612.8      36,897.2               48,787.7
Gains from Terms
of Trade           148.9          0          69.1           0           332.6                    0
Gross Domestic
Income         22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3        34,612.8      37.229.8               48,557.6
Imports           6,519.8     8,832.0      8,493.2       9,636.8      10,038.5               12,857.0
Exports--Volume -5,022.7    -6,426.0    -7,026.9        -6,712.8      -6,761.7              -10,952.4
Exports--Terms
of Trade
Adjusted        -5,171.6    -6,426.0    -7,095.1       -6,712.8      -7,094.3              -10,952.4
Resource Gap      1,348.2     2,406.0      1,398.1       2,924.0       2,944.2                1,904.6
Consumption      16,339.6    23,123.5    22,778.2       25,367.6      26,820.2               34,256,7
Investment        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2       12,169.2      13,353.8               16,405.6
National
Savings         6,993.2      9,211.4    10,992.2       10,817.0      12,520.3               15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings          6,329.2     7,808.4      9,429.1       9,245.2      10,409.6               14,501.0
GDP at Current
US$              13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6       50,154.9      58,480.6              123,803.8
SECTOR OUTPUT
(share of GDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture            .182         .152         .160          .156         .139                   .130
Industry               .410         .480         .472         .478          .487                   ,508
Services               .408         .368         .367         .366          .374                   ,362
PRICES
(1975 =100)
Exports Price
Index               52         100          104           117           128                    210
Imports Price
Index               50         100          103           117           122                    210
Terms of Trade
Index              104         100          101           100           104                    100
GDP Deflator         61          100         132           145           158                    254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate       12.50        17.39       18.19         18.30         18.64                   -
SELECTED INDICATORS            1976-78      1978-85
Import Elasticity                 .71          .88
Average National
Savings Rate                     .33         .32
Marginal National
Savings Rate                     .30         .27
Imports/GDP                       .27         .26
Investment/GDP /3                 .35         .34
Resource Gap/GDP                  .07         .06
/1 Preliminary.
/2 Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3 Including all statistical discrepancies. In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of which components of final demand exceed total resources. Since, in the
above table consumption has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is likely
to be an overestimate.
EMIDC
January 29, 1980



- 26 -                                 ~~~~~~~~~Annex I
- 26 -                                                P     oage 5of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ Million)
Actual                            Estimated   Projected
1974       1975        1976        1977       1978 1/       1979 p/    1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                   3 805       4,072       4,878       5,254       5,671        6,746       15,000
Imports (c.i.f.)                   7,520       7,697       7,367       9,634       9,988       13,550       21,000
Trade Balance                   -3,715      -3,625      -2,489      -4,380      -4,317       -6,804       -6,000
Non-Factor Services Receipts       1,891       2,354       2,430       2,600       2,984        2,780        8,000
Non-Factor Services Payments          795      1,135       1,381       1,641       2,259        2,185        6,000
Non-Factor Services
Net Balance                    1,096       1,219       1,049         959         725          595        2,000
Factor Services Receipts           1,714       1,746       1,974       2,220       3,030        3,515        4,500
Factor Services Payments             285         343         364         381         455          500        1,800
Factor Services Net Balance    1,429         1,403       1,610       1,839       2,575        3,015        2,700
Current Account Balance           -1,190      -1,003         165      -1,582      -1,017       -3,194       -1,300
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                 612       1,156       1,193       1,615       1,300        1,100        2,000
Disbursements                    1,426       2,171       2,096       2,665       2,700        2,800        7,000
Amortization                      -814      -1,015        -903      -1,050      -1,400       -1,700       -5,000
Exports Credit Extended Net         -130         -80        -100        -213        -150         -100         -300
Disbursements                     -215          -           -           -           -            -            -
Amortization                        85          -           -           -           -            -            -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(net) 3/                            485       1,076       1,093       1,402       1,150       1,000        1,700
Short Term (net) 4/                  270         127         -47         -19         182          875           -
Allocation of SD>rs                   -           -           -           -           -            29           -
Change in Reserves (-Increase)    438           -200      -1,211         199        -315        1,319         -400
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDR        243         -63      -1,065          38        -250           -            -
Bilateral Balances                 195        -137        -146         161         -65           -            -
1/ Preliminary
2/ Trade account and credits for workers' and emigrants' remittances for 1979 at current exchange rates;
other data at historic exchange rates.
3/ External borrowing reported in the balance of payments is not consistent with external debt data.
4/ Including capital transactions, n.e.i and errors and omissions.
EMENA CP1C
February 20, 1980



- 27 -
Annex I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                          Page 6 of 6 pagea
ACTUAL                                   ESTIMATED
1973          1974         1975           1976          1977           1978
Medium- & Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only) - US $ million
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (end of period)                4287.0       4925.9         5820.0        7145.1       8946.1        11014.1
Including Undisbursed          (end of period)             5548.7        7709.7         8807.9        9696 '      12157.8          n.a.
Public Debt Service            (during period)             -306.5       -394.2          -447.0        -305.2       -379.0         -401.4
Interest                                                  -98.4       -105.3         -127.9         -143.0       -157.3         -186.5
Other Medium- and Long-Term Debt Service(during pd.)   -746.4           -822.7          -989.7       -1134.8      -1233.3        -1482.5
Total Debt Service             (during period)            -1052.9      -1216.9         -1436.7       -1440.0      -1612.3        -1833.9
Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                                            23.9         21.4           22.4          19.7         20.2           21.8
Debt Service Ratio/l                                          18.4         16.9           17.3          15.7         15.9           16.3
Terms
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                4.9          5.0            4.9           4.2          4.0            5.1
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                  24.6         24.7           24.7          20.2         18.0           17.1
Dependency Ratios for Medium- & Long-Term Debt
Gross Disbursements/Imports                                   37.0         20.6           27.3          32.8         30.7           25.2
Net Transfers/Imports                                         13.7          4.5            8.7          13.3         14.0            9.9
Net Transfers/Gross Disbursements                             36.9         21.8           31.7          40.5         45.6           39.1
Exposure
World Bank Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements             3.0          5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5            5.8
World Bank & IDA Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  3.0               5.8            7.3           4.9          4.5            5.8
World Bank DOD/Total DOD                                       8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5            8.1
World Bank & IDA DOD/Total DOD                                 8.2          8.6            9.6           9.2          8.5            8.1
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3            6.3
World Bank & IDA Debt Service/Total Debt Service               3.6          3.6            3.9           4.7          5.3            6.3
/1   Including workers' remittances.
EMlDC
February 20, 1980



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-four Loans fully disbursed                                617.6
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0       9.1
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0     0.1
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries          31.0     1.1
916     1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline         59.4    20.1
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         0.4
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways             93.0    15.5
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0       8.3
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     3.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0     9.1
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                40.0      0.7
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline             48.4      2.3
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0     9.5
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage            45.0    27.7
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control             38.0    13.9
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit              50.0    10.4
1360     1977   Management Organization    Multipurpose
"Metohija"                  Water               54.0    49.6
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0    18.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje    Agriculture
Industries          24.0    21.0
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo      Roads                56.0      6.9
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission         80.0    55.5



- 29 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      69.5
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             100.0      51.7
1535     1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia         Roads                 80.0     42.0
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine        Hydro Power           73.0      61.5
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      29.3
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      15.0
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.1
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit               20.0       9.6
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0      75.0
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,             Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                    Agriculture and
Agro-Industries    55.0       54.9
1678     1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                  148.0    141.3
1756 /a  1979   Zagrebacka Banka             Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0      51.0
1759     1979   Road Organization of         Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                  ilitation-
Highways            21.0      21.0
1768 /a  1979   Port of Bar                  Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation - Port
of Bar              50.0      50.0
1769 /a  1979   Railway Organization         Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro               ilitation -
Railways            14.0      14.0
Total (less cancellation)                             2,401.5 /b 986.3
of which has been rapaid                               273.9
Total now outstanding                                 2,127.6
Amount sold                              9.2
of which:  Amount repaid               7.7              1.5
Total now held by Bank                                2,129.1
Total undisbursed                                                 986.3
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Does not include a US$86.0 million loan approved February 26, 1980
for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1979)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation       -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry         13.7    3.4      17.1
1972   Sava Semperit                          Tires            11.3    4.0       15.3
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                             Steel            50.0      -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing        4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                            Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                                147.4   25.1    172.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              81.0    2.6      83.6
Total commitments held by IFC                           66.4   22.5      88.9
Total Undisbursed                                        5.5    4.5      10.0



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. A small part
of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected to be
completed during 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been substantially above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Progress continues to be slow on
land consolidation and consultants have been engaged to assist in this task.
Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has been com-
pleted, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428 million
(up 90 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The resulting cost over-
run is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic of Germany,
local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appointment of
management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recommendations
have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the Borrowers and
implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to June 30, 1980, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of this
and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project has
been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I
is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was obtained.
Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing required for Phases
I and II. A delay of more than three years in project implementation has
occurred as a result of the increased project costs and revision of the proj-
ect. While two of the three sections have been completed and gas deliveries
have commenced, the third section is scheduled for completion by late 1980 or
mid-1981.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and almost fully disbursed. The Closing
Date of the loan, originally December 31, 1978, was postponed thrice to
June 30, 1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of
disbursements to equipment suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases and institutional developments, including improved
investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of
Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have resolved the major
problems. Undisbursed balance of $15.5 million is fully committed. Closing
date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31, 1980 to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements on contracts.



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the earth-
quakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to port
installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused further
delays and will require a reassessment of the financial situation.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. The loan has been fully committed. Disbursements are
behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and learning curve
problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participating banks with
withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time lag between
commitments and disbursements.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is
now in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
The Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to
traffic.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project has been substantially completed, about a year behind
original estimates and deliveries of oil have commenced. The revised cost
estimates of the project indicate a cost overrun of about 45 percent because
of required changes from original project components and increases in local
costs. The Borrower obtained supplementary financing from various sources



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
both foreign and local. Upon review of the award of a site preparation
contract in one case, and the procurement procedures regarding a telemetry
supervision control system in another case, the Bank concluded that the
procurement procedures were not in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and $112,000, respectively)
that would have otherwise been eligible for disbursement were cancelled from
the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays
in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the
Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced. Construction is also under-
way in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components which were delayed pend-
ing the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The
creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due
to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the
Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has
been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in
the Morava Region Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collection
is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed in early 1980. Con-
struction of the sewerage treatment plan has begun.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initial deliveries
of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally planned. Diffi-
culties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were the the major cause
of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and high pressure
loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Dis-
bursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates.



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder caiial are progressing
satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year behind schedule.
Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it is expected that by
December 1980 all major contracts would have been awarded.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries:  US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB
procurement for the winery and the cold stores is completed and construction
is underway.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty four sub-projects in the individual sector have been
approved committing 94 percent of loan proceeds. Progress in project implemen-
tation is slower than expected due primarily to lack of employment of an
agro-industries specialist by Borrower and slow bid evaluation processing.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated and reviewed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and all
funds are expected to be committed by end-1980. The monitoring and evaluation
system is being implemented and procurement for 12 agroindustrial subprojects
is nearly completed.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway:  US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well and approximately
US$48 million has been disbursed. The level of compensation payments is how-
ever increasing and substantial tariff increases will be necessary to revise
this trend.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power:  US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitment to date is $30.5 million of which about $10.0 million is
for special projects. The remainder will probably be committed for a further
single special project (lead smelter).
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
Progress has been satisfactory. Commitments to date are $39.4
million.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal,
main canal and irrigation network have been awarded. Thermal pipeline,
diversion tunnel and coffer dam construction have been completed.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval has been proceeding more slowly than expected at
appraisal. About 40 percent of loan has been committed. Tender documents
have been approved for two agroindustrial subprojects.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participating Republics/Provinces have completed prequalif-
ication of contractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units
and four have awarded contracts.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: March 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is March 31, 1980.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Highways: US$21
million Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan become effective on December 19, 1979, and withdrawal appli-
cations amounting to about $5.0 million have been dispatched to the Bank.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Port of Bar: US$50
million loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The terminal date for declaring effectiveness has been extended
to April 30, 1980 to permit promulgation of necessary legislation.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Railways: US$14
million loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The terminal date for declaring effectiveness has been extended
to April 30, 1980 to permit promulgation of necessary legislation.



- 38 -                         Annex III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: ELEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare
the Project:                               July 1975 1/ - September 1979
(b) Project Preparation
agencies:                                  Federal Committee for Transport
Council of Roads Organizations
Roads Organization of Slovenia
Roads Organization of Croatia
Roads Organization of Vojvodina
Roads Organization of Serbia
Design Institute of Zagreb
Design Institute of Belgrade
Faculty of Traffic Engineering,
University of Belgrade
(c) Preappraisal:
(i) First Government Presentation
of Project to the Bank:               April 1979
(ii) First Bank mission to consider
project:                              April 1979
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                August 20, 1979
(e)  Negotiations Completed:                     January 25, 1980
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                 July 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Review of bid evaluations and concurrence with contract awards and
supervision of the highway safety program.
1/   Some plans were prepared originally in 1975 and updated in 1979
for this project.



- 39 -                        Annex III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III: Special Conditions in the Loan Agreement
(a) As conditions of effectiveness:
(i) The Republics of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, arn' the Province
of Vojvodina will have adopted regulations authorizing the
construction and financing of their respective road sections,
including the provision of guarantees to cover financing, and
possible cost overruns (para. 57).
(ii) Consents and approvals have been given for the Council of Roads
Organizations (CRO) to undertake the obligations referred to
in the Loan Agreement, namely to act as fiscal agent for the
project, coordinator of disbursement requests to the Bank, and
liaison agent between the Borrowers and the Bank on project-
related matters, and to be responsible for the procurement of
equipment, related technical assistance and the highway safety
program as provided for under the loan (para. 58).
(iii) The Borrowers will have entered into an agreement with the
members of the CRO other than the Borrowers, and the CRO will
have taken a decision, providing for the execution by the CRO
of the equipment/technical assistance/highway safety program
components of the project, and for the financing of the cost
thereof (para. 58).
(b) As special conditions:
(i) Cofinancing required from foreign sources would be obtained
in a timely manner, satisfactory to the Bank otherwise the
Bank would have the option of withholding further disbursements
for civil works from the loan account (para. 57).
(ii) Any tolls on any of the project road sections would be set at
rates that would ensure an economic use of such roads and
alternative routes or means of transportation. In addition,
the construction of toll booths on individual interchanges will
be justified as to financial viability (para. 59).






A  T'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJ A~~~~~~~/ycoaA  rOA 
Wa'k ru4O-               W                                                                        ra                         OMAN~ci(
YU GO S LA VIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   0M: NI
HIGHWAY  SYSTEM                                                                                               snore.  OV SAO
Trans Vyoslanro H girwor Corn dos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
European rhghwaae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Other Class T Higirwajis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Projects F eanced he hese.htics, F B end others ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~,,
Seventh H ghway Project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E,C ~ ~ ~      ~        ~ ~
4           spsa  jorshihsyPrjc                                                  I
Roilcays                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p.
YUGdnirOf eShLendAVtnmosPosAe
HIGHWrrairrBarArYoSYSE
T-1  H gh-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eosrrheeaertt
E-Apor- 4,eegh..SrerorrO
OaPats.                                                       5 Csl-      5 oI Higth-,,alra rresean
RisersP,lw                                                            KILeCI-dO                               rsro.orrttioarnorEno
S--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h H H.. P.10't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/st rk rs0 ttsr r
h,hig-, Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oerse e Mo rsa 
T~~~~~~~~th H,gZ                                                                                   IALB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oreaeANatsearrA 
Fe                                          Fe'lo Prars-rwrE..-remraHas                                                              20 -y PVprscs507



