LOAN NUMBER 1819 YU
Loan Agreement
(Eleventh Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Croatia)
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest
for Roads Belgrade)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVISAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
Dated                           ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1819 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      f1V0I2>                , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, party of
the first part (such party of the first part hereinafter called
the Bank) and REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the Socialist Republic of
Slovenia) (hereinafter sometimes called the Slovenian Borrower),
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE (Self-
Managing Community of Interest for Roads of the Socialist Republic
of Croatia) (hereinafter sometimes called the Croatian Borrower),
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads Bel-
grade) (hereinafter sometimes called the Serbian Borrower),
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SAP VOJVODINA, NOVISAD (Provin-
cial Community for Roads, SAP Vojvodina, Novi Sad) (hereinafter
sometimes called the Vojvodninan Borrower), parties of the second
part (any such parties of the second part hereinafter sometimes
individually called a Borrower and all such parties of the
second part hereinafter sometimes collectively called the
Borrowers).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrowers have agreed to carry out Part I
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and
have agreed or will take all such actions as are necessary to
designate the CRO (as this term is defined hereinafter) as the
representative of each of the Borrowers to carry out Parts II
and III of the Project;
(B) The Socialist Republic of Slovenia (hereinafter called
Slovenia), the Socialist Republic of Croatia (hereinafter called
Croatia), the Socialist Republic of Serbia (hereinafter    called
Serbia) and the Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina
(hereinafter called Vojvodina) have each adopted or will each
adopt or cause to be adopted all regulations necessary to autho-
rize the construction of the respective road sections included
under Part I of the Project, which regulations provide or will
provide inter alia financial resources required for the complete
execution of Parts I, II and III of the Project to be made avail-
able respectively by: (i) Slovenia to the Slovenian Borrower, for
the purposes of Part I (A) of the Project; (ii) Croatia to the
Croatian Borrower, for the purposes of Part I (B) of the Project;
(iii) Serbia to the Serbian Borrower, for the purposes of Part I
(C) of the Project; and (iv) Vojvodina to the Vojvodinan Borrower,
for the purposes of Part I (D) of the Project;


﻿-2-
(C) Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Vojvodina have each
agreed to make available or cause to be made available, on
appropriate terms, any additional funds required for the carry-
ing out of the Project over and above the funds to be made
available in accordance with the: regulations referred to in
Recital (B) and the Loan provided hereunder;
(D) The Borrowers have requested the Bank to assist each
of them in the financing of its Individual Part of the Project
(as this term is defined hereinafter), by making the Loan as
provided hereinafter;
(E) The Borrowers have represented to the Bank that they
intend to request through a consortium of Yugoslav banks addi-
tional loans from other lenders outside Yugoslavia in such an
aggregate amount as they shall require for the financing of
Part I of the Project, on terms and conditions that will enable
the Borrowers to carry out the Project and their operations in
accordance with sound financial practices, and Slovenia, Croatia
Serbia and Vojvodina will assist the Borrowers to obtain such
loans (hereinafter called the Foreign Lenders' Loans);
(F) The Borrowers have agreed to designate the CRO (as this
term is defined hereinafter) as the representative of each of the
Borrowers for certain other purposes under this Agreement, as is
hereinafter set forth;
(G) The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into this Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrowers in respect of such Loan;
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrowers for such purposes in
the amount and on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set
forth or referred to;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿-3-
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Individual Part of the Project", used with respect to
any of the Borrowers, means that portion of Part I of the Project
which is identified with the Republic or Province in which such
Borrower is established;
(b) "Individual Portion of the Loan", used with respect
to any of the Borrowers, means such portion of the Loan as shall
have been allocated to such Borrower for the purpose of assisting
in the financing of such Borrower's Individual Part of the Proj-
ect, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(c) the term "Republic" means any of the Socialist
Republics of (i) Bosnia and Herzegovina, (ii) Croatia, (iii)
Macedonia, (iv) Montenegro, (v) Serbia and (vi) Slovenia;
(d) the term "Province" means either of the Socialist
Autonomous Provinces of (i) Kosovo and (ii) Vojvodina;
(e) the term "CRO" means the Savjet Republi6kih i
Pokrajinskih Organizacija za Puteve (Council of Republic and
Provincial Road Organizations), a voluntary association estab-
lished by agreement of the Road Funds and Road Councils of the
respective Republics and Provinces, dated June 17, 1971, includ-
ing any successor thereto and chaired by one of the member
organizations appointed for one or more years pursuant to
Article 4 of said agreement;
(f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and


﻿-4-
(g)  "Borrowers' Statutes" means: (i) the Temporary Statute
of the Slovenian Borrower, dated November 6, 1972, as amended to
the date of this Agreement; (ii) the Statutes of the Croatian
Borrower, dated January 9, 1976, as amended to the date of this
Agreement; (iii) the Statutes of the Serbian Borrower, dated
July 20, 1978, and (iv) the Statutes of the Vojvodinan Borrower,
dated May 7, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowers, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrowers, for ex-
penditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; provided, however, that the Bank may suspend in whole or
in part the right of the Borrowers to make further withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of sub-Categories 1 (a), 1 (b),
1 (c), 1 (d) and 1 (e) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, if the Borrowers shall not have in
due course secured sufficient additional funds through Foreign
Lenders' Loans, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
for the carrying out of their respective Individual Parts of the
Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrowers and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrowers shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrowers shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Of the amounts .n the currencies specified
in Article IV of the General Conditions to be paid to the Bank by
the Borrowers on each payment date pursuant to the foregoing
Sections 2.05 through 2.08 of this Agreement, each of the Bor-
rowers shall only be liable for, and shall pay a share equivalent
to:
(i) the commitment charge accrued on the principal
amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan not
withdrawn or cancelled and the additional commit-
ment charge accrued on special commitments entered
into by the Bank at the request of such Borrower;
(ii) the interest accrued on the principal amount of
its Individual Portion of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding; and
(iii) a portion of the amount of each maturity of the
Loan proportionate to the principal amount of its
Individual Portion of the Loan, provided that such
portion shall not have been repaid by such
Borrower in advance of maturity as provided in
paragraph (b) below.
(b)   Each of the Borrowers shall have the right, upon pay-
ment of all accrued interest and payment of the premium specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and upon not less than 45 days'
notice to the Bank, to repay in advance of maturity:


﻿-6-
(i) all of the principal amount of its Individual
Portion of the Loan at the time withdrawn and
outstanding; or
(ii) all of the principal amount of the Loan to be
repaid by such Borrower on one or more maturity
dates in accordance with paragraph (a) above,
provided that on the date of such prepayment there
shall not be outstanding any portion of the Loan
to be repaid by such Borrower and maturing after
such maturity dates.
(c) It is the policy of the Bank to encourage the repayment
prior to maturity of portions of its loans retained by the Bank
in its own account. Accordingly the Bank will sympathetically
consider, in the light of all circumstances then existing, any
request by a Borrower that the Bank waive the payment of any
premium payable under paragraph (b) of this Section on prepayment
of any portion of the Loan which the Bank has not sold or agreed
to sell.
(d) Each of the Borrowers may by notice to the Bank cancel
any amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan which such
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such
notice, except that none of the Borrowers may so cancel any amount
of its Individual Portion of the Loan in respect of which the Bank
shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. Each of the Borrowers shall designate or cause
the CRO to be designated as its representative for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions set forth or referred to in Sections 2.02, 2.05, 2.06,
2.07, 2.08 and 2.09 of this Agreement, and Articles III, IV and V
and Section 6.05 of the General Conditions, and for such purpose,
the CRO and the Borrowers shall take such actions as are set forth
in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.11. All obligations of the Borrowers under the Loan
Agreement, unless such obligations shall have been expressly
undertaken by each of the Borrowers separately, shall be joint and
several and the obligation of any of them to comply with any
provision of the Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior notice
to, demand upon or action against any other of them. No extension
of time or forbearance given to any of the Borrowers in respect of


﻿-7-
the performance of any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement
and no failure of the Bank to give any notice or to make any
demand or protest whatsoever to any of the Borrowers, or strictly
to assert any right or pursue any remedy against any of them in
respect of the Loan Agreement, and no failure by any of the
Borrowers to comply with any requirement of any law, regulation
or order shall in any way affect or impair any obligation of any
other Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Each of the Borrowers shall carry out its
Individual Part of the Project (a) with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, administra-
tive, financial and highway transport practices, and (b) in co-
operation with the other Borrowers and the CRO in such practical
manner as shall ensure the most efficient execution of the Project
as a whole, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In the event that the CRO shall employ consul-
tants in order to assist in the carrying out of Parts II and III
of the Project on behalf of the Borrowers, such consultants shall
have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment satisfactory to the Bank and the CRO.
Section 3.03. Each of the Borrowers shall:
(a) construct the roads included in its Individual Part of
the Project in accordance with such design standards as are set
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed upon
from time to time between the Bank and such Borrower;
(b) furnish to the Bank (through the CRO), for its approval,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction schedules for its Individual
Part of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request; and
(c) acquire, promptly as needed, all such land and rights in
respect of land required for the carrying out of its Individual


﻿-8-
Part of the Project and furnish to the Bank (through the CRO),
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for the
purpose of carrying out its Individual Part of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each
of the Borrowers shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of its Individual Portion of the Loan to be used
exclusively for its Individual Part of the Project and (to the
extent of the allocation therefor) for Parts II and III of the
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall in respect of
its Individual Part of the Project: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the operation thereof, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) (acting through the CRO) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasor bly
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(b) The Borrowers shall cause the CRO to maintain records
adequate for the purposes of Sections 2.10 and 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between each of the
Borrowers and the Bank, each of the Borrowers shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of its Individual Part of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
each such Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.


﻿-9-
Section 3.06. Each of the Borrowers shall take or cause to
be taken all such actions as are necessary in order to ensure
that, if any tolls are imposed on the use of any highway included
under its Individual Part of the Project: (a) such tolls shall be
set at such rates as shall ensure an economic use of such highway
and alternative routes or means of transportation and after taking
into account as appropriate the results of the road-user charges
study carried out ur4er the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377
YU); and (b) toll-booth facilities shall be established on inter-
changes only if they are justified with the support of studies
showing that ramp traffic will be sufficient to make the construc-
tion and operation thereof financially viable.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrowers
Section 4.01. Each of the Borrowers shall exercise its powers
and functions with respect to all public roads in its respective
Republic (except roads falling within the jurisdiction of munici-
palities), so as to ensure: (a) that such roads will be adequately
maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices, and that the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required therefor will be provided, promptly as
needed; (b) that the systematic collection and recording of such
technical, economic and financial data will be continued as shall
be reasonable for the proper planning or maintenance, improvements
and extensions of such roads; and (c) that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles using such roads shall not exceed such
limits as-are appropriate to the design standards for such roads.
Section 4.02. Each of the Borrowers shall at all times carry
out its operations and manage its affairs in accordance with sound
engineering, business, financial and administrative principles and
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 4.03. Each of the Borrowers shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provision satis-
factory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practices.
Section 4.04. Each of the Borrowers shall operate and main-
tain its plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time
make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and administrative practices.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.05. Each of the Borrowers shall at all times main-
tain the right to carry on its operations, and take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, none
of the Borrowers shall sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise
dispose of any of its rights, property or assets except in the
ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. Each of the Borrowers shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its highway pperations and its
financial resources and expenditures related to such operations.
Section 5.02. (a) Each of the Borrowers represents that at
the date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as
security for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to
the Bank or stated in writing.
(b) Each of the Borrowers undertakes that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if such Borrower shall create any
lien on any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no
cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, such
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, how-
ever, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia or Vojvodina shall have failed
to make available, as and when needed, the financial resources
provided under the respective regulations referred to in Recital
(B) of this Agreement;
(b) Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia or Vojvodina shall have failed
to carry out any of its undertakings or agreements referred to in
Recital (C) of this Agreement;
(c) any provision (i) of any of the regulations referred to
in Recital (B) of this Agreement, or (ii) of any of the agreements
referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement, or (iii) of such
Articles of the Statutes of any of the Borrowers as affect in any
way whatever such Borrower's ability to carry out its Individual
Part of the Project or such Borrower's existence as an independent
enterprise, or (iv) of such Articles of the CRO's Statutes as
affect in any way whatever the CROWs ability to carry out any of
its obligations in the Loan Agreement contained, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated without the prior
approval of the Bank; and
(d) any part of the principal amount of any loan to any
of the Borrowers having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 12 -
(a) Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Vojvodina have each
adopted regulations in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, as referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement, and such
regulations are in full force and effect;
(b) Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Vojvodina have each given
guarantees, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, in
respect of the provision of all necessary funds required for the
carrying out of the relevant Individual Part of the Project,
including cost-overruns, as referred to in Recital (C) of this
Agreement, and such guarantees are in full force and effect;
(c) all necessary consents and approvals have been given
for the CRO to undertake the obligations referred to herein; and
(d) the Borrowers have entered into an agreement with the
members of the CRO other than the Borrowers, and the CRO has taken
a decision, providing for the execution by the CRO in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement of Parts II and III of the
Project, and for the financing of the cost thereof.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the regulations referred to in paragraph (a)
of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly adopted and
are in full force and effect;
(b) that the guarantees referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly given
and are in full force and effect;
(c) that the consents and approvals referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly
given and are in full force and effect; and
(d) that the execution and delivery of the agreement
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement
hereof have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
Section 7.03. The date - TQ, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrowers:
Savjet Republifkih i Pokrajinskih
Organizacija za Puteve
Administracija
Titova 64
61000 Ljubljana
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 14 -
REPUBLISKA SKUPNOST ZA CESTE
S.R. SLOVENIJE
(Republic Community for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Slovenia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA
ZA CESTE S.R. HRVATSKE
(Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Roads of the Socialist Republic of
Croatia)
REPUBLICKA SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA
ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE BEOGRAD
(Republican Self-Managing Community
of Interest for Roads Belgrade)
POKRAJINSKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE,
SAP VOJVODINA, NOVISAD
(Provincial Community for Roads, SAP
Vojvodina, Novi Sad)
/I XM{ik"
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) for Part I (A)          30,900,000        16%
of the Project
(b) for Part I (B)          32,500,000        16%
of the Project
(c) for Part I (C)          28,000,000        16%
(i) and (ii)
of the Project
(d) for Part I (C)          20,000,000        14%
(iii) of the
Project
(e) for Part I (D)          11,600,000        16%
of the Project
(2) Equipment and tech-           1,100,000        100% of foreign
nical assistance                              expenditures
under Part II of
the Project
(3) Equipment, techni-              900,000        100% of foreign
cal assistance and                            expenditures
training under Part
III of the Project
TOTAL       125,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of
the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower concerned, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category or sub-Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the estimate of disbursements under Category (2) or (3)
shall change, the amount of the Loan then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category (2) or (3) may be reallocated,
at the request of the Borrowers, to such Category (3) or (2) or to
any sub-Category under Category (1), subject to the approval of
the Bank.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 17 -
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower con-
cerned, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Highway Construction or Reconstruction
The construction or reconstruction in the Republics of
Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia and in the Province of Vojvodina of
the following highway sections of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway,
each portion to be carried out by the respective Borrower:
(A)  Slovenia Portion:
A four-lane limited access highway between Naklo and
Ljubljana (about 28.8 km).
(B) Croatia Portion:
Two additional traffic lanes to, and the reconstruction
of, the existing two-lane limited access highway between
Lipovljani and Okucani (about 35.9 km).
(C) Serbia Portion:
(i) Two additional traffic lanes to, and the recon-
struction of, the existing two-lane limited access
highway between the Vojvodina border and Surcin
(about 9.6 km);
(ii) Two additional traffic lanes to, and the recon-
struction of, the existing two-lane limited access
highway between Deligrad and Nis (about 37.1 km);
and
(iii) Two additional traffic lanes to, and the recon-
struction of, the existing two-lane limited access
highway between Batocina and Cuprija (about 35.1
km).
(D) Vojvodina Portion:
Two additional traffic lanes to, and the reconstruction
of, the existing two-lane limited access highway between
Ruma and Popinci (about 17.3 km).


﻿- 19 -
Part II:
The procurement of equipment for the maintenance of the
Trans-Yugoslav Highway and, in particular, the procurement of
equipment for, and installation of, weigh scales to monitor the
loadings of vehicles using said Highway and the arterial network
serving said Highway, and the provision of technical assistance,
to the extent required for the use of said equipment and for
studies regarding tolls and toll-booth facilities.
Part III:
A highway safety program concerning the Trans-Yugoslav
Highway, the details of which to be determined in agreement
between the Bank, the Borrowers and the CRO.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982
except for Part I (C) of the Project which is expected to be com-
pleted by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1994                  5,210,000
On April 1, 1995                                5,170,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 2.09 (b)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works sh all be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under the Project, in addition
to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Bor-
rower concerned shall prepare and forward to the Bank (through
the CRO) as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
oppor-%anity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower con-
cerned shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Conditions of bid invitation shall not require that foreign
firms enter into compulsory joint ventures with Yugoslav firms.
4.   (a) All bidders for civil works included under the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Bid invitations for all contracts shall be advertised
also in well-known technical journals or trade publications
outside Yugoslavia.
(c) Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be required
to register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids.
In the event that registration shall be necessary after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded
a contract, the Borrowers shall facilitate the registration.


﻿- 23 -
(d) A time period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for
submission of bids.
(e) Bid bonds or guarantees in the amount of at least
1.5% of the bid value shall be required with the submission of
bids.
(f) Each civil works contract shall be on a unit-price
basis and shall include:
(i) a price adjustment clause as described in paragraph
2.12 of Part A of the Guidelines;
(ii)   a provision for retention money in the amount
of at least 5% of the contractor's monthly state-
ments;
(iii) an obligation to provide a performance bond in
the amount of 100% of the contract value or alter-
natively, at the contractor's option, a bank
guarantee in the amount of at least 10% of the
contract value; and
(iv) a provision allowing non-Yugoslav contractors and
suppliers to convert into foreign exchange and to
repatriate a reasonable portion of contract pay-
ments, and to import equipment (free of duties
provided that such equipment is repatriated not
later than the date of completion of the Project)
and specialized manpower as required to carry out
their services.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 24 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
YugosIVia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the concerned Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Yugoslavia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(b) Grou-p B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or.group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid prica of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿- 25 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Items of equipment for Part II of the Project consisting
of traffic counters, traffic classification counters and weigh
scales, due to compatibility with existing equipment, may be
purchased from the original suppliers, provided, however, that
items so purchased shall not exceed an aggregate amount of
$700,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Each concerned Borrower, through
the CRO, shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank
in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by said
Borrower through the CRO to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the decision of said Borrower, and said
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and for equip-
ment:
(a) Before bids are invited, each concerned Borrower,
through the CRO, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, each
concerned Borrower, through the CRO, shall, before a final deci-
sion on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report


﻿- 26 -
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
said Borrower through the CRO and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
through the CRO to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contracts (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, each concerned Borrower,
through the CRO, shall inform the Bank of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons therefor.
The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform said
Borrower through the CRO and state the reasons for its dc armina-
tion.
E.   Cooperation between the Borrowers and the CRO
In taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions set forth or referred to in the Guidelines or in
this Schedule, the Borrowers shall proceed in cooperation with
each other and with the CRO as set forth in Schedule 8 to the
Loan Agreement No. 1535 for the Ninth Highway Project.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   Paragraph 4 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"4. The term 'Loan' means the loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement and the term 'Individual Portion of
the Loan' means the portion of the Loan allocated a
particular Borrower in accordance with the Loan Agree-
ment."
2.   Paragraph 6 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"6. The term 'Borrower' means all the parties to
the Loan Agreement to which the Loan is made, except
that in Section 4.05, Section 5.02, Section 5.03,
Section 5.07, paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), (h) and (i)
of Section 6.02, paragraphs (c), (e), (f) and (g) of
Section 7.01 and Section 10.02, such term means one or
more such parties."
3.   Section 3.05 is deleted.
4.   Paragraph (b) of Section 4.02 is amended by deleting the
words "Section 3.05" and by substituting the words "paragraph (b)
of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement".
5.   Section 6.01 is deleted.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6
Highway Design Standards
The Borrowers concerned shall construct the highway sections
included in Part I of the Project in accordance with the design
standards set out below:
Deli-
grad-
Nis
Vojvo-   Bato-
Naklo- Lipovl-    dina    cina-
Ljubl-   jani-   Border- Cup-    Ruma-
Unit     jana    Okucani  Surcin   rija   Popinci
Type of Ter-     -       Flat     Flat     Flat    Flat     Flat
rain
Design Speed   km/h      120       120      120     120      120
Maximum
Gradient       %         2.5       2        2       2        2
Carriageway
Width          m      2x7.50  2x7.50   2x7.50  2x7.50   2x7.50
Emergency
Lane Width     m      2x2.50  2x2.50   2x2.50  2x2.50   2x2.50
Shoulder
Width          m      2x1.30  2xl.50   2x1.00  2x1.00   2x1.00
Minimum
Radius
Horizontal
Curves         m     1,000     2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000
Minimum
Radius
Vertical
Curves
Summits      m    20,000    20,000   20,000  20,000   20,000
Sags         m    12,000    12,000   12,000  12,000   12,000
Legal Maximum
Single Axle
Load          ton       10        10       10      10       10
Type of
Wearing     -    Asphal-   Asphal-   Asphal-   Asphal- Asphal-
Surface          tic Con-  tic Con-  tic Con-  tic Con- tic Con-
crete     crete     crete     crete    crete
Structures designed in compliance with Yugoslav (DIN 1072) Standards.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 7
Actions to be taken by each of the Borrowers and by the
CRO in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a) Upon any such Borrower's respective written request, the
CRO shall promptly take the following action with respect to the
Borrower's Individual Portion of the Loan:
(i) make applications for withdrawal from the Loan
Account and pay to the Borrower, or on its order
the amounts so withdrawn;
(ii) request the Bank to enter into any special commit-
ments in accordance with the provisions of Section
5.02 of the General Conditions;
(iii) give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance
of maturity in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agree-
ment;
(iv) request the Bank to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal, interest and
other charges, as provided by Section 4.05 of the
General Conditions;
(v) give the Bank any notice of cancellation 'in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of
Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement; and
(vi) in general, take any action required or permitted
to be taken by the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the General Conditions and the Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 2.10 of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) Any request submitted to the CRO in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) above shall be in such form, and
include such supporting documentation as the CRO shall determine
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to the Bank by any of the Borrowers
shall be made through the CRO, provided that for such purpose:


﻿- 30 -
(a) the CRO shall open an account with Udrulena Beogradska
Banka, Beograd to be used exclusively for making such payments
(hereinafter called the Special Account), the necessary details
about such Special Account to be communicated to all Borrowers;
(b) each of the Borrowers shall make any such payment into
the Special Account in such currency or currencies, and not later
than five working days before such date, as such payments have to
be made to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement;
(c) not later than 15 working days before any payment is to
be made into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (b) above, the CRO shall advise the respective
Borrowers of the currency or currencies of payment and of the
payment due date; and
(d) using the funds paid by the Borrower into the Special
Account, the CRO shall promptly make to the Bank the payments to
be made by such Borrower.
3.   The CRO shall: (i) assign qualified and experienced staff in
sufficient numbers for the carrying out of the actions to be
carried out by it on behalf of the Borrowers in accordance with
this Schedule 7; (ii) periodically determine its costs and expen-
ditures incurred in carrying out such actions; and (iii) charge
each of the Borrowers with such costs and expenditures in the same
approximate proportion as its Individual Portion of the Loan bears
to the total amount of the Loan. Each of the Borrowers shall
promptly reimburse the CRO for its share of such costs and expen-
ditures as so determined by the CRO.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  A   4   dayof421 uL ,1980
FOR SECRETARY


