Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20259
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(25580)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.3 MILLION (US$46.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE SINDH SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.0192
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 51.89
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOS                  Government of Sindh
EXPACO               Executive Planning and Action Coordination Organization
IDA                  International Development Association
KDA           =      Karachi Development Authority
KMC           =      Karachi Metropolitan Corporation
KTC           =      Karachi Transport Corporation
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Jonathan Kamkwalala
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Toshiaki. Keicho



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Pakistan
Sindh Special Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Informnation                                                            13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  36
This document has a resticted distibution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contets may not offierwie be disclosed withoul
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0 10452                                      Pro ect Name: SINDH SPECIAL DEVELO
Team Leader: Toshiaki Keicho                              TL Unit: SASIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 3, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SINDH SPECIAL DEVELO                           LICITF Number: 25580
CountryIDepartmenl: PAKISTAN                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development; UU - Urban
Development Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/29/88                                 Effective: 06/10/94           09/21/94
Appraisal:  08/19/93                                  MTR: 12/01/96              12/12/96
Approval:  12/16/93                                 Closing: 12/31/98            06/30/99
Borrower/ImplementingAgency: GOP/GOVT OF SINDH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Jonathan S. Kamkwalala                     Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:   Toshiaki Keicho                           Neil Boyle
ICR Primary Author:   Toshiaki Keicho
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=-lighly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HT=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the project were to support the first five years of Government of
Sindh's (GOS) policy reform program for the urban sector and municipal government by:
(a) financing an immediate action plan to begin to deal with some of the most urgent
environmental and infrastructure problems in Karachi and three interior cities;



(b) supporting GOS's newly created policy-making machinery in implementing its program
of fiscal and administrative reforms;
(c) initiating institutional strengthening for two key urban services organizations in
Karachi, namely the Karachi Development Authority (KDA) and the Karachi Metropolitan
Corporation (KMC); and
(d) preparing engineering studies for future transport improvements in Karachi.
The above objectives were clear and responsive to the circumstances of the borrower who
suffered (and is still suffering) from urban environmental degradation and unsustainable urban
institutions and policies. However, the project's province-wide focus on urban and other policy
reforms was too ambitious and risky, especially given the political instability in Pakistan, and in
the Province of Sindh particular, when the project was being formulated. In addition, there should
have been a clear division of responsibilities between KDA (provincial authority) and KMC (local
government) before we targeted these urban institutions for institutional strengthening.
3.2 Revised Objective:
During the last few years of project implementation, it became apparent to both GOS and
IDA that various policy reforms envisaged for the project were unachievable, and that the policy
goals of the project could be best met by focusing on higher-priority items in Karachi. A project
mid-term review mission in December 1996 started the process of identifying with GOS a number
of lower-priority activities within the project. However, it took GOS over a year to reach an
internal agreement on the scope of a restructured project. Finally in March 1998, it formally
requested IDA to delete low priority fiscal and administrative reforms and to utilize the savings
arising, plus savings arising from appreciation of the SDR versus the Pakistan rupee, for financing
severance payments for redundant staff of the Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC) which was
closed down in March 1997. To help relieve the hardships caused to the redundant KTC staff due
to non-payment of their dues for over two years, the IDA management submitted the proposed
project restructuring and Credit amendment documents to the Board in November 1998, which
approved them on February 25, 1999. The Credit amendment documents were finally signed in
March 1999. The Credit closing date was extended by six months (until June 30, 1999) to allow
the disbursement of the severance payments to be completed.
The revised project objectives after the project restructuring were to:
(a) begin to overcome serious environmental and infrastructure problems besetting
Karachi and the interior cities of Sindh;
(b) support Sindh's institutional reform program; and
(c) strengthen capacity of KMC.
3.3 Original Components:
There were originally five main components: (a) environmental upgrading in Karachi; (b)
transport improvements in Karachi and three interior cities; (c) fiscal and administrative reform;
(d) institutional strengthening; and (e) investment program preparation.
The environmental upgrading component in Karachi included: (i) channelization of outfall
reaches of the Korangi Nallah which is one of the primary drains serving the Korangi area; (ii)
Malir River flood protection works, consisting of construction of earthen embankments, bridges,
- 2 -



drainage inlets, slope protection works and stone apron, and modification of spurs along both
banks; and (iii) an environmental impact assessment of the highly polluted Korangi Industrial
Area.
The transport improvements component included: (i) widening and improvement of an
existing bridge over Lyari River in Karachi; (ii) construction of a railway overpass on the
University Road in Karachi; (iii) improvements to traffic management at 16 intersections in
Karachi, including works for removal of roundabouts, installation of signals, adequate facilities for
pedestrians and other site specific improvements; and (iv) construction of bus terminals in
Larkana and Mirpurkhas and a truck terminal in Nawabshah.
The fiscal and administrative reform component included: (i) property tax reform initially
in Karachi and then in interior cities, with focus on expansion of the property tax net,
improvement in property tax administration, rationalization of fees and taxes associated with
transfer of real property, selling of land at market prices, and establishment of institutional
arrangements to monitor tax policies; (ii) improvements in investment planning and budgeting
both at the provincial and local government levels, with focus on evaluation of existing projects
and termination of low-priority investments, improvements in project identification, appraisal,
supervision and monitoring procedures, and changes in budgetary and planning procedures; and
(iii) financial management reform at the provincial level, with focus on reduction and elimination
of account deficit, reduction of subsidies, containment of recurrent expenditure growth,
strengthening public auditing procedures, computerization of financial accounting, monitoring and
reporting systems, and so on.
The institutional strengthening component included: (i) strengthening of KDA in the areas
of land management, resettlement, base mapping, and staff training; and (ii) strengthening of
KMC in the areas of financial planning and management, land record systems and procedures,
resettlement activities, and staff training.
The investment program preparation component included: (i) preparation of the bus
transitway that was then being proposed for Karachi, consisting of detailed engineering design,
environmental impact assessment, and resettlement plans; and (ii) urban transport studies related
to traffic demand management and privatization of the Karachi Transport Corporation (KTC).
These project components were generally related to achieving the above original
objectives. The project design also took into account relevant lessons from prior urban projects
that in order to be sustainable, physical investments should be supported by policy reforms and
institutional strengthening. While there is no doubt that the policy and institutional reforms
included in the original project design were needed in Sindh, the number and nature of the reforms
were politically difficult and too ambitious, going far beyond the urban sector and covering
various departments and agencies.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the borrower's request, IDA approved in December, 1994 additional transport
improvements in three more interior cities. Therefore, construction of taxi and wagon stands in
- 3 -



Jacobabad, roads in Sukkur, and a bus terminal in Sehwan Sharif were added to the project. This
revision was made just by amending the Development Credit Agreement.
As mentioned above, the restructuring of the project was approved by the Board in
February 1999. The restructured project contained all the original physical components plus the
transport improvements in the three interior cities added to the project in 1994, reduced policy
reforms and institutional components, and the KTC severance payments component. The reduced
policy and institutional components included: (i) increasing the yield of property tax in Karachi
through a combination of increased rates, reduced exemptions, property revaluation, and
improved collections; (ii) furthering financial management reforms in GOS, through containment
of low priority recurrent expenditures and subsidies and improving financial systems; (iii)
developing a digital map for Karachi; and (iv) strengthening KMC's land management. The
original project components that were dropped in project restructuring included: (i) an
environmental impact assessment of the Korangi Industrial Area; (ii) property tax reform in the
interior cities of Sindh; (iii) implementation of a market-price policy for land sales; (iv)
estabilishment of institutional arrangements for monitoring tax policies; (v) changes in GOS's
budgetary and planning procedures; (vi) strengthening public auditing procedures and financial
accounting systems; (vii) activities related to resettlement; and (viii) concluding preparation of the
bus transitway for Karachi.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry of the project is unsatisfactory mainly because of the lack of serious risk
assessment and the ambitious original project design, especially the policy reform component. The
original policy component covered many seemingly difficult reforms whose linkages to the
physical components were not very clear. According to the project's Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) dated Novemberv 24, 1993, "there were serious political risks in Sindh andparticularly
in Karachi as evidenced by political instability, civil disturbances, and military intervention of
the last two years." Further, the SAR says 'these risks are manageable", which turned out to be
untrue as project implementation significantly suffered from frequent changes in GOS and law and
order problems in Karachi.
Also, the SAR rightly identifies a risk that GOS's commitment to the project and,
especially, the policy measures, might weaken. Confirmation of the policy statement by the newly
elected government then is cited as a factor to mitigate this risk in the SAR. Given such politically
sensitive policy issues as property tax reform and other public sector reforms included in this
project, however, the project design should have been less ambitious or should have included
some mechanisms to assess borrower commitment/ownership more rigorously with a clear exit
strategy. Or the project should have required GOS's upfront actions on some of the key policy
issues.
Financial accounting, reporting and auditing arrangements for the project were not well
defined. At the time the project was prepared and appraised, the Bank did not have financial
management specialists who could provide assistance on these aspects.
- 4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project's outcome is unsatisfactory as the project failed to achieve the original
project objectives. The original objectives of the project were to support the first five years of
Government of Sindh's (GOS) policy reform program for the urban sector and municipal
government by: (a) financing an immediate action plan to begin to deal with some of the most
urgent enviromnental and infrastructure problems in Karachi and three interior cities; (b)
supporting GOS's newly created policy-making machinery in implementing its program of fiscal
and administrative reforms; (c) initiating institutional strengthening for two key urban services
organizations in Karachi, namely the Karachi Development Authority (KDA) and the Karachi
Metropolitan Corporation (KMC); and (d) preparing engineering studies for future transport
improvements in Karachi. Apparently, the original project gave a high priority to various policy
reforms in the Sindh Province. However, the policy reform component was significantly reduced
at the project restructuring in the late stage of project implementation as these reforms could not
be achieved. The number and scope of the project objectives were also reduced at the project
restructuring, and the revised objectives were to: (a) begin to overcome serious environmental
and infrastructure problems besetting Karachi and the interior cities of Sindh; (b) support Sindh's
institutional reform program; and (c) strengthen capacity of KMC. It should be noted here that
the project outcome would be rated as satisfactory, though marginally, if the rating reflected the
new project objectives revised at the project restructuring.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Physical Objectives: The physical objective of the project was substantially achieved as
the majority of the planned physical works were successfully completed. Those successfully
completed before the extended credit closing date (June 30, 1999) include: (i) channelization of
the Korangi Nallah (stormwater drainage scheme); (ii) Malir River flood protection works; (iii)
Lyari River bridge; (iv) a railway overpass on the University Road; (v) improvements at 14
intersections in Karachi; (vi) road rehabilitation works in Sukkur; (vii) bus terminals in Larkana
and Mirpurkhas; and (viii) a truck terminal in Nawabshah. Regarding the intersection
improvements in Karachi, two intersections out of the planned sixteen were dropped because they
were to be carried out by other projects. The completed works in Karachi seem to be functioning.
Most of the works in the interior cities have just been completed, and their development impacts
are yet to be examined.
There are two sub-components of transport infrastructure improvements in two interior
cities that could not be completed before the credit closing date. They are: (i) taxi and wagon
stands in Jacobabad; and (ii) a bus terminal in Sehwan Sharif. These works were partially (about
80%) completed at the credit closing. The reasons for delay in completing these transport
facilities include: (i) delays in land acquisition due to political interference, which delayed the
award of contracts; and (ii) non-compliance on the part of the contractors. GOS has now agreed
to complete these works from its own resources.
(b) Sector Policies/Financial Objective: Achievement of these objectives was negligible
against the original project design and modest against the restructured design, which contained a
significantly reduced number of components related to these objectives. The original policy
- 5-



reform component included: (i) property tax reform initially in Karachi and then in interior cities,
with focus on expansion of the property tax net, improvement in property tax administration,
rationalization of fees and taxes associated with transfer of real property, selling of land at market
prices, and establishment of institutional arrangements to monitor tax policies; (ii) improvements
in investment planning and budgeting both at the provincial and local government levels, with
focus on evaluation of existing projects and termination of low-priority investments,
improvements in project identification, appraisal, supervision and monitoring procedures, and
changes in budgetary and planning procedures; and (iii) financial management reform at the
provincial level, with focus on reduction and elimination of account deficit, reduction of subsidies,
containment of recurrent expenditure growth, strengthening public auditing procedures,
computerization of financial accounting, monitoring and reporting systems, and so on. The revised
component only included: (i) increasing the yield of property tax in Karachi through a
combination of increased rates, reduced exemptions, property revaluation, and improved
collections; and (ii) furthering financial management reforms in GOS, through containment of low
priority recurrent expenditures and subsidies and improving financial systems.
It is very disappointing that GOS was able to complete the survey for property
revaluation, the core of the property tax reform, for only about 10% of the properties in two
divisions of Karachi, which they had managed to commence at a very late stage of project
implementation. No survey was conducted in the other 19 divisions. Although GOS initiated
some steps toward enhancing property taxes including removal of exemptions, enforcement of a
surcharge, and completion of Market Rent Study, the property tax reform was far from complete.
The continuing political uncertainty in Sindh, which has resulted in four govemment changes
during project implementation, and overall law and order problems in Karachi contributed to the
delays in commencing and the failure to complete the property tax reform, which was one of the
very few policy components that survived the project restructuring.
The other key policy component, financial management reform, could not be completed
either. GOS's Finance Department completed studies for public accounts, computerization, and
debt management. The implementation of the study recommendation regarding debt management
has resulted in savings of Rs. 1.2 billion to GOS through reconciliation of its accounts with the
Federal Government. However, the implementation of public accounts and computerization of
the Thatta and Hyderabad treasuries, receipt and payments in the Karachi treasury and budgeting
in Finance Department was only partially completed due to lack of GOS's commitment in early
years and subsequent delays in implementation.
Implementation of the KTC severance payments, which was added to the project at the
project restructuring, was satisfactory despite the limited available time for implementation.
Among 3,304 affected KTC ex-employees, only 141 cases remained undisbursed as of June 30,
1999. Therefore, it is safe to say that this project restructuring helped GOS meet its severance
payments obligations and relieved the hardship to the KTC ex-employees and their families. A
private audit firn was engaged in administering the KTC payments, including the issuance and
delivery of checks to KTC ex-employees in order to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic clearances
and delays. GOS also showed its strong commitment to this component by putting aside Rs. 160
million for seed money even before the project restructuring was approved by the Board, despite
- 6 -



difficulties in timely release of counterpart funds for this project in the past.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The investments in transport infrastructure in Karachi returned mixed results.
Summary of Evaluation Results
(Pakistan Rs. millions)
Lyari Bridge     University Road Overpass    14 Intersections
SAR        ICR         SAR         ICR        SAR         ICR
NPV (12%        81         72         310         -190        108         not
discount)                                                              calculated
ERR        126%            19%        34%         -5%        24.8%
Lyari River Bridge: The cost of the project was Rs. 95 million, an increase of Rs. 9
million or 10% over the Rs. 86 million estimated at appraisal. The net present value of the project
at a 12% discount rate was Rs. 72 million and the ERR was 19%.
University Road Overpass: The railway has not been operating trains on the section of
track which this bridge crosses over since 1997. Since the benefit of the project depends solely on
the elimination of waiting time due to the railway - roadway traffic conflict, this makes the value
of the project zero. It is as though a bridge had been built over an empty field. The overpass
means that any future re-introduction of rail traffic will not conflict with the road. This may make
it more feasible to operate trains in the future. These possible future benefits are hypothetical and
no attempt has been made to estimate them for this ICR. The cost of the project was Rs. 286
million, an increase of Rs. 58 million or 25% over the Rs. 228 million estimated in the 1993 PC-I.
The net present value of the project at a 12% discount rate was Rs. -197 million and the ERR was
-5%. The negative ERR value arises because the amount assumed as a residual value does
provide a small positive benefit at the end of the project life and allows the calculation of an ERR.
Intersections Improvements: With no detail available on how the benefits were estimated
it is not possible to prepare an exact replication of the analysis at the time of the SAR. Traffic
was expected to grow fairly uniformly among the 14 project intersections, at between 23% and
27%, between 1993 and 1997. The actual traffic counts show considerable differences, ranging
from a decline of 58% to, in one case only, a rise of 25%. Even after dropping one outlying case
the weighted average increase is only 3%. Studies to determine the average delay per vehicle in
the intersection were conducted for six project intersections in late February 2000 and compared
with values found in earlier studies. Average delay has increased fractionally at one location and
substantially at the other five locations, where in each case the average delay time more than
doubled. The wide variance in results described above, frequent inconsistencies in the data, and
the absence of a description of the methods used at appraisal lead to the conclusion that a
meaningful quantitative re-evaluation is not possible for this sub-component. The cost of this
sub-component was Rs. 93million, an saving of Rs. 19 million or 17% below the Rs. 112 million
estimated in the SAR.
-7 -



Economic Evaluation in the SAR: The description and detail provided in the SAR on
economic evaluation is very inadequate and at times misleading. It provides only a text
description of the final aggregate economic figures (NPV, ERR) with no indication of the cash
flows used to derive these results. The cost of the two bridges is only shown as a combined
figure. Background work for the economic evaluation contained significant errors which were
not detected. The economic evaluation prepared in the SAR was not appropriate to this urban
transport project. It did not evaluate traffic flows in a network context or provide a reason why
this was not done. It did not include consideration of increased congestion during project
construction as a "negative benefit". The project did not include provision for ex-post evaluation
and monitoring of project results. In evaluating the railway overpass, the SAR did not attempt a
forecast of future use of the railway line but implicitly assumed the present situation would
continue. As the entire value of this project sub-component rested on the assumption of
continued railway traffic the possibility of a decline in railway traffic should have been evaluated
as a risk.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Achievement of the Institutional Development Objective was negligible against the original
project design and modest against the restructured project. The original project's institutional
strengthening targeted KDA and KMC, but the restructured project included only KMC
strengthening with a reduced scope. The Executive Planning and Action Coordination
Organization (EXPACO) of GOS, which was established under the project to provide overall
coordination of the project and GOS's policy reform, suffered delays in appointment and frequent
changes of its Director General and was hardly fully staffed during project implementation,
contributing to the unsatisfactory project outcome.
KMC Institutional Strengthening: KMC was able to complete the planned activities only
partially. Repair and restoration work of over 500 land maps has been completed. KMC also
completed un-finished activities under the Karachi Special Development Project (Cr. 1652-PAK)
for computerization of its Finance Wing, which is now fully operational. Scanning of lease
documents of two divisions was complete, but the other five divisions remained to be completed.
The training for Land Department staff was also not completed. KMC assured the ICR mission
that it had allocated the required budget to complete these activities.
EXPACO: One of the key attempts under the original project was to change the ad hoc
and arbitrary way GOS had developed public policies and to institutionalize collaborative policy
fornulation among the bureaucrats, politicians, and the public. During project preparation, GOS
and IDA agreed on a three-tier institutional arrangement to enable the collaborative policy
formulation, consisting of Interdepartmental Working Groups, Secretaries Committee, and
Cabinet Committee. EXPACO was established as a secretariat to the Cabinet Committee to
coordinate this policy formulation as well as to provide overall coordination of the project
activities. However, EXPACO experienced long delays in appointment and frequent changes of
its Director General and was hardly fully staffed during project implementation. EXPACO played
a very active role as a channel for communication on project activities between GOS and IDA
-8 -



especially in later years of project implementation, but hardly played the originally envisaged role
in collaborative policy formulation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There are two major factors that significantly contributed to the unsatisfactory project
outcome: (i) law and order problems in Sindh, especially in Karachi; and (ii) political instability in
Sindh. The law and order problems in Karachi throughout the project period troubled all the
parties involved (implementing agencies, contractors and consultants, and IDA's supervision
missions), delaying many of the project activities and making site visits impossible. The political
instability in Sindh, resulting in four Government changes during the project period, was also the
key factor for the deficient implementation, especially regarding the policy reform components.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There are two main factors subject to governrnent control that adversely affected the
project implementation: (i) lack of government commitment/ownership; (ii) appointment delays
and frequent changes in staff of key agencies; and (iii) lack of timely release and availability of
counterpart funds. The project suffered from the lack of government commitment/ownership
throughout the project. Frequent changes in government exacerbated the problem as replacement
of key staff was inevitable when the govermment changes.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agencies' control, which adversely affected the project
implementation, include: (i) poor work planning; (ii) poor contract management; (iii) poor
pre-qualification of contractors and shortlisting of consultants; (iv) delays in seeking required
clearances from and necessary actions by other agencies; and (v) poor project financial
management, including a lack of adequate financial controls as reflected in qualified audit reports,
delays in receiving audit reports and follow-up of significant audit observations.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The credit was closed on June 30, 1999, six months behind the originally scheduled
closing date. The original total project cost, estimated at appraisal, was US$58.6 million, out of
which US$46.8 million was IDA credit. The actual project cost at credit closing was US$49.9
million (85.2% of the original), and the total amount of IDA disbursements was US $42.1 million,
which is about 90% of the original Credit amount.
Actual project costs by component (see Annex 2) are very much different from those
estimated at appraisal. Due to GOS's inability to implement the fiscal and administrative reforms
and institutional strengthening, the total amount spent for these components was just about 20%
of the originally allocated amount. About a half of the IDA credit was disbursed solely for the
KTC severance payments, which was not in the original project and added at the project
restructuring in early 1999.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is unlikely for such reasons as: (i) unfavorable policy
-9-



environment in Sindh; and (ii) weak institutions and EXPACO's uncertain future. Pakistan and the
Province of Sindh have continued to experience political instability. In such a political
environment, it would be too optimistic to expect sustaining institutional and policy reforms
initiated under the project. However, it should be noted that many high level officials of GOS
have shown interest in continuing property tax reform efforts, which are desperately needed
especially after the abolition of octroi, and have sought IDA's continued support.
KDA and KMC remain weak in their institutional capacities for urban management, and
their responsibilities are duplicated in some areas. To meet the growing challenges in Karachi, it is
urgently needed to review and clarify KDA and KMC's roles in urban development/management
and to strengthen them in line with the redefined roles. Future of EXPACO, which was
established under the project, is also unclear. EXPACO was supposed to coordinate bureaucrats,
politicians, and the public in policy formulation, but rather ended up being like a typical project
management unit.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the assets created under the project have been transferred to KMC and other
agencies responsible for their operations and maintenance. However, there are some physical
components that have problems in transition arrangements to regular operations. The Malir River
flood protection scheme, completed by KDA, is yet to be transferred to the Irrigation and Power
Department, which KDA believes is a responsible department for routine maintenance of the
scheme. As a result, some removals of stone pitching from the completed spurs were already
evidenced during the ICR mission of July 1999.
Some of the transport infrastructure in interior cities created under the project, such as a
bus terminal in Larkana, was not yet operational at the time of the ICR mission. In Larkana where
the ICR mission visited, it seemed to be an enormous challenge for the concerned municipality to
successfully and orderly transfer functions of the old and existing bus terminal to the new one
created under the project. That would require at least a series of stakeholder meetings with
private bus operators, private businesses interested in renting spaces in the terninal, and citizens.
The ICR mission asked GOS to prepare and submit an operational plan to highlight: (i)
institutional arrangements for operations and maintenance of the assets created under the project
(especially for the Malir River flood protection scheme); (ii) steps to operationalize the newly
created transport facilities (such as a bus terminal in Larkana); (iii) plans and schedule to complete
some of the uncompleted works (a bus treminal in Sehwan Sharif and taxi and wagon stands in
Jacobabad); and (iv) key performance indicators to monitor operations of the project. However,
such a plan has not been submitted to IDA, and the status of some of the non-operational
facilities/infrastructure mentioned above remains unclear.
According to the original plan, all the physical works were supposed to be completed one
year prior to the credit closing, allowing IDA to continue its supervision during the initial
operational phase. Delays in implementation, however, made it impossible. There is no
Bank-financed follow-up project planned at the moment. Therefore, it would be recommended
that the Bank monitor operational aspects of the project even after the credit closing, perhaps
with the Islamabad Office playing a major role.
-10 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the lending activities was unsatisfactory. The original project design
that the Bank assisted GOS in preparing was too complex with many ambitious policy reforms
covering various departments and agencies. Despite the continuing political instability in Sindh
resulting in several government changes during the project preparation, Bank's appraisal was too
optimistic in assessing the risk of implementing these policy reforms. In retrospect, the mere
confirmation of the policy statement by one government at appraisal was not a satisfactory risk
mitigation at all, given foreseeable political changes in Sindh at that time. The project design
should have been simpler and better-targeted perhaps with a clear exit strategy in case of
continued lack of government commitment or lack of commitment by a new government. From
1990 to 1993, approximately 258 Bank staff weeks went into lending activities of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was unsatisfactory, too. Although project
implementation progress and issues were adequately reported, reality of performance ratings in
Bank's supervision reports in the first few years are questionable. Recommendations of the Bank's
mid-term review mission in December 1996 eventually resulted in the project restructuring in
early 1999. While the mission's advice for restructuring the project was absolutely adequate, the
project restructuring should have been initiated much earlier without having to wait for the
mid-term review. During about five and a half years of implementation period (December 1993 to
June 1999), there were only eight Bank supervision missions even though the project had been
experiencing serious implementation delays and problems. Therefore, the Bank could not help
GOS address the implementation problems proactively. However, a main reason for the lack of
Bank's supervision efforts for this project was attributed to the serious law and order problems
that had existed during the course of the project in Karachi. Very often, it was simply impossible
to visit Karachi, and even more so to visit the project sites. The fact that the UN security
coordinator once called and asked a Bank supervision mission to immediately leave Karachi
during a meeting with GOS describes the seriousness of the law and order problems there and
difficulties in supervising this project.
There were two changes in task leadership for Bank's project team during project
implementation. Skill mix of the supervision team was generally adequate, consisting mainly of
engineers and financial analysts. However, no financial management specialists were involved in
supervision as these have only recently been engaged by the Bank. Inputs from such specialists
may have led to more timely action on the financial management reform component, on
inadequate project financial statements and late audit reports, and on the follow-up of audit
observations. Also, field staff should have been much more utilized in order to make continuous
supervision and follow-up on advice and agreed actions more effective.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was unsatisfactory since both lending and supervision activities
were unsatisfactory as described above.
- 11 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation by GOS was unsatisfactory. First, approving a Policy and Human
Resource Development (PHRD) Grant, needed for project preparation, took almost a year in
1990. Preparation took almost four years until the project was approved in December 1993 partly
due to frequent political changes and bureaucratic delays. Lack of stakeholder participation in
project preparation is another reason for the unsatisfactory rating.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOS's implementation performance was unsatisfactory. GOS failed to implement most of
the policy and institutional reforms included in the original project. GOS even failed to complete
the reduced policy components after the project restructuring. EXPACO was hardly fully staffed,
and appointment of its full-time Director General was delayed for a long time. In addition, it took
GOS more than one year to reach an internal consensus on the scope of a restructured project
after the mid-term review of the project, leaving only a very short time to implement the
restructured project. GOS's decision to engage a private firm in administering the KTC severance
payments proved to be a success as more than 99% of the payments were completed in a very
short period of time.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of implementing agencies was marginally satisfactory given the fact that they
successfully completed most of the physical works before the credit closing, despite the initial
delays and the very difficult working environment full of security problems. However, their
performance for operational aspects of the project is yet to be seen (see the section 6).
Financial management of implementing agencies was deficient, considering the fact that
audit reports were always late (varying from 10 days to 14 months overdue) and that there was no
serious follow-up of audit observations. Recent audit reports are all qualified, and the natute of
the audit observations include: (i) unauthorized payment on extra items of work; (ii) unauthorized
payment to contractors on reduced rates less than the schediled rates; (iii) irregular expenditure
without inviting open tenders; and (iv) excess expenditure over the sanctioned estimate. The
Special Accounts still have an outstanding balance of $102,194.33 (KMC) and $28,916.54
(KDA), and these amounts are long overdue to be refunded to the Bank.
7.7 Overall Borroiver performance:
Overall, Borrower performance was unsatisfactory for the reasons described above.
8. Lessons Learned
Lend A2ainst Deeds. Not Against Words: Most of the policy reforms included in the original
project were not implemented, despite the confirmation of the policy statement by GOS at
appraisal, and later dropped from the project. Promises to implement policy reforms are not
enough, and policy actions essential to sustaining project benefits must be taken before project
appraisal as a sign of government commitment to the project. In other words, the Bank should
lend against deeds, not against words.
Assess Borrower Ownership More Riaorouslv: The Bank overestimated borrower's ownership
- 12 -



of the project and underestimated the serious risk of political changes. The Bank should more
rigorously assess borrower ownership, especially for projects with policy and institutional
reforms. There is a need for reassessing project ownership when the government changes. Such
an ownership assessment should include leadership analysis, stakeholder analysis, and assessment
of political feasibility.
Tareet Broader Civil Society for Needed Policy Reforms: During both project preparation and
implementation, the project target was always senior bureaucrats and policy makers, and little
effort was made to establish consensus for much needed policy reforms, such as property tax
reforms, among the broader civil society. In order to survive political changes, policy and
institutional reforms must be supported by broader constituencies outside the senior government
officials, and every effort should be made to obtain such a support from as various civic groups as
possible.
Restructure Problem Projects Earlier: The project suffered from serious law and order
problems in Sindh, particularly in Karachi. Bank's supervision efforts were curtailed by the
problems. Under such a difficult situation with implementation delays in many components, the
Bank should have considered exercising remedies or restructuring the project much earlier
without waiting for the mid-term review, or a clear exit strategy may have been needed. The
actual restructuring took place in the final year of project implementation, leaving too little time to
implement the restructured project.
Shorten Project Duration: This project took about I I years from the start of project preparation
to completion. This was too long, and the project duration should be shorter for projects which
do not have large indivisible civil works. Shorter duration significantly reduces implementation
risks and by and large ensures that original champions are still around.
Strengthen Financial Mana2ement: Projects in Pakistan need to strengthen their financial
mnanagement aspects. For example, project preparation and appraisal need to ensure inclusion of a
sound financial management system in the project design. Also, Bank's supervision missions need
to give more emphasis to financial management aspects through adequate input from financial
management specialists.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Not available.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
Not available.
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                 Activities             Outputs        Outcomes                   Impacts
Strengthen physical and    Sign contract to   Agree and implement  Planning &             Improved GOS ability
financial progress      computerize the       progress reporting    Development Dept.   to carry out effective
monitoring, evaluation,    Planning &         procedures.          (GOS) uses system to: provincial
and reporting procedures  Development                               -- record and         development
for development         Department.           Devise and adopt      summarize the current  programs, by March
schemes.                                      measures for          physical and financial  31, 1998 - key
Prepare and deliver    evaluation of the   status of each scheme,  indicator
full technical       suitability of        at quarterly intervals;
documents to         completed schemes to  -- determine whether
Planning &           meet their stated     each completed
Development          design purposes.      scheme meets the
Department.                                needs articulated at
Computerize ADP      the time of project
Develop progress     records and train staff selection; and
measures for         to operate the system,  - prepare a report on
development          by March 1998.        the extcnt to which
schemes.                                   current and recent
ADPs will likely meet
GOS's development
goals.
- 14-



SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                Activities            Outputs        Outcomes                  Impacts
Establish multi-year   Determine historical   Deliver a forecasting   Finance Dept.   GOS improves its
financial forecasting for   relationships in  methodology to     prepares forecasts of  financial performance
GOS.                   respect of assets and   Finance Department.   GOS's financial  and makes more
liabillities, current                    positions twice a year: effective employment,
revenues, current   Finance Department   in December to the    expenditure, and
expenditures, GOS   prepares forecast by    government for    development
borrowing, and      December 31, 1997.   planning purposes;    decisions.
development                              and in June as a
expenditure.                             public
accompaniment to the
Evaluate and select                      budget.
among published
forecasts of the
performance of the
national and
provincial economy,
and relate to forecasts
of GOS revenues and
expenditures.
Develop a method for
medium-term
forecasting of GOS
-15 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                 Activities            Outputs        Outcomes                   Impacts
Improve and computerize  Study the Finance   Deliver list of internal  Improved systems for  GOS prepares clearer
Finance Dept.'s         Department's control   control weaknesses,    budget preparation  budgets, at less
accounting, monitoring,   and reporting      and recommendations  and financial control,  resource cost.
reporting procedures, and  systems, and methods  for improvement to    by January 31, 1998 -
internal controls with  of budget preparation.  the Finance Dept.  key indicator.        GOS tracks budget
respect to GOS finances.                                                                 performance more
Study the Finance    Design information   Finance Department   accurately, and
Department's existing  system for Finance  uses improved        responds to changed
computer systems,    Dept.                systems to generate    circumstances faster
and assess ways to                         11 b      d          and more effectively.
meet its internal    Computer system for   all budgets.
reporting and        budget preparation    Finance Department
budgeting needs.     and financial
reporting insta1led at   uses new systems to
Design and deliver a   Finance Department   monitor budget
computer system to    by January 31, 1998.   performance and
facilitate the                            report monthly to
cperations of the
Finance Dept.
Train employees of
the Finance
I _____________________   Department in  new
- 16 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                Activities     |      Outputs        Outcomes           [      Impacts
Improve record-keeping   Examine the full set   Deliver a        GOS incorporates     Improved accuracy in
and accounting of GOS    of loan assets and  comprehensive,      accurate debt service   current-year
loan liabilities.      liabilities of the GOS.  detailed, statement of  requirements in  budgeting and longer-
GOS's outstanding   financial forecasts and  term financial and
Prepare an          loan payables and    estimates of         development planning
amortization schedule  receivables in each of  expenditures in each   for GOS.
for each loan, and  the next twenty years  budget.
reconcile with the  to the Finance
accounts of lenders    Department in May    The Finance Dept.
and borrowers.      1997.                installs improved loan
accounting
Prepare an overall  Train Finance        procedures.
projection of the net   Department staff in
loan obligations of the  improved record-
GOS.                keeping and loan
accounting
Recommend           procedures.
improved procedures
for loan accounting.
SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                Activities            Outputs        Outcomes                 Impacts
Financial information  Award contract for    Pilot installation of    E&T will enhance  Improved financial
system for motor vehicle  computerization of    computer system for   revenues and reduce   position of GOS.
tax.                   the motor vehicle tax.  E&T Dept.         costs of collection of
the motor vehicle tax.  Improved efficiency
Write full          E&T staff trained to                      of operation of E&T
documentation of the   operate the system.                    Department.
computer system.
Install fully
Train E&T staff to  operational system by
use the system.     March 1998.
- 17 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN CORE DEPARTMENTS
Name                 Activities           Outputs         Outcomes                  Impacts
Strengthen management   Examine the Public    Deliver to the Finance  The Accountant   The GOS improves its
of GOS Public Account.  Accounts of the GOS,  Dept. and the       General and the      estimates of current
to determine the     Accountant General,   Finance Dept.       and future financial
current position of  by December 1997, a   implement improved   flows, and uses the
each account.       full statement of each  systems to maintain    knowledge to fit its
cash balance in the  accurate statements of  current and
Estimate the liabilities  public Accounts.  the cash balances in    development
of the GOS to the                        the Public Accounts.  spending plans to its
Provident Fund.      Deliver to the                            available resources.
Accountant General   The Finance
Review the           an improved system    Department
methodology the      of methods for       introduces more
Accountant General   monitoring and       efficient cashflow
uses to report cash  reporting cash       management
balances in the Public  balances.         procedures, by March
Account.                                  31, 1998-key
Deliver to the Finance  indicator.
Review the           Dept. an improved
methodology the     system of methods for
Finance Department   estimating cash flows
uses to estimate cash  through the Public
flows to and from the   Accounts.
.. ___________________    public  accounts in  the               I                    I_I
SSDP Performance Indicators
CLARIFY GOS'S DEVELOPMENT ROLE
Name                Activities            Outputs         Outcomes                  Impacts
Articulate development   Review existing     Prepare options paper  GOS makes formal    Permanent reduction
priorities for Sindh.  information about     for cabinet.         public statement of    in GOS debt burden,
level of service                          development          improvement in
delivery and projected  Prepare draft priority  priorities, with  investment efficiency,
service needs.      list for cabinet.     explanation of how   and clarification of
priorities will affect    political priorities.
List altemative      Prepare project      specific project
priority choices and    selection guidelines    selections.
implications for     for GOS.
development by.                           GOS prepares ADP
according to stated
Develop mechanisms                        priorities and
to translate priority                     procedures.
choices into project
selection criteria.
- 18 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
CLARIFY GOS's DEVELOPMENT ROLE
Name         j      Activities            Outputs        Outcomes           [      Impacts
Study role of          Study historical     Present report and   GOS reviews urban    Improved urban
development authorities.  mandates,         recommendations to   development policy    development policy
accomplishments,    GOS by October 31,   and the role of      and implementation in
deficiencies, and    1997.               development          Sindh.
methods of urban                         authorities.
development
authorities.
Develop and evaluate
alternative methods of
accomplishing the
mission of
development
authorities.
SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN URBAN LOCAL AUTHORITIES
Name                Activities            Outputs        Outcomes                 Impacts
Property tax evaluation    Conduct Market Rent  Complete Market  Revised property     Collect increased
Study.              Rent Study by June    valuation list in place  property tax based on
30, 1997.           by June 1998 - key    new valuation list.
Develop methodology                      indicator.
for survey of complex  Complete
properties.         methodology for      Fully computerize
survey of complex   property tax system.
Recruit SVFs.       properties.
Train SVFs and E&T   Train SVFs and E&T
staff.              staff.
Develop functional    Prepare and deliver
specifications for  full technical
computerization of    documents to E&T
property tax.       Dept.
Design application  Procure computers.
system.
Procure computer
hardware and
-19 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN URBAN LOCAL AUTHORITIES
Name                 Activities            Outputs        Outcomes                   Impacts
Computerize KMC land   Engage consultants to  Submit               KMC operates         KMC increases
records management.    recommend changes   recommendations to   improved land           revenues collected
in land records      KMC.                 recording system.     and reduces the cost
management.                                                     of collection.
Install new land
Develop system to    records system by
modernize land       March 31, 1998.
recording procedures
at KMC.
Design and install
computer system, if
recommended.
SSDP Performance Indicators
STRENGTHEN URBAN LOCAL AUTHORITIES
Name                 Activities            Outputs       [Outcomes             |     Impacts
Identify preconditions for  Desk research on  Submit a report to the  GOS decides whether  Preparation of a
a municipal development  municipal operational  GOS, outlining the    to proceed with   municipal
project for Sindh.      and management       prerequisites for     preparation of a     development project
capacity, financial  project identification.  municipal         for Sindh.
resources, and                            development project
institutional                             for the province.
development needs.
Review of existing
municipal
development
performance and
development
proposals.
Analysis of the major
constraints for a
municipal
development project,
and actions
recommended to
address these
- 20 -



SSDP Performance Indicators
EXPACO
Name                 Activities           Outputs        Outcomes                   Impacts
Fully staff EXPACO.     Hire 5 new officers.    Director General  EXPACO fully         GOS policy initiatives
appointed by         staffed to meet needs   and implementation
Train or provide     December 31, 1996.   of SSDP and other    strengthened by
orientation for new                       policy by March 31,   assistance of fully-
officers.            Appoint:             1997.                staffed EXPACO, by
-director PACU                           March 31, 1997 - key
-- project supervisor                    indicator.
- management
information
specialist
-- economist
-- institutional and
local
goverment
specialist.
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Environmental Upgrading                                    13.00              8.77            67.5
Transport Improvements                                     16.80             15.75            93.8
Fiscal and Administrative Reform                            6.10              1.49            24.4
Institutional Strengthening                                 2.30              0.20             8.7
Investment Program Preparation                              5.90              1.34            24.2
Project Supervision                                         4.00              1.28              32
KTC Severance Payments                                      0.00             21.07
Total Baseline Cost                                        48.10             49.90
Physical Contingencies                                     4.00
Price Contingencies                                        6.50
Total Project Costs                  58.60             49.90
Total Financing Required                   58.60            49.90
Project Financin  by Component (in US$ million equlvalent    _
Environ. IUpgrading     9.10      3.90   -------r6.07            2.70 766.7   6.                  .
Transport Improvements    I I.90  4.90                10.84      4.90              91.1 10.      00
Fiscal & Admin. Reform  5.80      0.30                 1.49      0.00              25.7   0.0    0.0
Inst. Strengthening     2.10      0.20                0.20       0.00              9.5    0.0    0.0
Investment Preparation   5.60     0.30                 1.34      0.00              23.9   0.0    0.0
Project Supervision      3.80     0.20                 1.06      0.22              27.9  110.0  0.0
KTC Severance Pay        0.00     0.00                21.07      0.00              0.0    0.0    0.0
Physical Contingencies   3.20     0.80                                             0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies      5.20      1.30                                            0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                   46.80     11.80               42.07      7.82              89.9   66.3   0.0
Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding error.
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
This annex covers two items, the economic re-evaluation of project components and the
quality and appropriateness of the evaluation work done at the time of project appraisal. The
Borrower has provided final project cost data but not its own re-evaluation of the project's
results. Several spreadsheets are attached which provide more detail on project costs, traffic
volumes, and the re-evaluation of benefits and costs.
Lyari Bridge      University Overpass      Intersections
SAR        ICR       SAR        ICR        SAR        ICR
NPV (12%           81        72                   -197        108        not
discount)                                                             caculaed
ERR               26%        19%       34%        -5%       24.8%
Economic Re-Evaluation
This section is divided into three parts corresponding to the three project sub-components
which were subject to detailed economic evaluation at the time of appraisal. All three of these
transport improvements are in Karachi.
Lyari River Bridge
Description: This sub-component included building a new four lane road bridge over the
Lyari River adjacent to an existing four lane bridge and the refurbishing of the existing bridge.
These bridges carry Rashid Minhas Road over the river.
Documentation and Data: In the case of the Lyari River bridge only the "revised" PC-I
documentation (dated October 1996) was available. The original PC-I documents were dated
about March 1993. It is the original PC-I documents which were used at the time of appraisal
(November 1993). One difference between these sources critical to the re-evaluation is that the
"revised" PC-I documents do not repeat all the source data from the original work but only
summarize global values. The traffic conditions at the time of appraisal and forecasts used in the
original PC-I are not available for review and have been estimated from the VOC data.
The "revised" PC-I documents take into account changes made apparently at the time of
negotiation or effectiveness. These include modifying the proportion of cost allocated to IDA
from 80% to 70% and increasing the cost estimate from Rs 43.142 million to Rs 54.233 million
(excluding contingencies). The final figure given of in the proforma is Rs 70.293 million which
- 23 -



includes contingencies but does not match the capital cost figure given in its own ERR calculation
of Rs 86.134 million. The discrepancy is assumed to arise because the proforma figure is for the
new bridge only while the ERR calculation includes the cost of re-construction of the existing
bridge structure to bring it up the standard of the new structure. (see spreadsheet: "costsO3.xls")
SAR Findings: The SAR indicates a net present value (NPV) of Rs 81 million (at a 12%
discount rate) for this sub-component with an economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at 26%.
The "revised" PC-I Form for this sub-component (prepared by the Karachi Development
Authority, October 1996) shows an NPV of Rs 46 million (at a 12% discount rate) and an ERR of
17%. It is not clear why the two documents do not match because the SAR provides no cost or
benefit detail.
Evaluation of SAR: Traffic patterns and benefits were not evaluated in a network context
or in a systemic way. The calculation of savings in vehicle operating costs uses the same traffic
volumes with and without the project. The SAR (Annex 12) specifically points out that traffic
diversions from other road links have not been considered.
Re-Evaluation Assumptions: For the re-evaluation in the ICR actual figures for
construction costs have been used, and unit VOCs have been updated from 1985 to a 1994 real
value using NTRC 1994 figures and the national GDP deflator between 1985 and 1994. (see
spreadsheet: "re_evalO3.xls", tab: "realVOC") Real VOCs for cars and minibuses increased and
those for buses and trucks decreased slightly. Field counts done in February 2000 show that
traffic is moving slightly slower than anticipated at the time of appraisal. The PC-I projected cars
moving at 60 km/hr, minibuses at 55 km/hr and buses and trucks at 50 km/hr in 2001. The
February 2000 field counts indicate travel at 47 km/hr in peak periods and 56 km/hr in the
off-peak. The SAR projected overall traffic levels of 120,000 vehicles/day in 2001. The February
2000 counts indicate 132,000 vehicles/day, or 10% higher than anticipated. Project benefits from
VOC savings have been recalculated using the higher unit VOCs, slower travel speed, and higher
traffic volume. (see spreadsheet: "re_evalO3.xls", tab: "lyariVOC")
Re-Evaluation Results: In economic terms this sub-component is successful and achieves
the results expected in the revised PC-I but not those expected in the SAR. The table below
summarizes the results of the evaluation. The cost of the project was Rs 95 million, an increase of
Rs 9 million or 10% over the Rs 86 million estimated at appraisal. The net present value of the
project at a 12% discount rate was Rs 72 million and the ERR was 19%. (see spreadsheet:
"re_evalO3.xls", tab: "lyariERR" available through South Asia Infrastructure Unit, (202)
458-5310)
- 24 -



Summary of Evaluation Results - Lyari River Bridge
(Pakistan Rs millions)
At Appraisal    After Effectiveness         At Completion
Source             SAR,           PC-I, revised       Borrower,          ICR,
Nov. 1993       October 1996        Jan. 2000        Apr. 2000
Construction    2 bridge cost    70.293 (excluding    75.896 (excluding  94.950
cost              = 312.03       reconstruction of  reconstruction of
existing bridge)  existing bridge)
86.134 for ERR
Construction       1994 to 95          1995 to 96                       1995 to 96
period
First year of           1996                1997                             1997
benefits
Project life              20                  20                               20
(years)
NPV (12%                  81              46.219                              71.8
discount)
ERR                     26%               17.46%                            19.2%
B/C ratio                                  1.589                              1.73
University Road Overpass
Description: This sub-component consisted of building a new eight lane overpass
carrying University Road over the Karachi Circular Railway track. This location is immediately
west of the intersection of University Road and Rashid Minhas Road. The bridge built over the
Lyari River (see above) is just north of this intersection. Other donor funding has provided a
road-road flyover at this intersection (University Road and Rashid Minhas Road) and another
road-rail overpass just south of the intersection. Taken together the World Bank and other donor
projects, with their four bridge structures, represent a substantial investment in this small area of
the city.
Documentation and Data: In the case of the University Road overpass detailed
information is available only in the original PC-I documents (March 1993). Here the figures
match those summarized in the SAR.
- 25 -



SAR Findings: The SAR indicates a net present value (NPV) of Rs 310 million (at a 12%
discount rate) for this sub-component with an economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at 34%.
Evaluation of SAR: As mentioned above in the section on the Lyari River bridge there
was not a systemic approach to evaluating traffic patterns or benefits. The SAR indicates that
calculated benefits are based on reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC) and savings in passenger
travel time. Examination of the background documentation shows that only time related vehicle
operating costs were considered in the evaluation, not the value of time of the passengers.
There is a further and significant error in calculating the rate of return expressed in the
PC-I. The cost stream used for the discounted cash flow analysis is based on a thirteen year
period, three years of construction and ten years of operation. The benefit stream is based only
on the ten year operating period. This means that benefits are overstated by ignoring the three
year gap between start of construction and beginning of project benefits. The NPV was shown as
Rs 314.571 million and the ERR as 34.5%. Reevaluating the data used at the time of appraisal
using the correct method yields an NPV of Rs 203 million and an ERR of 26.5%
The SAR also indicates that the ERR calculation is based on a twenty year project life.
Although traffic projections and vehicle operating costs were shown for twenty years, the actual
rate of return calculation is based on a thirteen and ten year periods as described above.
Re-Evaluation Assumptions: The problem with this sub-component is that the railway is
no longer operating trains on the section of track which this bridge crosses over. Since the
estimate of quantitative benefits in the SAR depends solely on the elimination of waiting time due
to the railway - roadway traffic conflict, this makes the value of the project zero (0). It is as
though a bridge had been built over an empty field. The evidence available indicates that by 1993
only two trains per day were operated on the Circular Railway resulting in four closures per day
not the 20 times per day used in the PC-I and SAR. An additional train operated between 1994
and 1997, meaning six closures per day. Since 1997 no trains have used this track. Discussions
in the field yielded no information on why the number of trains now reported by the Railway
Department for 1993 did not match the number of trains used in the PC-I and SAR.
There is some marginal benefit in providing a new, wider, elevated highway 500 metres
long, through its effect is likely to be swamped by congestion elsewhere in the surrounding traffic
system. The overpass means that any future re-introduction of rail traffic will not conflict with the
road. This may make it more feasible to operate trains in the future. These possible future
benefits are hypothetical and no attempt has been made to estimate them for this ICR.
Re-Evaluation Results: In economic terms this sub-component must be rated
unsuccessful. The table below summarizes the results of the evaluation. The cost of the project
was Rs 286 million, an increase of Rs 58 million or 25% over the Rs 228 million estimated in the
1993 PC-I. (see spreadsheet: "costsO3.xls") The net present value of the project at a 12%
discount rate was Rs -197 million and the ERR was -5%. The negative values arise because
there are no economic benefits derived from building the bridge. The amount assumed as a
- 26 -



residual value does provide a small positive benefit at the end of the project life and allows the
calculation of an ERR. (see spreadsheet: "re_evalO3.xls", tab: "university")
A "switch value" was also calculated to show what level of benefits would be necessary in
order to achieve a NPV of 0 (at 12% discount). Annual benefits of Rs 49 million would yield an
NPV of 0 with a corresponding ERR of 12%. This represents 69% of the initial year benefits
assumed at appraisal and 43% of the final year benefits assumed at appraisal. Too much
background material is missing to allow this rupee figure to be calculated back to a volume of
traffic figure with a reasonable degree of meaning.
Summary of Evaluation Results - University Road Overpass
(Pakistan Rs millions)
In preparation     At appraisal          At completion
PC-I              SAR                     ICR
March 1993      November 1993             April 2000
Base case    Switch value
Construction cost       228.286        2 bridge cost -     286.111       286.111
312.03
Construction period    1995 to 97        1994 to 96       1995 to 97     1995 to 97
First year of benefits   1998               1997            1998           1998
Benefit/year in first    71.043            71.043             0           48.896
year                                      _
Benefit/year in last    114.671            114.671            0           48.896
year                                _____
Project life (years)    20 stated         20 stated          13             13
10 and 13 used
NPV (12%                314.571             310           -196.647          0
discount)             But correctly
203.454
ERR                     34.47%              34%            -4.66%          12%
But correctly
26.5%        _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _
Intersections Improvements
Description: This sub-component consisted of 14 intersections which received
improvements to layout (road geometry) and had traffic signals installed. The intersections are
found in various locations around Karachi and together do. not comprise a set of intersections
- 27 -



suitable for integrated traffic management.
Documentation and Data: Detailed information is available only in the original PC-1
documents (April 1993). A total of 16 intersections were examined. (see spreadsheet:
"traffic03.xls") A larger number of intersections (approximately 23) had had traffic counts taken
at an earlier preliminary stage. Of these 16, four were dropped from the project and two others
were added. The criteria for dropping and adding intersections is not clear. One of the four had a
negative NPV in the initial analysis, two showed middle level returns and one showed a high
return. The PC-I estimated an NPV (at 10% discount) of Rs 140.093 million for the original 16
intersections and Rs 107.931 million for the 12 intersections carried over to the SAR. The PC-I
documents describe the expected reduction in road accidents by type and by intersection without
quantifying these benefits.
SAR Findings: The SAR indicates an overall economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at
24.8% for this sub-component. No figure is given for net present value (NPV).
Evaluation of SAR: As mentioned above there was not a systemic or network approach
to evaluating traffic patterns or benefits. The SAR indicates that calculated benefits are based on
reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC) and savings in passenger travel time. The background
documentation does not provide details of the calculation of benefits however it appears that
again only time related vehicle operating costs were considered in the evaluation, not the value of
time of the passengers. In the PC-I the benefit streams used in the discounted cash flow analysis
stay constant throughout the 10 year project life despite the projection of increasing traffic
volumes. It appears that an unchanging traffic volume was used in the benefits estimation.
Re-Evaluation Assumptions: With no detail provided on how the benefits were estimated
it is not possible to prepare an exact replication of the earlier analysis. Traffic counts were done
in 1997 for 12 of the project intersections. The spreadsheet "traffic03.xls" summarises these
results. Six project intersections were chosen to have delay studies conducted at the end of
February 2000. Three non-project intersections ("ICR intersections") also had traffic counts
taken at this time.
Re-Evaluation Results: The table below shows traffic count results by intersection.
Traffic was expected to grow fairly uniformly among the 14 project intersections, at between 23%
and 27%, between 1993 and 1997. The actual counts show considerable differences, ranging
from a decline of 58% to, in one case only, a rise of 25%. The average change was -5%.
Dropping the data for one intersection (DI, Old Exhibition) on the presumption of survey errors
raises the average change to positive 3%. (Data for intersection DI are contradictory in the PC-I
documents) Information for the three ICR intersections is based on 1993 and February-March
2000 traffic counts. Growth was expected to average 47% over 1993 to 2000. The recent
counts indicate actual growth of between 27% and 65% with an average of 38%.
The table also shows the average delay per vehicle in the intersection (vehicle is measured
in passenger car units). Of the six intersections which were studied in February 2000 the delay
has increased fractionally at one location and substantially at the other five locations, where in
- 28 -



each case the average delay time more than doubled. The weighted average increase in traffic
volume at the four of these for which traffic count data is available was 11%. Small increases in
traffic are generating large increases in delay times. The non-project intersections provide two
cases where both traffic count and new delay data are available. At these locations delays have
approximately doubled and traffic has increased by 32%. Larger increases in traffic are generating
smaller increases in delay times. The unusual increases in average delay for the project
intersections may be due to discrepancies between the methodologies used in 1993 and 2000.
Discussions with the local consultant performing the delay surveys confirms that the earlier
methods are also unclear to them.
- 29 -



Summary of Results by Intersection
_   hanwe in tramfrc      ArgeDea (secondstyehicCL!
Project Intersections   ExDected SAR     Actual ICR        SAR              ICR
Al    Ghani Chowk (State            23              -18              9              ns
Ave at S.I.T.E.)
A2    State Ave/Hub River Rd        21              25              50              ns
A3    Shershah Chowk (State         21                7             52              56
Ave & Sher Shaw
colony)
A4    Bara Board (Manghopir         24               13             34              ns
Rd & Shara-E-Altaf Ali
Barailvi)
BI    Liaquatabad Dak Khana         23              -9             50               ns
(S. M. Taufique Rd &
Oasim Rd)
B2    Three Swords, Clifton         27               8             26               56
(Khavaban-E-Igbal)
B3    Chaudhary Khaliq-uz-          na              19              17              43
Zamnan Rd/Sharae Jami
Cl    Sakhi Hassan                  26              na              16              55
Chowrangi
C2    Gharibabad (Sir Shah          25               9             30               74
Mohd. Suleman Rd &
Syed Ahmed Shaheed
Rd)
C3    Metro Cinema, Oran2i          24               8              11              33
C4    Jail Rd/Shaheed-E-            25              -21            39               ns
Millat Rd (Jail
Chowranei)   _        ____          ___
Dl    Old Exhibition (M. A.         27              -58             34              ns
Jinnah Rd, Britto Rd,
Sharae Quaideen,
Ni=zai Rd)
D2    Rashid Minhas/Godhra          na               10             na              ns
Camp Rd (Shara-E-
Shah Waliullah Rd.)
D3    Rashid Minhas                 na              na              na              ns
Rd/Gulshan Choranei  I
- 30 -



ICR In :rsections
47          27            17           37
ICRI    Khalid Bin Valid /
Shara-e-Quaideen
45          46            19           35
ICR2  Qaddafi Chowk, Orangi
na          65            ns           ns
ICR 3   West Warf/Link Road
47           38
3 intersections (wtd avg)
Notes:
% changefor project intersections is 1993 to 1997, for ICR intersections is 1993 to 2000,
na - not available
ns - not surveyed
Data on road accidents by intersection is not available for comparison against the
estimates prepared in 1993. With no detail provided on how the benefits were estimated it is not
possible to prepare an exact replication of the earlier analysis.
The wide variance in results described above, frequent inconsistencies in the data, and the
absence of a description of the methods used at appraisal lead to the conclusion that a meaningful
quantitative re-evaluation is not possible for this sub-component. The table below summarises the
known information.
- 31 -



Summary of Evaluation Results - Intersection Improvements
(Pakistan Rs millions)
In preparation    At appraisal  At completion
Source                      PC-I,            SAR,            ICR,
Apr. 1993       Nov. 1993       Apr. 2000
Construction cost          106.846          112.460         93.368
Number of intersections       16               14             14
Project life (years)          10               10
NPV (10% discount)         107.931                       not calculated
ERR                   range from 0.5% to      24.8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _3 1.4 %   I _ __ __I_ _   I__ _ __ _
Economic Evaluation in the SAR
In preparing the economic re-evaluation relevant background documentation was not
available in the Bank. An extensive search through the Bank's archives did not yield any useful
material or background papers related to the earlier economic analysis. The copies of the original
"PC-I" Forms used by GOP agencies had to be obtained, after considerable delay, from the files of
agencies and consultants in Karachi. As was seen above only different types of documentation
were available for the three different sub-components which complicated the re-evaluation.
The description and detail provided in the SAR on economic returns is very inadequate. It
provides only a text description of the final aggregate economic figures (NPV, ERR) with no
indication of the cash flows used to derive these results. Annex 12, which presented the economic
evaluation in slightly more detail, also does not provide this fundamental data. The costs of the
two bridges are shown only as combined figures, even in Annex 5 which provides the detailed
cost estimates. This makes it more difficult to reconcile the SAR's economic evaluation with the
various PC-I versions and their evaluations.
Several deficiencies regarding the SAR economic evaluation have been found.
The economic evaluation prepared in the SAR was not appropriate to this urban transport
project. It did not evaluate traffic flows in a network context or provide a reason why this was
not done. It did not include consideration of increased congestion during project construction as
a "negative benefit". The SAR did include both NPVs and ERRs. The evaluation conducted a
marginally adequate level of sensitivity analysis but did not calculate switch values.
It appears from the documentation that considerable effort was made establishing in the
traffic engineering parameters (vehicle operating costs, traffic volumes, delays) but less thought
- 32 -



and documentation was provided for the subsequent economic evaluation.
Under "Risks" the SAR discusses political risks, implementation delay, weakened GOP
commitment, and indicates there are no other unusual risks. In evaluating the railway overpass,
the SAR did not attempt a forecast of future use of the railway line but implicitly assumed the
present situation would continue. Giving some thought to future level of use of the railway
should also have led to consideration of the risk that the railway traffic would decline. The entire
value of this project sub-component rested on the assumption of continued railway traffic. The
possibility of a decline in railway traffic should have been evaluated as a risk.
The project did not include provision for ex-post evaluation and monitoring of project
results (for example through surveys or on-going statistical reporting).
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(o) Missions:
Sae of Project Cycle              No. Of Perns and Specialty               Rerforma ce lting|
(e.g. 2 Economists    MS  t.      IMplemetation      Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                      Progress         Objecie
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
May/94                       5  IME, 2FA, IPTS, IEC                 S                 S
February/95                  I  IFA                                 S                 S
November/95                  3  IFA, lUES, IIDS                     S                 S
April/96                     4  IMFS, ISE, IFA, llDS                U                 S
December/96                  6  IEC, IFA, ISE, IMFS, IDS,           S                 S
IUK
May/97                       5  IMFS, IEC, IFA, IUS, IUK            U                 U
March/98                     3  IMFS, IFA, IPA                      U                 U
March/99                     2  IFA, IDS                            S                 S
ICR
July/99                      2   IUES, IFA                          U                 S
Key.  DS:   Disbursement Specialist               PA:   Project Assistant
EC:   Economist                            PTS:  Property Tax Specialist
FA:   Financial Analyst                    SE:   Sanitary Engineer
IDS:  Institutional Development Specialist    UES:  Urban Environmental Specialist
ME:  Municipal Engineer                    US:   Urban Specialist
MFS: Municipal Finance Specialist          UK:   Unknown
(b) Staff-
Stage of Project Cycle                 ActualLatest Estimate
No.~~~~~ St. ek         US(O
Identification/Preparation              198       __
Appraisal/Negotiation                    60
Supervision                          _ 120
ICR                                      15
_Total                                   393
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies
E Sector Policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
E Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                OH  OSUOM  OAN  ONA
F Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
 Environmental                            OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
Social
O Poverty Reduction
O Gender
O Other (Please speci)
0 Private sector development
Z Public sector management                 O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)
The above ratings reflect the original project objectives.
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
N Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
M Overall                                           OHS OS   * u  O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS OS  * U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
The above ratings reflect the original project objectives.
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, November 24, 1993
2. Mid-Termn Review Mission Report, February 24, 1997
3. President's Memo, October 23, 1998
4. ICR Mission's Back-to-Office Report, August 24, 1999
5. Files Related to Section 4.3 and Annex 3.
costsO3.xis re_eval3.xls traffic3.xls
- 37 -



- 38 -



IBRD 23367R1
T,K*W  r-  ,T^  i        3.
_2JRKM*NSTAN ) -2~C~4      9 TA XS~4                                            PAKISTAN
SINDH SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN   S2Wor.l   tINTERMEDIATE CITIES FOR INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT
AFGHiTWAN        SUD. 
(                 v               PROJECT LOCATIONS              ROADS
K                             P' >U!tvf:;sX RAILROADS
./ 5                        - t - / o  CITIES                                              CANALS
*  _ _)                  W_-                           30  PROVINCE CAPITAL             C  RIVERS
2      -                               NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IRAN_ l1                     INDIAToRjnr
__ _ _ _ _ _n_    . ,>                                                   To Sodiqobod  PUNJAB
2}  g  . SbehdDdkotha'lci
INDIA
/| | t / SINDH 
Daldue    t             )/
BALOCHISTAN
20~                               \     \        i\ \ a                                                             20'
~~~~~~~~~~ All>C       aEX                   Umerkt2sr
) /19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                        Ik                                  T6   \ \.. 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I> /  It -\ -,.h,4-h 
Arubian Sea         i       g        KllO~~~~~~~~~~MLEIfS o        20  30  40  80  100  Thbud=eon e2l /
APRIL 2000



