GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Czech Republic
Technical Support and Investment Project for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Project Document
August 1994
WLD
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
-the global environment in four areas: globat warming. pollution ot international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specitic information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 1 3484-CZ
Czech Republic
Technical Support and Investment Project for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Project Document
August 1994



l



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Czech Koruna 28.50 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BHL   =       Bratri Horakove, s.r.o. (Ltd.)
CEE   =       Central and Eastern Europe
CFC           Chlorofluorocarbon
CKD-C      =  CKD Compressors
CK    =       Czech Koruna
CR    =       Czech Republic
CSFR  =       Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
CTC           Carbon tetrachioride, a regulated substance
DOU   =       Document of Understandiig
GEF   =       Global Environment Facility
GET   =       Global Environment Trust
Fl     =      Financial Intermediary
FSU   =       Former Soviet Union
HCFC =        Hydrochliorofluorocarbon
HFC   =       Hydrofluorocarbon
ICB    =      Interinational Competitive Bidding
IPB    =       nvesticni a Postovni Banka
IS     =      Interinationial Shopping Procedures
LCB   =       Local Competitive Biddiig
LS    =       Local Shoppinig Procedures
MFMP =        Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol
MOE =         Czech Ministry of Environimenit
MP    =       Montreal Protocol on Substanices that Deplete the
Ozone Layer
MW    =       Megawatt
NBF           Not Bank-Finianlced
ODP   =       Ozone depleting potential
ODS   =       Ozone Depleting Substances
PAA   =       Project Administrationl Agreement
PCE   =       Perchloroetilylene
PIM    =      Project Implementationi Manual
PMU   =       Project Managemenit Unit
PU     =      Polyurethane
SOE           Statemilenit of Expenditures
STAP  =       Scientific and Technilcal Advisory Panel
TAG   =       Techilical Advisory Group
UNEP =        United Nations Environment Program
3R     =      Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 to December 31



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grantee:                                  Global Environment Trust
Country:                                  Czech Republic
Project Name:                             Technical Support and Investment Project for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
Grant Amount:                             US$2.3 million
Terms:                                    Grant
Onlending:                                Not applicable
Beneficiary:                              Czech  Ministry  of Environment and  sub-project
beneficiaries through a financial intermediary
Associated Bank Project:                  None. Stand-alone project
Financing Plan:                                        Local      Foreign        Total
Source                     (US$ Million)
GET Grant  1.466         0.844         2.3
TOTAL                                  2.3
Economic Rate of Return:                  Not calculated, though  substantial economic  and
environmental benefits
Bank Technical Advisor:                   Ken King (ENVGE)
Outside Technical Reviewers:              Mr. Robert Watson (STAP) and Mr. Art Fitzgerald
(Northern Telecom and Ozone Operations Resource
Group).



I



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
BACKGROUND
1.     The Vienna Convenltion for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (1987) (MP) are international environmental
agreements whicih call for the phaseout of substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer
(hereafter "regulated substances").  More than 100 countries representing over 95 percent of world
consumption of these regulated substances have ratified the Montreal Protocol and Vienna Convention.
The Montreal Protocol with its amendments and adjustments nlow mandates the complete phaseout of
production and consumption of a number of ozone depleting substances (ODS) in developed countries
by January 1, 1996. All industrialized countries in the world have undertaken comprehensive national
programs to develop cost-effective strategies to phase out the use of these substances in the various end-
user sectors. The largest family of ODS is chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and which are widely used in
various industrial applications includinig: domestic, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air
conditioninig, flexible and rigid insulation foam, and in numerous applications such as aerosol
propellants, and solvents, among others.
2.     The Czech Republic (CR), presently the largest producer and an important consumer of the
regulated substances in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), has been actively planning its ODS phaseout
strategy since 1991.  A comprehensive Country Program  for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances in the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic (CSFR) was undertaken, with Bank
support, in April 1992 and completed in November 1992 as part of an important regional study on
environmental issues in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE).  This study served as the basis for
establishinig the priorities for the Czech Government and for identifying key policy and regulatory
measures which would be required to support a cost effective phaseout, which would also minimize
disruptions to the industrial sectors which utilize ODS. The activities proposed for funding under this
Project are amonig those priority activities identified in the Country Program.
3.     In 1991, the former CSFR's consumption of regulated ODS was 3935 metric tons (t)
(equivalent to 3759 ozone depleting potential [ODP] weighted tons), which amounts to a per-capita
consumption of 0.22 kg. The Czech Republic accounted for 60 percent of the total consumption in the
former CSFR. The distribution of ODS consumption in the former CSFR was aerosols -- 1600 metric
tons (40.7%); refrigeration -- 1057 metric tons (26.9%); solvents -- 989 metric tons (25.1%); and foams
-- 289 metric toins (7.3%).
4.     Since 1991, the ODS consumption profile has changed due to the effects of market forces,
industrial restructuring, the regulatory environment, and general technological trends. Usage in the
aerosol and flexible foam sectors has been eliminated through the adoption of regulatory measures
supported by local market forces. Although precise 1993 data is unavailable, ODS consumption in that
year is estimated at about 1,430 tons, concentrated mainly in refrigeration (48.0% including a large
usage in servicing of used equipment), solvents (41.5%), and rigid foam production (10.5%). Thus the
Project will provide for the funding of key investment activities supporting ODS phaseout in
refrigeration and rigid foams, since the use of solvents is dispersed among a wide number of different
applications with no single large user as in the other sectors. In addition, existing regulations governing
the phaseout of CFCs in solvents will require an earlier phaseout than is feasible to be covered under
the project.



5.     Spolek Cheinical Works accounts for 100% of CFC production in the Czech Republic. Until
recently, production was approximately equal to Spolek's production capacity for CFCs which is about
2000 tons per year (t/y), mainly CFC-12 and smaller amounts of CFC-I 1, and CFC-I 13. Also, a
substantial amoul1t of carbon tetrachloride (CTC) (also a regulated substance) is generated as a by-
product of epichlorohydrine productioni at the counitry's only CFC production facility. A portion of the
CTC is used as one of two raw materials in the production of CFC.
6.     The Czech Republic is fully committed to the complete phaseout of the production and
consuL11ptioln  of regulated substances by 1996 as mandated by the Montreal Protocol and its
amendmenits. The formner CSFR was a signatory of the Montreal Protocol and Vienna Convention and
the Czech Republic has succeeded to the forner CSFR's ratification of the Montreal Protocol.
Altlhoughi the Czech Republic was designated a developed country under the Montreal Protocol, and is
therefore not eligible for finanlcial assistance from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol (MFMP), the fundinig mechanlism of the Montreal Protocol, it is nevertheless eligible
for Global Environlmenit Facility (GEF) fundinig under the Reduction of Ozone Layer Depletion
component.
RATIONALE FOR GEF INVOLVEMENT AND PROJECT ELIGIBILITY
7.     With the exception of Romaniia and the former Yugoslavia, countries from CEE and the former
Soviet Unioln (FSU) are not eligible for assistance from the MFMP. Nevertheless, the total production
and consumiiptioni of ODS in CEE and FSU is equal to that of all the developing countries (including
Chinia, lndia, Brazil and Thailand) whichi are eligible for MFMP assistance, and therefore represent an
opportuniity to achieve significanit global environment benefits through the adoption of cost effective
techniological intervenitionis.
8.     T'lhis Project has been developed and structured based on specific ODS phaseout requirements
in the Czech Republic (as outlined in the Country Program) and the general project eligibility criteria
guidelines of the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). Funding for this stratospheric
ozone layer protection project has been obtained from the GEF on the basis that the Czech Republic:
(a) is eligible for GEF assistance;
(b) is not classified as a developing country and is not eligible for funding from  the
Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol;
(c) lhas completed the preparation of a Country Program; and
(d) has unidertakenl to succeed to the former CSFR's ratification of the Vienna Convention and
Montreal Protocol.
9.     Thle Project, which consists of five sub-projects, is consistent with international efforts in the
field of ODS phaseout. The sub-projects are deemed to be effective and are essential interventions in
order to quickly and successfully phase out the use of the regulated substances. This project will be
the first comprehenisive and planned ODS phaseout program to be implemented in Eastern Europe.
GEF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.    The principal objective of the Project is to assist the Czech Republic in the phaseout of ODS
production and consumption in a cost effective manner by the year 1996, as mandated by the Montreal



-3-
Protocol and its amendmeints and adjustments. Specifically this Project will assist the Czech Republic
to:
(a) initiate the phaseout of the production of CFCs;
(b) phase-in the operation of a national network for refrigerant recovery/reclamation/recycling
(CFC- II and CFC- 12); and
(c) support applied engineering efforts to use ODS substitutes in manufactured goods (mainly
refrigeration and commercial/industrial cooling applications), thereby reducing both the
immediate and future needs for regulated substances.
GEF support will provide an incentive for the early adoption of ODS phaseout activities and capture
additional environmenital and economic benefits which would otherwise either be lost or delayed.
PROJECT ELIGIBILITY AND DETERMINATION OF SUB-PROJECT INCREMENTAL
COSTS
11.    This Project is the first and only ozone-related project to be funded during the pilot phase of
the GEF and there are therefore no precedents on matters of eligibility of the various sub-projects. On
this basis, it was decided to adopt the specific eligibility criteria developed for projects to be funded by
the MFMP. TIhe GEF Participants. whichi approved the funding of this Project, are also Parties to the
Montreal Protocol and most of them  are contributors to the MFMP. The application of the project
eligibility criteria assured a fair and consistenit assessment of the nature of activities which could be
funded and of the level of findinig (defined as incremental costs) which could be allocated. Incremental
costs, as defined by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, are the costs incurred by the participatiig
enterprise whichi would otherwise not have incurred in the absence of the Montreal Protocol. The sub-
projects proposed in this Project meet the project eligibility criteria established by the Parties to the
Montreal Protocol.
12.    The sub-projects were selected by the Czech Ministry of Environment from the list of potential
sub-projects whicih had been identified during the preparation of the Country Program. The sub-projects
were selected on the basis of their impact on ODS consumption, their potential for minimizing the
impact of ODS phaseout on the economy and their replicability in the Czech Republic and Central and
Eastern Europe. The participating enterprises were selected on the basis of their capacity to undertake
the sub-projects (such as for Ekotez and Kovosluzba), their technological leadership positions (such as
for Thermo-King-Frigera and Bratfi Horakove, s.r.o. (Ltd.)(BHL)) or their special situation within the
context of ODS production (such as Spolek, the only ODS producer in the Czech Republic) within the
country. The finanicial situation of the enterprises was verified during the course of project preparation,
and all participating enterprises anticipate improved cash flows and profitability over the life of the
project.
13.    The level of fundinig for each sub-project was determined on the basis of the incremental costs
at the sub-project level. Incremental cost may or may not be equal to the project cost, as this will
depend on whethier savings will accrue to the participating enterprises and which must be considered
in the determinationi of the final incremental cost.  Other factors which must be considered in
determining the sub-project incremental cost include, but are not limited to level of technology upgrade
achieved by the project, impact on production capacity and cost of substitute materials. For all the sub-
projects proposed as part of this Project, counterpart contributions have been made by the Participating
Enterprises in terns of time for the preparation of the project documents and, in most cases, in the



- 4 -
implementation of the sub-project, either through management time or through direct investment. This
will be reflected in the sub-grant agreement.
14.     Additional counterpart contributions are expected during the implementation phase of the
Project, and these are estimated at $300,000 and $1.55 million for Sub-projects 2 and 4, respectively.
The proposed level of funding represents a conservative but fair estimate of the incremental costs which
will be incurred by the Participating Enterprises. The assessment of incremental cost for the national
recycling scheme (Sub-project 2) is slightly different as it establishes a new business venture, which
does not presently exist. In this specific case, the incremental cost was determined on the basis of the
analysis of cash flows of all participants and GEF funding determined on the basis of ensuring an
adequate return on the investmenit for all those participating.
15.    It is therefore proposed that the Project cost of US$2.3 million be funded by the GEF under
its Reduction of Ozone Layer Depletion componient. Funds would be provided as a grant from the GEF
to the Czech Republic and chaninelled to the Participating Enterprises through a local financial agent.
The estimated costs are to be considered incremenital costs net of any potential savings. Overall Project
cost has been reduced by usling a reclamation process which makes use of the existing CFC production
equipment at Spolek Chemical Works. Proceeds of the granit will not be utilized for transfer payments,
such as taxes and duties.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COSTS
16.     The Project consists of five sub-projects. Comprehensive sub-project descriptions are provided
in the Techniical Aninlex. The sub-projects will consist of the following activities:
(a) Under sub-project I (Engineering Assistaiice for ODS Production Phaseout) the Czech
Republic will develop a strategy to shutdown CFC production by January 1, 1996 while
inininilzing the enviroiinmenital impact of excess amounts of carbon tetrachloride (CTC)
produced at Spolek Chemilical Works. Spolek produces up to 2000 t/y of CFC-12, with
smaller amounits of CFC-I I andl CFC-1 13 as by-products by Using CTC (also a regulated
substanice) as a raw material. The shutdowin of the CFC productioni operation will create
an imbalanlce in the productioni facility's plant material balance.  Presently, the only
alterniative available to the enterprise is to incinerate the excess CTC. This sub-project will
fuLid a study that will evaluate available methods of convertinig CTC to other marketable
materials, identify available methods of developing a raw material for producilig HFC-
I 34a. and make recomimlenidationis on whethier CTC can be used as raw materials in the
productioni of other hydiofluorocarbolns (HFCs) and hydrocliloroflluorocarbonis (HCFCs).
FuLnding for this sub-project aimouLIts to US$80,000 to cover the cost of an enginieerinig
study.
(b) Sub-project 2 (Desigin and Operationi of CFC  Refrigeranit Reclamation Facilities and
Establishmenlt of Refrigeranit Recovery Capacity in the National Network of Servicing
Companies) will establish a nationlal refrigerationi recovery/reclamation/recycling  (3R)
programi in the Czech Republic. It will be developed in two phases, with the first phase
focusinig on the development of a comprellenlsive plan and program  for recovery, the
establishmenit of the first reclamation facility at the Spolek Chemical Works and the
establishmenit of the training center with the participation of Union of Workers and
Organizationis in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning. The second phase consists of setting
up the nationiwide recovery network, with the participation of Ekotez and Kovosluzba.
Fundilig for this sub-project amounlts to US$1.04 million to cover the cost of reclamation



equipment, to provide an incentive for the cost of recovery equipment and to provide
training to the service technicians.
Phase I of this sub-project will consist of the following:
Establishment of the first reclamation plant (for CFC-1 I and CFC-12) at Spolek
Chemical Works including reclamation equipment (tank, pumps, boiling tank, etc...),
laboratory equipment (gas chromatograph, scales and testers) and cylinder handling
equipment for a total cost of US$253,000;
Establishmenit of the training center (recovery units, testing kits, etc...), research visits
to two European recycling centers, the establishment of a training program for the
refrigeration technicians and a public information campaign for a total cost of
US$ 138,000;
Phase 2 of this sub-project will consist of the following:
Establishmenit of a collection site (for all recovered materials) and reclamation unlit
(mainly for HCFC-22) close to the Prague metropolitan area including testing equipment
(gas chromatograph, pumps, testing equipment) at a cost of about US$169,000;
Purchase of 2000 empty gas cylinders (including color coding system) for use in the 3R
network at a cost of US$140,000;
Retrofitting of 4 vehicles for establishment of extraction and collection of recovered
material at a cost of US$90,000;
Finiancial incentive of about US$400 for the purchase of 500 recovery units (average
cost of unit about US$1,000) by the servicing companies for a total of US$200,000.
The counterpart financing to be provided by the servicing companies will amount to
over US$300,000;
Provision of a reserve of US$50,000 to cover potential operating losses (due to start up
of the 3R network) of the reclamation center at Spolek Chemical Works. The reserve
was determined on the basis of a cash flow analysis and represents an amount which
would cover part of the operational losses should very small amount of CFCs be
recovered.
The logistics of the 3R network have been analyzed by the participating enterprises (Spolek
Chemical Works, Ekotez, Kovosluzba and Union of Refrigeration Technician). The proposed
flow of materials and of funds have been fully outlined in a Document of Understanding signed
by all the participants.
(c) Sub-2roiect 3 (Introduction of Non-ODS Refrigerants in the Commercial. Industrial and
Refrigerated Transport Sectors) will phase out CFCs used in commercial, industrial and
transport refrigeration systems.  The project involves two participants, Thermo-King-
Frigera and CKD  Compressors (CKD-C).  Thermo-King-Frigera, a manufacturer of
commercial and industrial refrigeration systems, will: convert its existing models of
transport cooling systems from  CFC-12 to HFC-134a; develop retrofit techniques for
existing commercial cooling systems it has manufactured and prepare a retrofit manual.
CKD-C will, with the technical assistance of Thermo-King-Frigera, participate in a pilot
program  and will retrofit a centrifugal chiller and screw compressor used as part of a



- 6 -
municipal heat pump installation. The project will result in the prototype production of
HFC-134a transport refrigeration units, and establish retrofit techniques for existing
commercial and industrial refrigeration equipment now operating on CFC-12. Funding for
this sub-project amounts to US$464,000 to cover the incremental costs of conversion which
include engineering and design work, manufacture of prototypes, purchase of leak and
other testing equipment, recycling machines and costs of test retrofits;
(d) Sub-Proiect 4 (Introduction of Non-ODS Insulation Technologies in Cold Room Panel
Manufacturing) will introduce low-ODS and non-ODS foaming technologies to companies
in the Czech Republic, through the demonstration of available technologies and the training
of manufacturers through technical seminars. The project includes the development of
demonstration technology for the production of selected products using CFC-free foam at
the BHL company. The first step will replace 50 percent of the CFC-1 I with water in the
foam products which have not been converted. This step also includes the set-up of a
small testing facility where different reduced CFC-foam formulations can be studied. The
second and third steps will move from low-pressure (LP) blowing to high-pressure (HP)
blowing equipment (or modification of the HP equipment). Finally, technical seminars will
be organized, and documentation and consultant services will be provided for other
producers. Funding for this sub-project is US$363,000 to cover the incremental costs of
equipment, laboratory construction and will also support the training component. The
availability of the testing facilities for other companies to use will be ascertained through
the Sub-grant Agreement which is to be signed between BHL and the Financial
Intermediary. BHL has spent close to US$2 million to upgrade its level of foam blowing
technology over the last three years; and
(e) Sub-proiect 5 (Set-up of a Project Management Unit (PMU) will set up an ODS Phaseout
Proiect Management unit (PMU) to be supported by a Technical Advisor' Group (TAG).
The PMU will coordinate the implementation of the Project, oversee procurement and
disbursement for sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4 in compliance witlh World Bank guidelines,
and in close cooperation with the    lnvesticni a Postovni Banka (IPB), supervise
project activities according to the requirements of the World Bank and MOE.  As
necessary, the PMU will arrange for technical assistance and consultants to assist in project
implementation, and provide support to facilitate cooperation among government
institutions and the producers and consumers of ODS.  Finally, the PMU  will be
responsible for calling meetings of the TAG, which will be responsible for providing
technical support to ODS consumers and producers in the implementation of investment
sub-projects aimed at ODS Phaseout. Funding for this sub-project amounts to US$300,000
to cover salaries, office equipment and the cost of hiring international consultants for
supervision and review during implementation of the sub-projects.
17.    The incremental cost of the five sub-projects has been determined to be US$2.3 million, which
represents only a small fraction of the national incremental costs which will be assumed by the Czech
Republic economy in phasing out ODS.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
18.    The Ministry of Environment (MOE), through the Project Management Unit (PMU), will act
as general program coordinator for the Project. The MOE will liaise with other ministries on policies
and industrial strategy issues. The PMU will be established by the MOE approximately two months
before the Grant becomes effective. Moreover, since the PMU is a government entity, the Investicni



a Postovni Banka (IPB) will not be responsible for on-lending to the PMU under sub-project 5. Instead,
disbursement for this sub-project will be made directly to the PMU.
19.    The Investicni a Postovni Banka (IPB), which has worked successfully with MOE in the past,
has been selected as a financial intermediary (FI) to assist the MOE with the implementation of the
Project. IPB will assume the day-to-day responsibilities of Project execution including supervision of
procurement, disbursement, and supervision of sub-project implementation for sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and
4. IPB has undergone basic training on World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and will
be further assisted by the Bank to successfully launch the Project. A Project Administration Agreement
(subject to Bank review and clearance) will be signed by IPB and MOE. The Project Administration
Agreement (PAA) confirms the responsibility of the MOE and IPB with respect to the implementation
of the four sub-projects. IPB will also undertake to establish separate sub-grant agreements with each
of the participating enterprises. Each sub-project proponent has prepared a Sub-project Document whicih
will form the basis of a Sub-Grant Agreement between IPB and the participating enterprise. The Sub-
grant Agreement will include reporting provisions. IPB will review the progress of the sub-projects and
make recommendations on disbursements to suppliers and consultants. The standard Bank disbursement
procedures will be followed, with established limits on initial deposit and replenishment levels,
statements of expenditures and Bank review levels. For its services, IPB will be paid a fee of 2.72
percent on sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4. The fee will be paid as follows: 1 percent upon signature of Sub-
grant Agreement with the participating enterprises, I percent pro-rata to disbursements and the final 0.72
percent upon reception by the Bank, through the PMU, of the final report upon project completion.
20.    A Proiect Implementation Manual (PIM) has been prepared to provide the relevant Bank
guidelines on procurement, disbursements, use of consultants, financial reporting, sample bidding
documents and other project-specific documents.  Furthermore, because the 3R scheme involves
operationial and logistical challenges, the Bank initiated the preparation of a Document of Understanding
(DOU) outlining the responsibility of each party in the scheme, the incentive structure, and the materials
and funds flow mechanisms. All parties involved in the 3R sub-project have signed this DOU.
PROJECT BENEFITS
21.    The project's major benefit will be to assist the Czech Republic to achieve its objective of
completely phasing out the use of ODS as early as is technically feasible. It is expected that the project
will contribute to the national objective to reduce ODS consumption by over 1000 tons per year by the
end of the secoiid year of project implementation. In addition, implementing the 3R sub-project and
the refrigeration-sector sub-project will reduce ODS emissions which originate during servicing of
refrigeration and air conditioning systems by as much as an additional 400 tons per year (t/y), and will
extend the useful life of equipment utilizing ODS which otherwise would be discarded for lack of ODS
for maintenanice purposes. It is expected that the production of ODS can be successfully phased out
within the same time frame, and that the phaseout of ODS production will result in a reduction of 2000
tons per year (t/y) of ODS production.
22.    The Project consists of several sub-projects which will contribute to maximizing the useful life
of equipment which rely on the availability of CFC for their continued use. This will contribute to
reducing the country's economic cost of phasing out the use of the regulated substances.
23.    Another significant benefit is the replicability of project preparation and implementation
mechanisms based on the processing and implementation of this first ozone-related project to be
presented under the GEF. The ultimate benefit of this project will include accelerated phaseout of ODS
in many CEE countries which may initiate and implement similar policies and projects.



-8 -
PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
24.    The risk associated with insufficient institutional capacity should be adequately offset by the
establishment of the PMU and TAG to assist in the development of industry projects and programs for
ODS phaseout. The work of the PMU and TAG will be essential to help industry make the transition
to ODS substitutes instead of to importation of ODS following the cessation of domestic CFC
production at Spolek.
25.    Management structures and ownerships of several of the companies which would be assisted
under this project have recently changed. The participating enterprises have survived the recent changes
and are preparing for future business developments. One of the firms has established a joint-venture
with a foreign company while another is discussing this possibility. Nevertheless, there will be a
residual risk associated with the potential of declining financial health of some of the participating
enterprises. The participating enterprises were selected on the basis of criteria described earlier. The
participating enterprises have good prospects for increased profitability based on their position within
their respective industrial sectors. This will be ascertained prior to negotiations by the Fl through the
review of financial statements (actual and projections) to ensure adequate cash flows to cover operating
costs and the greater of depreciation or debt service requirements.  The level of technological
development made these enterprises the most suitable participants in the project.
26.    The sii-nultaneous implementation of a phaseout of ODS production and the use of the 3R
program is necessary to ensure that there is a minimal shortfall of CFCs for servicing existing
equipment. A shortfall could lead to increased production and/or stockpiling of new CFC-12, and/or
the early retirement of equipment at significant economic cost. Experience in national 3R programs is
limited to only a few countries, althoughi many are now under development. Initially, the amounts of
CFC recovered will be small, but the most important aspect of the program  is to provide adequate
incentive to the organizations providing servicing of existing equipment. Measures have also been
proposed to closely monitor the 3R scheme. This will be monitored closely in order to react to market
conditions (price and availability of CFC) which will influence the profitability (at all levels) of the 3R
program. Project risk is being mitigated by placing the financial risk with Spolek Chemical Works
which is capable of assuming the risk (very small in the context of the enterprise's overall activities),
and by ensurinig that the incentive to the servicing sector is sufficient to encourage widespread recovery
of CFC through maintenance activities. To further minimize the risks to Spolek, the Project makes
provisions to cover potential revenue shortfalls at Spolek for the first two years of operation of the 3R
program. The potential shortfall was conservatively calculated on the basis of a very low amount of
ODS recovered and of very poor quality.
27.    Anothier initial concerin was that the financial intermediary has not worked with the Bank in
the past.  They have recently undergone a training program  designed to provide them  with an
introduction to Bank procedures. The Bank will provide additional training as necessary to ensure
smooth project implementation, specially during the start-up phase.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2X.    Stratospheric Ozone Layer protection has been accorded high priority by the Government of
the Czech Republic as an important global environmental issue. A law on the control of ODS was
approved by Parliament in 1993. The legislation includes a tax of 100 Czech Korunas (approximately
US$3.5) on each kilogram of regulated substance produced or imported, and a prohibition of all imports
of ODS or products containing ODS to take effect on January 1, 1994. The law adopts the ODS
phaseout schedule of the Montreal Protocol and its amendments and adjustments and is fully consistent
with the provisions of the Montreal Protocol on limitations on trade in the regulated substances.



9-
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
29.    Sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4 will be subject to local environmental regulations and Bank project
environmental review procedure. The sub-projects consist of light industrial projects which have been
classified as category B on the basis of the Bank's project environmental classification system (OD
4.01) and based on previous classification of similar projects.
30.    The MOE has been requested to provide its environmental clearance of all the proposed
activities to be implemented by the Project by negotiations. The Project provides for resources to retain
the services of international consultants for supervision of project implementation, including health and
safety considerations.
ACTIONS TO BE AGREED
31.    The conditions of effectiveness are that the Project Administration Agreement between the
lnvesticni a Postovni Banka and MOE be signed, and that satisfactory staff be appointed to the PMU
and TAG as conditions of effectiveness of the grant.
Attachments
Washington D.C.
August 1994
I



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTM:ENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
SCHEDULE A
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Sub-Project Title     FINANCED    LOCAL   FOREIGN   PROPOSED   TOTAL
and Description      BY CZECH       (BY      (BY GEF)       GEF       COSTS
GEF)                 GRANT_ __
Sub-project I:              0.000        0.000      0.080       0.080      0.080
Engineering Assistance
for ODS Production
Phaseout
Sub-project II: Design      0.300        0.740      0.300       1.040       1.340
and Operation of a CFC
Refrigerant Reclamation
Facilities and
Establishment of
Refrigerant Recovery
Capacity in the National
Network of Servicing
Companies
Sub-project III:            0.000        0.300      0.164       0.464       0.464
Introduction of Non-ODS
Refrigerants in the
Commercial, Industrial
and Refrigerated
Transport Sectors
Sub-project IV:              1.548       0.063      0.300       0.363       1.911
Introduction of non-ODS
Insulation Technologies
in Cold Room Panel
Manufacturing
Sub-project V: Project       0.000       0.300      0.000       0.300       0.300
Management Unit
Financial Intermediary       0.000       0.053      0.000       0.053       0.053
Fee (2.72% on Sub-
projects 1-4)
TOTAL COSTS                  1.848       1.456      0.844       2.300      4.148



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
SCHEDULE B
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Procurement
1.     Procurement of goods, works, and services will be in accordance with relevant Bank Guidelines.
Investicni a Postovnf Banka, the selected local Financial Intermediary (FI), will be responsible that
procurement under the project follows Bank guidelines. It will help enterprises arrange procurement
(international and local); where necessary, procurement should be handled by qualified procurement
agencies authorized by the Government and acceptable to the Bank. For International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) (although none is anticipated in this project at this juncture), documents would be prepared
following the Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and domestic preference for goods manufactured in the
Czech Republic would apply according to procurement guidelines of the Bank.
2.     The local Fl will satisfy itself that the goods, works, and services to be purchased are for the
investment sub-projects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that the grant recipient has followed
efficient and competitive procurement practices in accordaace with those of the minimum thresholds
agreed (see following list):
Goods and Works
(a) contracts over US$300,000 equivalent would be subject to international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures;
(b) contracts between US$50,000 and US$300,000 would be awarded on the basis of the Bank's
international shopping procedures (IS) where price quotations would be obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers from at least three countries;
(c) contracts below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of local shopping procedures
(LS) where quotations would be obtained from at least three qualified suppliers; and
(d) for civil works, contracts would be awarded on the basis of local shopping procedures.
(e) for proprietary packages, contracts would be awarded on the basis of negotiations with the
technology supplier.
Consultants
Consultants retained under the project would be recruited in accordance with the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank" published by the World Bank in August 1981. It is
estimated that approximately 20 consultant contracts with an average cost of US$20,000 will be
processed over the life of the project'.
The Following contracts and bid packages will be subject to prior review:
(a) ICB packages2;
1/     The type of consulEancy work required for this Project consists of hiring highiv specialized consultants on an as-
needed basis for specific consultations and project supervision assignments. These types of assignments are best
carried out through small individual contracts.
The provision for ICB is included in the procurement arrangements solely on a routine basis. No ICB
procurement is expected in the project.



- 2 -
(b) all contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more; and
(c) for selection of individual consultants, where the Bank will review the short list and terms
of reference, generic letter of invitation, and award decisions.
All contracts below US$100,000 equivalent financed through this grant will be subject to ex-post review
by the Bank in order to verify compliance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurementr Uelwd                                Total
Proje  Elementr                                                      IC8    LC8        Other             NMF                 Cost
1. Works
1.1 Minor building and facility services retrofits              -       -         0.050a             -                0.050
2. Good                                                                                     b
2.1 Equipment (including installation costs)                    -       -         1.250              -                 0.250
2.2 IncenBtive for purchase of recovery unit                    -       -        0.200               -                 0.200
2.3 Matcrials (for testing purposes)                            -       -         0.050b             -                 0.050
3. Consslrancses
3.1 Engineering Studies                                         -       -         0.080C             -                 0.080
3.2 Technical Assistance (including consulunts hired by         -       -         0.317C             -                 0.317
Project Management Unit and Technical Advisory Group)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                             d
4.1 Financial Intermediary Fee                                   -      -         0.053              -                 0.053
4.2 Engineenng/designworkundertakenbyparticipating               -      -         0. 150             -                 0.150
enterprises
4.3 Budget of the Project Management Unit                        -      -         0.100l             -                 0.100
4.4 Provision for 3R Scheme (reserve)                            -      -         0.050g             -                 0.050
Total                                                       -       -         2.300              -                2.300
NBF: Not Bank-Financed
a.    Funds will cover the costs of minor civil works required to retrofit existing facilities.
b.    Consists of the following: Inteniational Shopping: US$0.500 million: and
Local Shopping: USS1000 million.
c.    Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines: 'Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency Washington. D.C.. August, 1981'.
d.    Fee for services provided by the financial intermediary (2.72 percent of value of sub-projects 1. 2. 3. and 4) will be paid in accordance with
agreed schedule: I percent upon Sub-Grant Agreement signaturc, I percent pro-rata to disbursements and 0.72 percent upon project completion.
e.    Funds to cover costs which will be incurred directly be the participating enterprises including in-house engineering and design work. Payments
to be made directly to participating enterprises in accordance with sub-project cost estimates.
f.    Funds will cover the costs of office equipment. salaries and other operational expenses of the Project Management Unit (PMU) for a period of
three years. Disbursemcnts will be made on the basis of an agreed budget between the PMU and Financial Intermediary.
g.    Funds held as reserve to support operations of recovery/reclamation/recycling scheme. Disbursemcnts to be made on the basis of a yearly
review of the funding mechanism.
h.    Additional funding of about USS0.3 million will be provided by the servicing enterprises who will participate in the recycling scheme.
i.    All items are financed by the Bank.



- 3 -
3.      The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each category, and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each category:
Category               Amount of the GET Grant          Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated (Expressed in SDR            to be Financed
Equivalent)
Goods, Works and Services                     60,000                  100 percent of foreign
for Part A. 1 of the Project                                       expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost)
Goods, Works and Services                    780,000                 100 percent of foreign
for Part A.2 of the Project                                        expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
__________ __________ __________co st)
Goods, Works and Services                    350,000                  100 percent of foreign
for Part A.3 of the Project                                        expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost)
Goods, Works and Services                    280,000                  100 percent of foreign
for Part A.4 of the Project                                         expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
________________________________   co st)
Goods, Works and Services                   230,000                   100 percent of foreign
for Part A.5 of the Project                                         expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost)
Total                          |           1,700,000



-4-
B. Disbursement
4.     The Project is expected to be disbursed within a period of two calendar years. The Trustee will
disburse against 100 percent of eligible foreign expenditures and 100 percent of eligible local expenditures
(excluding taxes and duties) for grant financed goods and services contra'ts. Disbursement procedures
have been established as follows:
(a) Between the World Bank. the Ministry of Environment, and the Investicni a Postovni Banka:
The Trustee will deposit an initial amount up to US$300,000 to a Special Account which the
MOE will open in Investicni a Postovni Banka. The minimum amount for replenishment
of the Special Account will be US$50,000. Requests for reimbursement will be based on
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts with a value of up to US$50,000. The
World Bank will accept requests for direct payment to the supplier of goods or services (not
through a special account) only above a minimum of US$25,000. Terms, conditions and
schedule for disbursement for sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4 must be included in the sub-grant
agreement between the Jnvesticni a Postovni Banka and the enterprise; and
(b) Between lnvesticni a Postovni Banka and the Sub-grant ReciDient: Up to US$100,000 per
contract, Investicni a Postovni Banka will disburse to the sub-grant recipient for eligible
expenses without prior review by the World Bank. Disbursement will follow the guidelines
established in the Disbursement Handbook published by the World Bank in 1992. Details
of the disbursement procedures will be included in the initial Disbursement Letter to be
issued by the World Bank.
Expenses incurred for activities of the Fl will be covered through the Special Account.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
FY94               FY95                   FY96
-(US$ thousand)-
Annual                        200                1500                   600
Cumulative                    200                1700                   2300



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
SCHEDULE C
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare:                          7 months
(b)   Prepared By:                                    Bilal Rahill, ENVGC
Mark Kosmo, EC2EE
(c)   First Presentation to the Bank:                 August 10, 1992
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure:                    August 1993
(e)   Negotiations:                                  July 1994
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  October 1994
(g)   Expected Date of Completion:                    June 1996



CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
SCHEDULE D
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Planned Date of Signature:                                   August 1994
Planned Date of Effectiveness:                               October 1994
Sub-project 1 for Engineering Assistance for ODS Phaseout:   By December 1994
Sub-project 2 for Design and Operation of a CFC Refrigerant Reclamation Facility and
Establishment of Refrigerant Recovery Capabilities in the National Network of
Servicing Companies:
Phase I -- Establishment of Reclamation Plant
at Spolek, and Training Center                 By December 1994
Phase 11 -- Pilot program for Collection, and Evaluation  By June 1995
Phase Il -- Collection and Recycling of Refrigerants     1994-1996, and
Thereafter
Sub-project 3 for Introduction of non-ODS Refrigeration Technologies in the Commercial
Industrial and Refrigerated Transport Sectors:
Sub-component A -- Redesign of Open Drive Compressors   December 1994
Sub-component B -- Retrofit of Industrial Cooling System  June 1995
Sub-component C -- Conversion of Test-Facilities to Non-ODS
Technology                           December 1995
Sub-component D -- Preparation of Technical Manual     December 1995
Sub-project 4 for Introduction of Non-ODS Insulation Technologies
in Cold Room Panel Manufacturing:             October 1995
Sub-project 5 for Assistance to the Project Management Unit:  1994-1996
Expected Date of Completion:                                 June 1996



Technical Annex
Page I
CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF TECHNICAL ANNEX AND ATrACHMENTS
Technical Annex:               1. Summnary Table of Sub-project Components
2. Description of Sub-projects
Attachments:                   A. Document of Understanding



Technical Annex
l                                                                                               Page 2
CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. SUMMARY TABLE
Sub-project Title       Participating    Ownership      Sub-project       Type of ODS        Sub-      Proposed
and Description         Enterprises                      Impact         Used/Produced       project     GEF
Costs      Grant'
l                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US$  (US$)
l                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Millon)
1. Engineering Assistance  Spolek                State     Phased           CFC-1 1                 0.080       0.080
for ODS Production                                         shutdown of      CFC-12
Phaseout                                                   ODS Production   CFC-1 13
(2000 tlyr)     CTC
2. Design and Operation of   Spolek, Ekotez,   State and    Recycling of up   CFC-I                  1.340      1.040
a CFC Refrigerant           Kovosluzba, and     Private    to 200 tlyr of    CFC-12
Reclamation Facility and    Association of                 CFC-1 1 and
Establishment of            Refrigeration                  CFC-12
Refrigerant Recovery        Technicians                    refrigerants
Capabilities in the National
Network of Servicing
Companies
3. Introduction of non-ODS   Thermo-King-       Private    Phaseout of 110   CFC-12                 0.464       0.464
Refrigeration Technologies    Frigera                      tlyr of CFC-12
in the Commercial
Industrial and Refrigerated
Transport Sectors
4. Introduction of non-ODS   BHL, s.r.o.        Private     Phaseout of     CFC-I 1                  1.911      0.363
Insulation Technologies in                                 over 80 t/yr of
Cold Room Panel                                             CFC-II
Manufacturing
5. Project Management       Project                                                                 0.300       0.300
Unit                        Management
l _________________         Unit, M OE
Others: Financial                                                                                    0.053      0.053
Intermediary Fee
(2.72 percent on Sub-
projects 1-4)
TOTAL                     |                                                                          4.148      2.300
1/ Includes Contingency



Technical Annex
Page 3
CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
TECHNICAL ANNEX
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.     This Project consists of an investment and a technical assistance component. This technical
annex provides: (a) a sunmnary table of sub-projects; and (b) a detailed description of sub-project
components. The Document of Understanding that has been signed for the refrigeration/recycling/
reclamation scheme (Sub-project) is presented in Attachment A. Additional reference documentation on
the organizational aspects of the Project and on general World Bank guidelines have been included in a
Project Implementation Manual which has been provided to the Project Management Unit and local
financial agent.
2.     The design and proposed implementation scheme of this Project have evolved from the findings
and recommendations which emerged from the Country Program for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting
Substances. There are two (2) underlying strategies which have guided the elaboration of this Project.
The first is that technical and financial assistance is most needed, and will have the most long-term impact
on cost minimization to the Czech Republic's economy, in sectors where significant early retirement of
goods and equipment could occur due to non compatibility with alternative substances. This is
particularly applicable to the refrigeration/air conditioning industry, from which stems the significant
importance of the 3R (recovery, reclaim and recycle) sub-project. Such a sub-project carries a higher
level of risk in the short term but bears the most benefits in the medium and long term. The introduction
of a national 3R network is also a strategic step in phasing out the production of ODS. The establishment
of a Technical Advisory Group will also foster early adoption of non-ODS technologies in sectors where
significant ODS can be phased out but which cannot be reached by direct investment through this project,
because they do not meet the general project eligibility criteria. This consists in the second strategy.
This approach will maximize both the global (through rapid phaseout of ODS) and national (through the
facilitation of technological upgrade) benefits.
Investment Component
Sub-project 1: EnFineering Assistance for ODS Production Phaseout
Background
3.     Spolek Chemical Works is the oldest chemical company in the Czech Republic. Its product line
consists of basic inorganic and organic chemical agents (including CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113 and
carbon tetrachloride), synthetic resins, organic dyes and intermediates, and surfactants (industrial auxiliary
agents, and household and cosmetic products including aerosol sprays). Annual sales are approximately
US$100 million. Production of CFCs accounts for only a small portion of the revenues (less than I %)
and of the chemicals produced by Spolek. Nonetheless, CFC production has been important to the
company. Spolek can produce up to 2000 t/y of CFC-12 (from a carbon tetrachloride [CTC] feedstock
produced at the plant), with small amounts of CFC- I and CFC-1 13 as by-products. Spolek is able to
produce the above-mentioned products at less than half the price of West European producers, primarily
due to lower labor costs, low capital depreciation costs (given the age of the equipment) and a relatively
low overhead mark-up. The production break-even point has been estimated at 600-700 tons per year.



Technical Annex
Page 4
Sub-project Objective
4.     The objective of this project is to phase out the production of CFC-I 1 and CFC- 12 (2,000 tons
per annum) and carbon tetrachloride (5,000 tons per annum) at Spolek Chemical Works and develop a
comprehensive strategy for CTC use or disposal.
Sub-Project Description
5.     The shutdown of CFC production in accordance with the Montreal Protocol and its amendments
will create an imbalance in the production facility's plant material balance. CTC, which is produced as
a by-product of epichlorohydrine production and used as raw material, will be produced in excess
quantities. Presently, the only alternative available to the enterprise is to incinerate the excess CTC.
This sub-project will fund a study which is to provide a comprehensive strategy for alternative uses of
the CTC, or discussion of proper disposal methods.
6.     Recently, the Czech government enacted a CFC production and import tax of 100 Czech Korunas
(CK) (equivalent to US$3.5) per kilogram of ODS. Spolek's 1994 production was scheduled to drop to
680 MT of CFCs and to 640 MT in 1995, but with the added tax, there is increased incentive to enact
a recycling campaign to speed the production phaseout, as the recycled materials are not subject to the
tax.
7.     This sub-project will assist Spolek Chemical Works in determining the most suitable modification
of the production process at Usti-nad-Labem. In accordance with the restrictions on the manufacture of
ODS mandated by the Montreal Protocol, and at the request of the Czech government, Spolek must
determine the optimal method of compliance without seriously impacting its other operations. Spolek
currently uses carbon tetrachloride and hydrofluoric acid from a propylene chlorination process. This
sub-project involves a feasibility study by international experts into the most cost-effective modification
of this production, possibly involving the production of the ozone-friendly refrigerants, which require
hydrofluoric acid as a feedstock. The project includes a small market survey, and will address the
problem of carbon tetrachloride disposal or use. This sub-project, therefore, consists of the following
tasks:
Task 1: Market Survey of Projected European CFC Substitute Production/Consumption
Patterns;
*  Task 2: Identify Alternative ODS Production Phaseout Strategies;
*  Task 3: Evaluate Potential for Production of Other Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and HCFCs
Using Propylene, CTC, or Perchloroethylene (PCE) as Raw Materials; and
*  Task 4: Development of Feasible CFC- 1, CFC-12 and CTC Phaseout Strategy at Spolek.
8.     In the next five years, Spolek plans to spend about CK1.8 billion on necessary environmentally-
related projects (e.g., sewage treatment plant, refuse destructing plant, and stockyard). Funding for this
sub-project will assist in the development of future company-wide environmental responsibility programs.
Estimated Sub-project Costs
9.     The total cost of this sub-project is US$80,000, listed below by task as necessary for the
production of the feasibility report.



Technical Annex
Page 5
COSTS OF CONSULTANTS
Task       No. of Man-days    Costs (US)_
Task 1             20              20,000
Task 2             15              15,000
Task 3             30              30,000
Task 4             15              15,000
TOTAL               80             80,000
Project Implementation
10.    This project will be implemented by Spolek Chemical Works over a three month period.
Sub-project 2: Design and Oeration of CFC Refriierant Reclamation Facilities and
Establishlnent of Refrigerant Recovery Capacity in the National Network of Servicin! Companies
Background
11.    In the Czech Republic the most significant CFC use sector is refrigeration and air-conditioning.
For 1993, it is estimated that the refrigeration and air-conditioning sector consumed 687 Metric Tons,
or 48 percent of total national ODS consumption.2 It has been estimated that 3.0 million domestic
refrigerators and 0.5 million home freezers are presently in use in the Czech Republic. Servicing and
repair on existing systems requires approximately 700 t/y of CFCs.
12.    The servicing of domestic refrigerators and freezers is performed by a network of servicing
companies which are supplied by Kovosluzba, the former state-owned distributor of refrigeration supplies
and gas, and Ekotez. The national servicing network has now been privatized and most servicing centers
are now owner-operated. However, Kovosluzba has maintained its role as the dominant wholesale
organization for refrigerants, equipment, spare parts and as a training organization for service technicians
(in association with the Union of Refrigeration Servicing Technicians of the Czech Republic) and Ekotez
has established itself as a key player in this sector.
13.    The Czech Republic will establish a comprehensive national recovery/reclamation/recycling
program for CFC refrigerants to meet short-term needs for CFCs after the production ban takes effect
on January 1, 1996. The design and implementation of this program to provide service to these units will
2/     A rough estimate of 1,430 tons of CFC consumption for the Czech Republic in 1993 is
derived as follows from the 1991 figures in paragraph 4 of the main report: (i) Subtract
consumption of CFCs in the aerosol subsector (1600 metric tons) and flexible foam subsector
(39 tons) since consumption in these sectors has been eliminated; (ii) Subtract 370 tons of
CFCs in refrigeration to reflect the Slovak share based on data provided by refrigeration
enterprises in Slovakia, but assume no net reduction in the Czech Republic's CFC use in
refrigeration since 1991; and (iii) Subtract 40% of CFC use in rigid foams and solvents to
reflect Slovak share, but assume no net reduction in the Czech Republic's CFC use in these
two subsectors since 1991. This yields a distribution of aerosols -- 0 tons (0.0%);
refrigeration -- 687 tons (48.0%); solvents -- 593 tons (41.5%); and rigid foams -- 150 tons
(10.5%).



Technical Annex
Page 6
coordinate the phaseout activities of three groups responsible for chemical production, distribution and
servicing. Kovosluzba and Ekotez are responsible for wholesale refrigerant sales, equipment, spare parts
and training of service technicians. The actual servicing is performed by a network of servicing
companies whose technicians are members of the Union of Refrigeration Technicians, who are responsible
for the recovery aspects of servicing. Spolek Chemical Works and Ekotez will handle chemical
reclamation and recycling.
Sub-project Objectives
14.    The objective of this sub-project is to establish a national CFC refrigerant gas recovery network,
and to train refrigeration and air-conditioning service personnel. Training will focus on the use of ODS
recovery equipment to eliminate ODS emissions during servicing of refrigeration and air conditioning
systems.
Sub-project Description
15.    This sub-project establishes a CFC refrigerant gas recovery and reclamation unit at Spolek
Chemical Works whose CFC manufacturing operations are well suited for conversion to CFC
reclamation. In this sub-project, Spolek will continue to use part of the CFC production facility to
recycle CFCs, and then as production is terminated, new equipment will be purchased to expand
recycling. The other participant in the project, Ekotez, is a private Czech company that distributes
refrigeration system components. Ekotez will be responsible for the organization and operation of a
second refrigerant recovery center near Prague and servicing routes that will utilize existing distribution
routes and equipment in order to minimize expenditures.
16.    Phase I will focus on all preparatory arrangements necessary to ensure the proper functioning
of the entire project including compiling experiences of other countries, cooperating in the preparation
of legislative regulations (if required) and implementation of the incentive system to encourage recycling
(as per Document of Understanding). The first reclamation facility will be established as Spolek chemical
Works, the training center will also be established with the participation of the Union of Workers and
Organizations in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning. The anticipated input of used refrigerant is
estimated at 150-200 t/year, in the third year of implementation. Phase I of this sub-project will consist
in the following:
 Establishment of the first reclamation plant (for CFC-l 1 and CFC-12) at Spolek Chemical
Works including reclamation equipment (tank, pumps, boiling tank, etc...), laboratory
equipment (gas chromatograph, scales and testers) and cylinder handling equipment for
a total cost of US$253,000;
* Establishment of the training center (recovery units, testing kits, etc...), research visits
to two European recycling centers, the establishment of a training program for the
refrigeration technicians and a public information campaign for a total cost of
US$138,000.
17.    Phase II is comprised of the following components:
. Establishment of a collection site (for all recovered materials) and reclamation unit
(mainly for HCFC-22) close to the Prague metropolitan area including testing equipment
(gas chromatograph, pumps, other testing equipment) at a cost of about US$169,000;
* Purchase of 2000 empty gas cylinders (including color coding system) for use in the 3R
network at a cost of US$140,000;



Technical Annex
Page 7
. Retrofitting of 4 vehicles for establishment of extraction and collection of recovered
material at a cost of US$90,000;
* Financial incentive of about US$400 for the purchase of 500 recovery units (average cost
of unit about US$1,000) by the servicing companies for a total of US$200,000. The
counterpart financing to be provided by the servicing companies will amount to over
US$300,000;
* Provision of a reserve of US$50,000 to cover potential operating losses (due to start up
of the 3R network) of the reclamation center at Spolek Chemical Works. The reserve
was determined on the basis of a cash flow analysis and represents an amount which
would cover part of the operational losses should very small amnounts of CFCs be
recovered.
18.    Approximately 50 percent of all refrigerant recovery will be handled by trained repairnen and
the rest by regional mobile extraction stations. In the case of industrial equipment, these stations will
extract refrigerant directly at a user's location; in the case of household appliances, collection will occur
at local collection locations. Labels will be used to identify equipment from which CFC refrigerant has
been removed.
19.    Technician training will be conducted at the Vocational School Center in Kostelec nad Orlici,
which is used as a training and retraining center for the entire Republic. The program will be conducted
in cooperation with the Union of Refrigeration Technicians, which has 2,500 registered members. During
the training program, the vocational school students will be also be instructed in the new repair
procedures to prevent refrigerant emissions during servicing.
Project Costs and Implementation
20.    The cost for this sub-project totals US$1,040,000. The costs are broken down as follows:
Phase I    Project Initiation          June-December      US$391,0003
1994
Phase II   Pilot program, evaluation    1994-1995         US$649,000
Collect/recycle refrigerants    1994-1996
3/     Approximately $145,000 in retroactive financing will be provided for training and rebates for
CFC recovery units.



Technical Annex
Page 8
Sub-project 3: Introduction of Non-ODS Refrigerants in the Conimercial. Industrial and
Refrieerated Transport Sectors
Background
21.    The Research Institute of Refrigeration Engineering (RIRE) is now part of the Czech Republic's
largest manufacturer of commercial transport refrigeration equipment -- Thermo-King-Frigera, s.r.o..
This company is also the only producer of equipment for refrigerated transport for truck and trailer units
which supplied the former Soviet Union. Frigera recently entered into a joint venture with the largest
refrigerated transport company in the world (the American-based Thermo-King), which owns a 69 percent
share in the joint venture. This has brought substantial stability to the former Frigera which had suffered
two consecutive years of operating losses.
22.    Thermo-King-Frigera is the largest commercial and transport refrigeration company in the Czech
Republic, with revenues are approximately CK109.5 million (US$3 million) in 1992. It produces open
drive and semi-hermetic compressors, and designs and installs transport refrigeration units. Thermo-
King-Frigera has an environmental test chamber for refrigerated trucks (one of only 11 in Europe and
the only one in Eastern Europe), as well as a research institute which is the coordinating body for this
project.
23.    CKD Compressors (CKD-C) is a state-owned joint stock enterprise involved in the production
of industrial refrigeration systems, including the manufacture of compressors, small heat exchangers and
pressure vessels, as well as complex cooling circuits and centrifugal and rotary screw chillers. CKD-C
plans to retrofit their refrigeration units to use HFC-134a as refrigerant.
Sub-project Objective
24.    The objective of this sub-project is to establish prototype HFC- 134a transport refrigeration units,
and to establish retrofit techniques for existing commercial and industrial refrigeration equipment.
Sub-project Description
25.    The purpose of this project is to assist Thermo-King-Frigera in modifying its product line for
use with alternate refrigerants such as HFC-134a. The project involves two participants, Thermo-King-
Frigera and CKD Compressors. The proposed sub-component elements to be implemented by Thermo-
King-Frigera will develop refrigerated transport systems using HFC-134a, retrofit a CFC-12 industrial
cooling system to HFC-134a (demonstrations at CKD-C), convert Thermo-King-Frigera's test facilities
to a non-ODS alternative; and preparation of a technical manual for the retrofit of industrial cooling
equipment.  The project results will be used by producers of refrigeration systems and by the
organizations providing for the servicing, maintenance and repair of refrigerating systems.
26.     Sub-component A. Thermo-King-Frigera will design its open drive CFC-12 compressors to HFC-
134a technology. These units are used to manufacture block cooling units for transport use. This project
will also entail the retrofitting of existing CFC-12 compressor refrigeration systems for HFC-134a and
polyester lubricants. Equipment for testing the retrofit method will include two leak detectors, a trace
moisture analyzer, refrigerant exhaust equipment, and a refrigerant recycling machine.
27.     Sub-component B. The cooling equipment currently used in this testing station runs on CFC-12,
(400 kg charge). The compressor is an old reciprocating machine of Czech manufacture. Because of
the system's multiple, unidentifiable leaks, it is not possible to implement a CFC-12 retrofit program.
Retrofitting the system for HFC-134a is also an unsuitable option due to the system's complex circuit,
which makes it difficult to ensure the complete removal of mineral oil lubricant. Thermo-King-Frigera



Techcical Annex
Page 9
will convert the system to R 401B (SUVA MP 66), dismantle the system to eliminate leaks, and optimnize
the system (modify heat exchangers, vessels, control valves, etc.) or will use a drop-in substitute,
whichever is most cost-effective.
28.    Sub-component C will introduce procedures for retrofitting existing CFC- 12 refrigeration systems
for use with HFC- 134a. Both Thermo-King-Frigera and CKD-C will retrofit their refrigeration units with
HFC-134a in their workshops; test cleaning procedures for HFC-134a equipment (look at results of
improper maintenance on HFC-134a systems), and conduct field tests. Thermo-King-Frigera has
identified three customers of its equipment willing to participate in the field testing, and CKD-C will
retrofit a CFC-12 screw compressor of a heat pump and turbo refrigeration unit with HFC-134a.
Refrigerant leak detectors, moisture testers, and flow-rate meters will be used for both the Thermo-King-
Frigera and CKD-C portions of the sub-project. A refrigerant recovery machine will be purchased to
minimize emissions during testing.
29.    Sub-component D. Thermo-King-Frigera will write a Technical Brochure to provide specific
retrofit information and procedures to follow for systems using refrigerant HFC-134a. The brochure will
also contain general information on stratospheric ozone depletion.
Project Costs and Implementation
30.    Total cost of this project is US$464,000 and will be implemented over the period 1994-1996.
Sub-project 4: Introduction of non-ODS Insulation Technologies in Cold Room Panel
Manufacturing
Background
31.    The Czech Republic has a well-developed refrigeration sector which produces a range of
refrigeration equipment, insulating panels, components for automobiles, and insulated pipes. The main
activity in this country's foams sector involves rigid foams. All flexible polyurethane (PU) foam blowing
systems in the Czech Republic are expected to be imported for use with new or reconstructed
technological lines. The use of rigid foam for refrigeration purposes in the Czech Republic is currently
estimated at 1800 MT, almost 15 percent of which is produced by Bratni Horakove, s.r.o. (Ltd.) (BHL).
The former CSFR consumed approximately 2,475 MT of foam in 1986, using 315 MT of CFC- 11 as
blowing agent. By 1996, the Czech Republic estimates that 3000 MT will be used in rigid foam
applications.
32.    BHL is the largest manufacturers of PU foam panels in the CR: with a market share of about
40 percent of foamed panel production in the Czech Republic, it is the largest single operator in a sector
including about 11 companies. Founded in 1898, and nationalized in 1948, BHL was recently restored
to the original family owners. It currently employs 170 people, and produces approximately 240 tons
of rigid foam per year using about 31 MT of CFC- II as a blowing agent. Estimated investment costs
for the introduction of non-ODS technologies are approximately CK55.4 million (US$1.9 million). The
company has already invested CK32.7 million in new panel production equipment.
Sub-project Objective
33.    The objective of this sub-project is to convert BHL to 50 percent reduced CFC blown foam, in
the remaining applications and eventually to retrofit current equipment to non-CFC foaming technologies.
Sub-project Description



Tehnical Annex
Page 10
34.    The rigid insulation sector account for approximately 10-11 % of ODS consumption in the Czech
Republic. The switch to non-ODS blowing agents in this sector can generally be accomplished in a 2 step
approach.
The first step will replace 50 percent of the CFC- II with water. This is accomplished at
relatively low cost, resulting in a slightly higher cost of the foam formulation which contains
more resin. This steps also includes plans to design and construct a small laboratory for
testing the properties (e.g., insulation firmness, CFC content, etc.) of proposed foaming
systems. The construction of the testing laboratory involves the purchase of equipment
which currently does not exist in the Czech Republic. The company is currently unable to
test the thermal performance of its panels, and must rely on the guarantees of formulation
suppliers.  The laboratory will also be made available for the use of other panel
manufacturers.
*  The second step involves the switch from low-pressure (LP) blowing to high-pressure (HP)
blowing equipment (or modification of the HP equipment) at significant incremental costs
to the enterprise. It is estimated that this sub-project can be implemented in less than 1.5
years at a cost of US$750,000 including a GEF grant of US$363,000.
35.    A large part of BHL's production consists of foamed Polyurethane (PU) panels, which are used
in the construction of the coldstores. Technology was imported from Germany in 1983 for coldstore
corner piece and door production (unheated moulds) and from Italy in 1991 for the wall panel production.
The heated table in the Italian production line enables it to be used with 50 percent CFC formulations
(already under production using formulations from Enichem [Italy]). This heated table will be used to
introduce other reduced-CFC technologies through the adaptation of new moulds.
36.    This sub-project will include assistance for technical training, testing and demonstration line and
for the acquisition of the necessary technology to successfully convert to non-ODS blowing agents.
Technical seminars on low-ODS and ODS-free technologies in the rigid foam sector. Demonstration
project at the BHL facility where the HP panel press line is suitable for testing of alternative foam
formulations and blowing agents. Investment support for the acquisition or retrofits of HP foam blowing
units for use with HCFC-22/142b or HCFC-141b and eventually with HFC-134a or cyclopentane or other
acceptable blowing agents.
Project Costs and Project Implementation
37.    The new panel production line has already been purchased, representing an investment costs of
CK48.52 million. The total incremental cost has been determined to be US$0.363 million, exclusive of
the technology upgrade investment already made by the enterprise.4
38.    The BHL Company will coordinate this sub-project. Project preparation was carried out in
connection with PROINCOM and the MOE. COWIconsult will also appoint a consultant who will
cooperate with BHL.
4/     Approximately $53,000 in retroactive financing for testing of non-CFC foams and production
of pilot foams will be provided.



Technical Annex
Page 11
Sub-Rroject 5: Set-up of a Proiect Management Unit (PMT)
Background
39.    The Department of Air Protection of the Czech Ministry of Environment (MOE) is responsible
for the Czech Republic's accession to the Montreal Protocol and the adjustments and amendments thereto.
The Department of Projects will, however, supervise the implementation of sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4
through the creation of a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MOE. Outside consultants and
assistance will be contracted by the PMU, as necessary.
40.    A Project Management Unit (PMU) is needed to coordinate project management and
implementation with the World Bank, the Financial Intermediary, and the Participating Enterprises. The
PMU will supervise sub-project implementation, including procurement and disbursement, and providing
guidance and support the Technical Advisory Group. Finally, the PMU will be needed to assist the
Ministry of Environment in preparing documents for the Czech government concerning compliances with
the Montreal Protocol, and in coordinating other multilateral and bilateral ODS phaseout efforts.
41.    A Technical Advisory Group (TAG) is needed to assist CFC-using enterprises, with initial focus
on the aerosol, flexible foam and solvent sectors where the new non-ODS technology is generally
commercially available but are not being implemented mainly for economic reasons. The TAG will assist
in preparing project proposals, in seeking joint venture partners whenever appropriate and in organizing
demonstration projects with suppliers of alternative substances or ODS-free technologies. Secondly, the
TAG will advise the Government on monitoring the status of ODS reduction on a national and project-
specific basis.
42.    Local staff and international consultants will be hired using funds from the operating budget.
Consultants will be hired when appropriate to conduct technological assessments and prepare bid packages
for companies seeking to get quotes on their ODS substitution projects; for the organization of technical
seminars; for technical exchange programs and for specific institutional capacity building.
Project Objective
43.    The objective of this sub-project is to support the establishment of a Project Management Unit
within the Ministry of Environment which will provide institutional, organizational, and administrative
support to the technical departments of the Ministry of Environment and assist ODS-using industries to
develop and implement ODS phaseout projects. The Technical Advisory Group, on the other hand, will
provide technical support to these same organizations.
Project Description
44.    To successfully phaseout of ODS, the Czech Republic will need to:
(a) Write a new Action Plan;
(b) Strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of the Environment to undertake a
national phaseout program;
(c) Develop and expand an ODS monitoring system for the Czech Republic;
(d) Provide information and technical support to industries affected by ODS phaseout;
(e) Create a business environment supportive of ODS phaseout; and



Tenichi Annex
Page 12
(f) Complete the regulatory regime to restrict ODS production and consumption, and promote
the use of reclaimed ODS and new ODS alternatives.
45.    This sub-project has two components: (i) establishing a Project Management Unit (PMU), and
(ii) organizing the ODS Phaseout Technical Advisory Group (TAG). Many of the activities that will be
sponsored by the PMU as a part of this sub-project will be undertaken in cooperation with other
departments of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, universities and
research institutes.
The PMU will be responsible for the following:
*  Central administration and organization of project implementation in accordance with the
GET Grant Agreement and the Project Administration Agreement.
*  Control over utilization of financial means for investment sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4
according to the agreements mentioned above.
*  Overseeing procurement and disbursement for sub-projects 1, 2, 3, and 4 in compliance with
World Bank guidelines and in close cooperation with the Investicnm a Postovni Banka.
*  Central record-keeping of documentation which may need to be made available to the MOE
and the World Bank.
* Consultations concerning the allocation of funds for the sub-projects with the Participating
Enterprises and the Investicni a Postovni Banka.
*  Preparation of any new legislation and regulatory controls for ODS consumption and which
will be needed in the future.
i  Taking part in the preparation of a new "Action plan for ODS phaseout" which would enable
the development of a possible second GEF ODS Phaseout Project.
*  Participating in the open-ended Working Group of the Montreal Protocol and coordinating
other bilateral and multilateral phaseout efforts.
*  Disseminating information on ODS and ODS-substitutes to manufacturers and consumers
through technical seminars with affected trade organizations, the media, and written
materials.
*  Calling and ensuring meetings of the TAG if necessary, at a minimum of 3 times a year.
The TAG will be responsible for the following:
*  Providing technical support and guidance to ODS producers and consumers in a way which
will enhance the project coordination responsibilities of the PMU.
* Ensuring that suitable and competent technical expertise will be provided by external
consultants for each of the investment sub-projects, as necessary.
* Disseminating technical information on each of the investment sub-projects to all concerned
parties, and providing guidance concerning new project preparation.



Technical Annex
Page 13
Project Costs and Implementation
46.    The proposed GEF grant is for a total of US$300,000 over a three year period. The cost is
broken down as follows:
Investment Costs (includes office equipment)     35,000
Personnel Costs (1 full-time, 4 part-time staff)  66,000
Operational Costs (includes technical exchange travel) 199,000
47.    This sub-project will be implemented under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment.



ATTACHMENT A
DOCUMENT OF UNDERSTANDING



Document of Understanding
Refrigerants Recovery, Recycling
and Reclaiming  cheme
in the Czech Republic
c  ritt8
This Document of UnderstandinQ (DoU) provides a description of organisational.
institutional and econonuc issues of a Refrigerants Recovery, Recycling and
Reclaiming Scheme for the Czech Republic as envisaged in the two sub-projects
A.a.ui) - Reclamation and A.a.iui) - Recovery and recycLing, both of which are
part of the GEF-funded Froject "Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in the
Czech Republic" (7CKZGE003) presently under consideration by the World Bank.
The DoU supplements the two sub-project documents A.a.ii) and A.a.iii) as
framework documents for implementing the scheme.
The DoU is presented in the following sections:
1. Background and Objectives of the Scheme
2. Organisation and Refrigerant Flows
3. Financial Flows and Incentives of the Scheme
4. Government Supportive Actions
5. Endorsement of DoU
Annex 1: Financial Cash Flows for the Major Agents Involved in the Scheme
3- _   3acK=3 coZc2L.          ar1d.                 OV13ki*
The Refngerants Recovery, Recyclinc  and Reclaiminq Scheme is established in
order to ensure the provLsion or CFC refrigerants for servicing of refrigeration
equipment and in order to minimize the emissions of CFC resulting from servicing
and dismantling of refrigeration equipment.
The CFC refrigerants stock in refrigeration equipment in the Czech Republic is
presently in the range ci 4,000-5,000 tonnes. The majority of this CFC-based
equipment has a technical lifetime extending beyond the year 1995 when new CFC
refrigerants will no longer be available. In tniis perspective CFC recovery,
recaInung and recycling is an option for ensuring a CFC supply for servicing
purposes *:ntil retrofitting or repaicement of the refrigeration equipment is
econnmicaly and practcally possible.
Ir, 1992 some 700-800 tonnes of CFC was used for servicing of refrigeration
equipment in the Czech Republic. The projected CFC demand fur servicing towards
year 2000 s ilUustrated in Chart 1, tcgether with the estimated theoretical potenffaJ
1                               &99 )-O8- 3



for recovery and the projected volume of recyclable CFC to be achieved under the
scheme. A quickei replacement or retroftting of Jhe present stock of CFC based
refrigeration equipment will of course reduce CFC servicing demand cuid at the
same time increase the potential CFC supply for recycling.
Potential CFC Servicing Demand
Tonnes CFC
800
600          -..
400
200
1992     93       94       96       96       97      98       99      200
Pobrbaw       Suppeyv of  wg    oem"wto be repiia ftiough on-oft mecycbn. remoomtn vietn rhh m
Eldwnmnct    reamm.od refrgmw  (~nd copin b4ends) & :ep4imneff of CFC-bm engaUc eqmpmmkm
Chart 1: Demand for CFC RefIgerants for Servicing In the Cinch Raipubhlc
It is projected that about 40 tonnes of reclaimed CFC can be made avalilable
through the pilot recycling scheme in 19394, increasing to 100 tonnes in 1995 and
reachiing a maximum level of 150 tonnes in 199b. Under this assumption reclaimed
CFC will meef between 5% and 30% of the pro)ected potential demand for CFC
r-efrigerants for servicing. UTnti the end of 1995 the remaining CFC demnand is
Likcely to be met by supply of new CFC, but from 1996 the potential CFC demand
exceeding t-he supply of rec-laimed CFC will have to be met through recycling on-
site, drop-in substitutpes, retrofitting (change of refrigerant - to be inr',oduced
graduaLly from 1994) and replacemenit of C.FC based refrigeration equipment.
in the iniitial phase of the refrigerarits scheme to the end of 1995 there will be a
gradual build up of the scheme. All service techniciaans will be offered free.
training, and all service enterprisas will be offered subsidised recovery equipment.
The reciaimning capacity build up in L-he scheme is believed. to be suffici.ent for even
a very optimistic assessment of the ariount of recovered rafriqerants for recycling.
The newly approved law on ODS phaseout which contain a ban on emissions of ODS
calls for a fast implementation of the refrigerants, recycling schemc- under close
monitoring. A maximum of flexibility is needed for eventual adjustments of the
sclieme based on implementation experience.
2                                 1,-o-i



2_-  C)zgaxi5Amoz2. a=cl FPfIgmzaxIt Plow
There are four ma]or types of agents involved in the oPeration of the Czech
refrigerants recycling scheme:
*   refrigeration servicing enterprises;
*   refrigerant suppliers:
a   comparues providing reclamation of refrigerants; and
*   technical training institutions for service technicians.
Their individual roles in the recycling scheme are ifllustrated in Chart 2 and
outlined in the following paragraphs. The role of the Ministry of Environment and
other governmental bodies is described in Section 4.
Organisation of Czech Refrigerant Recycling Scheme                   D.s,,, 
Assocaabon of     MiWsvry of  .
R.frpsranon      Envifrornent                                .
Servcwnq         TAG-
Tectnicans       Cooroauon                                To be
SVAZ~~~~~
Tres" Ratqngprenti    Reporwn on
of olmng                 Rinprant
St"         Corfiheate I   Flows                        59
=D_c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b :.-r r  * 
gwaoon      gwaRefn                             Rdr..
Sriig   Cl   k Xhi ng.
Comoany                                    oil waso~~~~gran
_                    0~~~~~~~~~d
All Commercial     5-600            EKOTEZI
ano lnCustrIaj   FntAror,ses     KOVOSLUZBA
nlergeawn                                                             (EKOTEZ/
Erd usars                         SPOLEK                      SPOLE  KOVOSLUZBA)
- Usea retrgerant                - New or reclaimred retrqerant
j^ (d0carcU cont nt)            V   (cengflbd content)
Chart 2:   OrganisatLon of the Refrigerants Recycling Scheme
The institutional and economruc incentives fox the variotis enterprisps involved in
the recy1clig scheme are outlined in Section 3.
Refrigeratan Servicing Enterprtm
The refngeration servicinq  enterprises will engage in the actual refrigerants
recovery and recycling operations and store the recovered refrigerant for
subsequent delivery to the refrigerant suppliers. This implies that the usd
3                                  t,93-0.6-1



refrigerants '   he returned to the suppliers typically in conjunction with the
delivery of new refrigerants. The servicing enterprises will:
*  recovpr refrigerants at servicing and dismantling of refrigeration equipment;
* store the refrigerant in cylinders with a label declaring the type of refrigerant
content: arnd
* return the cylinders with recovered refrigerant to the refrigerant supplier.
The Association of Refrigeration  Technicians, SVAZ, has a membership of
approximately 1,700 authorised refrigeration technicians. In addition some 200-300
refrigeration repair workers are believed to be operating in the sector, regstered
only with a business license ("manufacture, installation and repair of refrigeration
equipment") from the District Office for Small Enterprises. The total number of
refrigeration servicing enterprises in the Czech Republic is likely to be in the
range of 500-600. Most of the servicing enterprises are relatively small and all are
newly formed following the first wave of privatisation. Formerly, the state
enterprise KOVOSLUZBA-OTS was the major servicing agency, operating nation
wide.
Technical Trainlng    itutlons
The training of service technicians in refrigerankts recovery, recycling and other
improved refrigerant handling practices will be carried out by the Association of
Refrigeration Technicians in cooperation with one vocational school and a training
agency. A training diploma, certifying the technicians' ability to handle
refrigerants properly, will be issued by the Association. The craining ionstun
will:
* arrange traininq sessions and plan curricula; and
* Lcssue diploma to technicians who have successfully completed the training
course.
The Czech Associatior- of Refrigeration Technicians, SVAZ. will be responsible for
the traiing and will in this endeavour cooperate with EducoCh a training agency
in Praha and the Specialized Vocational School of Refrigeration in Kostelec nad
Orlici. An initial traimng course for technicians in refrigerants handling and
reccvery operations will be offered to all 2,000 service technicians believed to be
working in this field in the Czech Republic.
Refrigerant Suppliers
The refrigerant suppliers will arrange ior transportaticn of recovered refrigerants
from the servicing enterpnses to the reclaination facility. Mobile recovery vehicles
availaLle at the refrigerant suppliers will ast in actual recovery operations at
large industrial refrigeration facilities during servicing or dismantling of these
large sySte-rz. The sup,iiers will be in a postion to sel new refrigerants as wel
as offer the reclaimed refrigerants to the servicing enterprises. The refrigerant
suppliers will:
* coUect and buy back the recovered refrigerants from the servicing enterprises:
4                                9930a8- 31



*  participate in refrigerant recovery operations at large industral reLwgeratfon
users;
*  perform simple gas chromatographic analyses of recoved refrigerants and add
this information to the labels on the refrigerant cylinder:
*  deliver cylnders with recovered refrigerants to the reclamation facUlty;
*  keep records of au refrigerant flows in the Republic and report to the
environmental authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Enviroment: and
* offer certified reclaimed refrigerants to servicing enterprises.
Presently there are only two suppliers of refrigarants to the servicing enterprises.
SPOLEK, the sole CFC producer in the Czech Republic, delivers refrigerants
directly to a number of servicing enterprises, and provides about half of the
refrigerants demand for servicing. The other half of the CFC demand at the
servcing enterprises is covered by supply from KOVOSLUZBA-OTS/EKOTEZ. The
latter company will in the pilot phase organise and operate one refrigerants
recovery/collection centre.
KOVOSLUZBA, also a supplier of refrigeration equipment spare parts imported in
1992 50% of their refrigerant supply and bought the other 50% from SPOLEK. In the
future other sources of rearigerant supply might arise, even though the market for
supplying the refrigeration servicing sector is not very attractive for major
suppliers, owing to tne smaLL quantities demandad per enterprise. However the two
present suppliers have agreed ro handle aLl reovered refrigorants irrespective of
their source of supply.
Companies Providing R a        of Ref guts
The companies foreseen to undertake reclamation of refrigerants in the pilot phase
iS the CFC producer SPOLEK for CFC-12 and ths colection centre ran by
KOVOSLUZBA/EKOTEZ for small amounts of other reft gerants such as HCFCM-22
and   CFC-12  contamnated   with   more  than  10%  oil.  SPOLEK   and
KOVOSLUZBA/EKOTEZ wil be responsible for analysis of the recovered
refrigerants in order to determine their suitability for regeneration either as
feedstock in the C FC p-oduction process at SPOLEK or in the small block
reclamation unit (if oil content is higher than 10% or the oil is contaminated with
PCB). A small block reclamation unit will be availahb both at the sit- of the  CFC
producer SPOLEK and at the recovery centre (KOVOSLUZBA/EKOTEZ).
The ex"-tcnce of PCEB in refrigeration oils has not been proven. Even thougn PCB
has not beer. found, their Ls a suspicon that some eld refrigeration oils could
contain PCE. Care will be taken to examine recovered oil in order to certify that
no FCB has been used in refrigeration oils in the past in the Czech Republic.
SPOL=K will ensure storage of the non-reclaimable refrigerants until a solution for
sake destructon is found (an appropriate chemical waste incireration fadiity is at
the planning stage in the Czech Republic). rhe non-reca;nai!:e i-frigerants will
comprise the refrigerant blend.s/mixtures and mnost likely also CFC-11 for which no
market exists in the future. The refrigerant recLaimers will:
5                               9  . 3-0*-I,



* accept the recovered refxigerants and sort the refrigerants through technical
analysis into three groups:
(1) acceptable as feedstock in new CFC production.
(2) to be rqclaimed In small block units, and
(3) non-recLaimble;
* reclaim refrigerants of groups (1) and (2):
*   provide for storage of refrigerants of group (3) until an acceptable solution
for destruction is found;
* provide for destruction of oil residues at SPOLEK's incinerator; and
* supply reclaimed refrigerants to wholesalers.
Chart 3 illustrates the possible eiassification categories of recovered r gerants
in the proposed recycling scheme (initLal phase unti the end of 1995). umd
refrigerants are analyzed and sorted as to purity. Depending among other on the
level of oil content and the content of foreign refngerants (typically HCFC-22).
the recovered refrigerant may be:
*  acepted as a feedstock in the production of new CFC-12;
*  reraimed separately and sold for servicing (CFC-12 and HCFC-22); or
*  stored for later destructlon (refrigerant mixtures and possily CFC-ll).
After 1995 the reclaiming component of the refrigerant scheme will have to be
adjusted, as the use of recovered CFC-121 as feedstock will be terminated together
with the production of new CFC. At that time analysis will be conducted of the
future CFC demand and various strategies for expanding the reclaiming capacity
in the Czech Republic.
Classification of Refrigerants In the Czech Recycling Scheme
Used Refngswnm
cCfmi2              noaw CF          fa
a''Mod I  IC       (DIN 63960)    Seovcaig
Group 2
Analvang     (CFC-12 to     C__d                 Some
jplL J     t       uF i   and  be reijjr.1       rdurw 4 CFC -    Sa9
I                1~~~~~~~~~~~O%Yod)
Group 3
Und Reingeratnt               | 5 mmUrou tO                         Ocon
(d     rea contnt i               be stord Ior 
dalucflon) 
Chart 3:   Refrigerant Flow in the Recycling Scheme
6                                k ..



3EJxm_=n FEr-3W                       =ow_  =d cMM=t:IVM                 Cze  _it
Thit seosi describes the retngerant schaem   in terms of the economdc and
institutional incentives for motivatng the individual participants of the scheme. The
rinancal flows between the participants in the refrngerants schem  are illustrated
in Chart 4.
Cash flow projections for the major agents involved in the Refrigerants Recovery,
Recycling and Reclaiming Scheme are presented in Annex 1. The exchange rate
between the Kc and the USD applied in the anaLyss Is 28:1. Further details on the
economic and financial aspects of the refrigerant scheme are contained in the two
project documents A.a.ii) on reclamation and A.a.-ii) on the recovery and recycLing
operations.
Two of the major assumptions in the financial analysis of the refrigerant scheme
are of course the volume of refrigerants to be recovered and the saes price on
reclaimed/new CFC ref,igerants. The assumptions applled here for the initlal phase
of the scheme (1994-95) are believed to be rather cautious. However, because of
the uncertainty relating to the implementation of the refrigerant scheme in this
initial phase a financial Leserve for possibly underwriting of operations is
suggested'.
Financial Flows of the Czech Refrigerant Recycling Schume
3bbI Enom. Faat                            '               un
IoE gr                                 |                FuSu 
T        _                      t          Pud ot         1 rPo  _ownw
recrttovered CFC
TeChnc            Rora:t n     ecovfeC      Roeigrant  in p     -   RecieAmem
Trawu.             Serviong                  Supplim  FIbbtI
Insosjn            Entewsor
j                      | ~~~~~~~~~~GEF subadybr :  
r owvelymcms.
Purchae of now or        Purchase  r or
| rd CFC (-nd             rOCne CFC (inc.
CFC ta and rotb to           CFC tax)
!PI sae erPurchan of n or re ci newdCFC
________________       _1__. CFC tax a    profit b  suppbwr
Refngeraon User
Chart 4:   Finandal Flows in tne Recycling Scheme
to$-ef.. ..Ovft of use SO50 fO ro. ten Gar qrant -d- $NlGtQrOd bVI th, ODS T,,n-,C41 Ad-.-erI GI.., *ad
.60-9t-11   PP4..d  to  *.P&ort c.. np-et-.e cc tn-  race.e  cf nt rer
7                                   ,9.. ..



Refe,geratigz Smriz1g BM
There are some 500-600 servicing. enterpnses and about 2,000 refrigeration
technicians in the Czech Republic. The typical refrigeration servicing enterprise,
defined as having an average of four refrigeration technicians. is envisaged to
operate with one recovery machtne. The volume of CFC handled is assumed to be
the total volume of CFC handled in the Czech Republic divided by the number of
servicing enterprises, say, 500.
Incremental cash outflows are envisaged in connection with (1) the acquisition of
a recovery machine (USD 960), and (2) the labour and maintenance costs related
to resovery of C FV.
Cash inflows are expected in the form of:
*   a GEF subsidy on the purchase price of a recovery machine';
*   revenues in connection with the saLe of recovered CFCs back to the refrigerant
suppLiers of Kc 40 per kg;
*   fees in connection with services rendered to refrigerant users'.
Refer to Table 3 of Annex 1, and to Chart 4.
As shown in Table 3. the incremental cash flows for a participating refrigeration
sericing enterprise will, if service fees of Xc 150 per hour continue to be
charged, result in a small cash surplus already the year after acqui3ition of the
reoverY machine. Over the four full years of operation an average refrigeration
servicing company would have a net present value of the recovery operations of
USD 1,200. The incantive or motivation for paxticipating refrigeration sarvicing
enterprises would thus be financial, free training, and access to reclaimed CFC,
all of which translate into business survival in the longer run.
Tchnal Traing Irstitutions
The Czech Association or Refrigeration Technicians, SVAZ. has offered to be
responsible for the training of service technicians. For its parricipation in the
Pefrigerants Recovery, Recycling and Reclaiming Scheme, SVAZ would receive a
GEF grant, covering an of the initial training ccsts, including recearrh visits to
Denmark and Gernie,ny. and equipment for the Training Centre. Refer to Table 4
of Annex 1.
By participating in the Scheme. SVAZ would place ,tsplf in a strong position to
conduct subsequent user-finaraced technician training courses related to new
I I   .-  ..."ed  t   It  AT. . ...en . S   ACatea  C.  onJne no r to re co..  one aq of CP.r  d.pelAT q pr .e -IIF 0c the
0oivae ol CrC ,n the  eqs,pn to o- "O t en.C..   the *ow*.e g *g.    , s assecd to be oc 4s 0.e nho.
GEP  soPpotc  e  ".pecio  In th "e 0.. f   a eaaidr OA the purgnhas  of A ,eCo.e.Y -  htfn*-I- 50  Of thd Prtheen- Pr-CO
toI  th h  -st ISO P-*rt CI Pnte a o4 I5S Aor  hen A t . O.  te15   ol thc   soa enherernP ea  CouAd t hee. 6 COCOA  C I C
.S0 24 0 _ Ct? S., t..
Th*..req. @*,,.C.  Ce-  I. aeeeaed to be Sc ti0 per  ho,r. 1   C1 turthef aeefled thet the .odat..-O    tIes DPO.4
on ret, qetest C.OO.*..  CTV be CharSed to the clAUCt.
a                                  1991-Os- SI



technological developments in refrigeration  appliances and recovery/recyclng
equipment; using inter alia the knownow and trarning equ:pnzent provided by GEF
support.
Rfrgwant Supplar
Table 2 of Annex 1 shows the combined cash flows of the refrigerant suppliers in
the Refrigerants Recovery, Recycling and Reclauming Scheme. These costs mainly
comprise the establishing and operations of the refrigerant recovery/collection
centre.
The refrigerant suppliers, KOVOSLUZBA/EKOTEZ and .SPOLEK, are assumed to
purchase recovered CFC at 40 iCc per kg and sell them to the reclamation centre
at 50 Kc per kg. New and reclaimed CFC  sassumed to be puchased from SPOLEK
at the break-even selling price (see below), and sold to refrigeration sexvicing
enterprises and other refrigerant users including a mark-up of 20%'.
With the GEF grant 1to cover investment costs, the refrigerant suppiexs would
under the assumptions applied here be able generate a modest profit after the first
two years of operations. However due to the uncertainty related to the amount
of CFC which will be recovered and the CFC prices, a financial reserve of USD
50,000 is proposed to underwrnte opera Lions of the recovery/colection centre.
Companis Providing Reclamation of Refrigeranto
Table 1 of Annenx 1 shows the cash flows of SPOLEK in connection with the
company's participation in the Refrigerants Recovery, Recycling and Reclaimng
Schenie.
With the newly approved CFC fee of 100 Kc, the price of CFCs will treble.
Assuming that SPOLEK purchase recovered CFC at 50 Kc per kg, the company can
without further price increases sell the reclaimed CFC at about three times this
amount. With the investment grant from the GEF. this sales price generate a
revenue whichl.is suffiaent to cover the full costs of CFC reclamation. Given CFC
price developments elsewhere, a selling pr;ce of 145 Kc per kg in 1994 (increasing
to 170 Kc in 1997) is not unrealiscic.
Given th3 cash flows presented in Table I of Annex 1. SPOLEK would thus be in
a position to continue supplying CFC refrigerants required by the refrigeration
servicing sector, without incurring any losses itself. To the extent that world
market prices for CFC increase further, it may be possible for SPOLEK to inrease
its selling prices and, ttlereby, generate profits.
T?a  Dq. .z  supei.q-   -  ..an   p,lce  a."ad  #r*a Ie C*, I   cc a,  eq \  19C    hpolx a so AI  q Xr ICo. PiWu
.1 ae-u,  ceoA uco.t-.  _nc ......q  to  d"  "e  n g SC7  Crv-e  P-Ce de..kipOtets for CrC *i**R*.*.  thiS P*f
*   no.  nrg.le  iKC.
Under tnl   PPI'd 6 *DCept6..s tcc.  ,n.tr.at rate at recutr  on the  reir9q.C.nC  *.pi&ter&s  ,CO.wer7,.CVCja*q
# t,or   is  e.I- I...e.s  I Is 154 er  gn  parOd  1t'19'.
g                               X *91-01-31



4_-  Govzimnzt Spor   ctloi
A number of institutional issues relating to the refrigerant scheme are Lo be
addressed by the Government, ana rhese are briefly described in the following
paragraphis. Some of these Government.actions are general Government provisions
already well under way with the approval of the new Law on ODS phaseout, while
others are specific actions required to support the refrigerant scheme.
*  implement refrigerant emission ban:
*  implement CFC fee/import duty;
*  implement ODS licensing system:
*  cater to safe destruction solution for refrigerant waste;
*  insttutionalise refrigerant handling certificate:
*  cosider support for establshing an improved funding mechanism,
*  institutionaLtse reporting requirements on refrigerant flows;
* provide information dissemination to enterprises and general public.
A law on ODS phaseout was approved in Czech Par)iament ir. July 1.993. The law
establishes a ban on the emission of ODS, thus providing a legal basis for
enforcement of refrigerant recovery dunng servicing of equipment. Furthermore
the law includes the introduction of a CFC production fee and import duty of 100
Kc per kg of ODS. This import duty will raise current CFC prices by about 200%.
This CFC  price increase  naturally  improves the economic viability of the
rei'igerants scheme.
A deee by the Ministry of Environment has introduced an ODS licensing system,
whereby both producers and   nm    of ODS have to apply for licences through
the Government'. tcences will be issued on the basis of the folowing critoia: (1)
ornly present ODS consuming industries are eligible, anrd (2) the refrigeration
sector is first priority, foam sector second, solvents and fire protection third, and
aerosol sector is not eligible. It is assumed that consumption phaseout (at least
unil 1996) will take place faster than the Montreal Protocol's reduction
requirements (with Copenhagen Amendments).
As the refrigerants scheme has not yet fcund an acceptable solution for the safe
destruction of non-reclaimable refrigerants, the Government will have to aist
SPOLEK in identifying an acceptable destruction iaility. This cotild be within the
framnework of a planned cherricai incineration plant prepared with PHARE fundinq.
Until an acceptable destruction model is found the non-reclaimable rpfrigeraA1ts will
be stored at SPOLEK premises.
The Government sholtld also consider the desirability of including a certification
pLovisicn for enterprises operating with the servicing of refrigeration equipment.
Such a provision nught stiplutae that the issuance of a business License is
contingent on the proven availabiLity of rogrrgerant reLovary c;qipment and the
holding of training diploma  ("safe refrigerants handling") of the techrical
tk,' Ga..re..t body   r."SP..B'Tl   tofr   -08-c. Ot Igc-flS*  hOrn At Pn  bS-*    de--In tett     but it  a Bsomeds ti.t
*      .  Xt Cl   H e- r sz-.trr or En .-on_et oa  the    a,tty  01  mhduSttp.
10                              tA13-o3_ I



personnel. This could perhaps be dor,e as an amenQmenL Lo Law No. 455/1991 Co1.
on business licenses. -,he Technical Advisory GLOUP (TAG) and its coordination
office under astablishment in the Ministry of Environment could be made ru nsble
fo0 the issuing of rpfrigerant handling certficates to servicing enterprises. A
certificate fee, which would cover the administrative costs involved, could be
considered .
As mentioned, the law on ODS phaseout provides, with the fee/import duty on new
refrigerants, an indirect financial support to the viAhility of the refrigerants
scheme through higher prices on refrigerants. :t is believed that these economdc
conditions (including the GEF grant) will be sufficient to ensure the economic
viability of the scheme dunng the initial phase. However, the Government should
monitor the economic viabiLity of the scheme as implementation progresses and
eventually intervene in the creation of a more favourable economic environment for
refrigerants recycling if deemed relevant.
In relation to the morutoring of the refrigerant scheme, the Government should
ensure that reportng guideLines on the refrigerant scheme are established. The
refrigerant suppliers are likely to be the most attractive focal point for repoxting
on' the scheme. and the TAG is the logical Government institution for monitoring
of the scheme.
Finally, the Government should provnde for a comprehensive information
dissemination on the refingerants scheme, both to the enterprises engaged In the
refrigeration sector and to the general public - the inclusion of the latter being
one of the major factors supporting the enforcement of the scheme.
Most of these Government actions will naturally fall under the auspices of the ODS
I'echrLical Adviscry Grolup under establishment in the Ministry of Environment.



5_  E             _m=zt of M= OJ
Thts Document of Unoerstanding represents a common understanding among the
patcipants of the organisaticn and functioning of the     __
RW____a and ReIatmina Schem and the responsibilities assdgnea to and agreed
upon by each of the participants.
For SPOLEK - United Cheimcal and Metallurgical Works Ltd., Usti nad Labem
* September 1993
A1eXMj Vitak, MAnaging Director. Inorgancs Divson
Fcr KOVOSLUZBA-OTS s.e., Praha             September 1993
., -
Milan Biazek, Managing 9ctor
For EKOTEZ Ltd., Praha           September 1993
,/
FrantLsek Janda. Managing Director
For SVAZ - Czech Assoxation cf Refrig.ration Techncians, Praha         I
September 1993-
Bohuslav SpaceK, Head of Secretanat



.AzMac 1
F         Sz~,a CW F1wm
I      xfor tkiz      t:ftz   AgmzIt
3F-MCY=U S   MdM'  3Ft-             i A&J  t3dh_
Note:
To the extent possible. the cash flow figures presented in the
foUowing Tables retlect the figures supplied by the various
agents in the Scheme. Certain figures may have been adjusted
to ensure consistency in the methodology and assumptions used.
The figures given are very precse, and will be rounded off to
the nearest 100 USD for Tables 1, 2 and 4, and to the nearest
10 USD for Table 3.
Assumed Exchange Pate:
1 USD: 28 Kc



table 1:   Inntal Flnancial Cash Flown, in USD. f= thea Rechmim.           ..
(SPOLEK)
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ 1993  1994  1995    1996     1997
volum  o CFC Hdd0                            540      600                100
(~m)                                        ___.
Rclhairned CFC                     0-      40      100      150       100
New CFC                            -      500      500
Zzivtment Ccs                     14400   210       _
Design & management cost        5200                  _
rCivfi works                    3500
Operating machinery                    121400
Laboratory equipment                    43200                   |
Handling equipment                      277.00                   _
Start-up costs                          13900
Continagencis                   5700    10000
Operating Coon                       0  266K 2789M8    ______
Materals                               462390   525937
Purchase of recovered CFC              71429   178571'
Energy                                  39233    43389
SalAries a___43321    43321
CFC fe to Env. Fund                   1785714  1785714
Other overhead charges                205998   212955
TOW Ca   Ou_                      14400  2       I88   m
Cah Inw                           __
GEF grant                      14400   215700  _
Saloi of CFC. revenue             0  2608085  2789887
inclusve of CFC fee 1)
LToa Cash Intow                   14400 123785  278
1) Sales price calculated backwards to provide full cost coverage t including a
modest profit) for reclamation cantre. Evertual further orce increaa  on CFC
refrigerants wil naturaUy improve reclamation profitability.



Table 2:   Inerental  Finanial Cash  Flows, in USD. f   the  Pt
Suppli, and ReycLing Agent. (KOVOSLUZBA/EKOTEZ and SPOLEM)
____     ~~~~~~~99                .94      1995     1996      1997 j
!                              =            1995     199j 93  994 
Volume of CFC Handd                  0       -40     100        0       100
vestment cons.                   404       41000  _       _
Specally designed tanks    T 140000 r         _          -
Pump for liquids               5000 1
Regeneration equipment       169000                        .
Vehicles                    I 90000
Total - PHASE 2              4_       __04000
SPOLEK                                 41000
Ooeitinq Cot_                   185000 1 2822609 93109697  ...
EKOTEZ/KOVOSLUZBA              5000   130000   140000
SPOLEK                                 25000    31000
Subsidy for recovery C8:t::
machines
_Purchase of recovered CFC                59524 1148809.
Purchase of new or
reclaimed CFC Zronr. SPOLEK          2608085 1278988 |
Tol Cash Outow                 1 5900 12863609 3109697'
CamhbInfiowe:H___ __ 
L__GEF grant for investments    4 40000  __    T______
Subsidy for reovery        I 180000
machines (GEF)               _        _    _
Sale of recvered CFC to
SPOLEK                      _          71429   178571 |         ___
Sale of new or recliumed             2772559  2990722
CFC to servicing enterpriesj
Toabl Camb iifLowu              58400  2843958  3169294             ___
1~~~~1
_N_t_C_h Flw 1t _50    -19621   59597 
1) This net cash flow in the initial phasa of the refngerants scherrie results in an
internal r,te of return on this component of 15%.



.sm 3:   In      tl  Cash  Flown, in  USD. fr the Avag   Re.F
Sez1cng E l
______________________________  1 1993  1994      1995       2196   1997
.~                                                -
VaLUn of CFC Handled (kg)           - 0       so      200       300      200
I VW m en    Com                            960   __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Recovery machine                          960m___
Equipment maintenance                      so       70        70       90
TOW Cub Outflow                       0     1067      213       2"       233
Caah :nks
Subsidy for recovery                      240
machine_2)                                                 . _
Sale of recovered CFC to                  119      298    4_          298
C entre__                        _ _  __  _ _  __  _ _   __ _  _  __   _ _
Service fees 1)                           214      536       804      536
.Totl Cash Inw                _       0      573        3      1250      83
jNet Cash Flow 3)                     0     -494      620
lAcx:ul C -h Flow          I           O  I         127 I1092         1693 
1) It ls in this calculation assumed that 1 kg cf CFC can be recovered with an
average additional time spent of 0.5 hour, and that this time can be fully
charged to the client (the refrigeration users).
2) The GEF subdidy is asumed to be 50% of purchase price for the fIt 250
partLpants. and 25% for the second 250. The emple shown assume, that the
subsidy received is 25% of the purchase price. To the extent that a higher
subsidy is received, the casn flows would improve.
3) This net cash flcw results in an interndl rate of return of 25% after two full
years of operations.



Taba 4:  T!;ntal Carn Flow, in USD.':r the Tranq                tu   (SVAZ)
_   _  _5__          __                    71000   _                  _
_Research visitsig             151500
Training of technicians      I          52000
Equipment                      32430
Publc awareness campaign 1)   15000    15000
_Othper expenses               _4000    4000_
Tol Cmh Outw    __._ _.0003 no
-GEF grant training            51930_  56000
GEF grant TAG's PAC 1)         15000   15000
Traing fee 2)
Total cas nflows                  6693   '71000                         _
1) A PubLic Awareness Campaicgn i PAC) relating to ozone depleting refrigerants
and proper handling wflW be conducted by the ODS Technical Advisory Group
(TAG).
2) it is assumed that t-he irnital trauung is financed 100% by GEF. H!owever
su,bsequent trainng of service technicians is Likely to be user financed.






14'                                16'                             18'
The boundones, colors, denominotions and any other nformation
sho.,n on th,s map do not r-ply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundarnes
GE RMANY  T. Dr.seWJ
To Dresden '   _    |                                            0 O         50           100         150
XMost  n o d  Lobem  o>tv y    <     _                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
-cE<Vi,CZECHES REUBI                                                                                                                 48' -    
0  MAJO  TOWN ANDPVLLAGE
g T ZAPADOCI                                           r u iPV E CAPITAeL
STEDOCESKY \I                              SEVEROMORAVS
-HHOC ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ -
-+--I--+   RAILROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I
|           zuu,,N~~~~~~~~~dejovi k             t\                                    X 
]                    ~~~~~T. Venn-  Husto                  L    VA            R    P     BL    
J                       on  A        US T R I A"          T.uni V-- lJhi
-48  g                     ~CZECH REPUBLIC                                     \4'
\                     O~~~~~~~ MAJOR TOWNS AND VILLAGES 
)                 (i)     ~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS                    1    \
,  _   _.                     @      ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     '
,                          ~~~~~~~~MAkIN ROADS               .    ' 
I           RAILROADSG                                                        RY
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     18                          01
_J'0






I
I
I
I
4
I
I



 Printed on recycled paper



