Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28661
Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Technical Support and Investment Project for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances)
between
CZECH REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated October 26, 1994
GET GRANT NUMBER 28661
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 1994, between CZECH REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B) 
certain members of the Bank and Switzerland (the Participants) have 
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested 
and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes 
of, and in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
(D) 
the Project will be carried out through the Recipient's Ministry of 
Page  2
Environment (MOE) and Investicní a Postovní Banka (IPB) with the Recipient's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make available to IPB, 
as financial intermediary, a part of the proceeds of the GET Grant as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
     (ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
    (iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
     (iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant;
     (vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account; and
    (vii)
a new sub-paragraph shall be added after sub-paragraph (j) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "An 
Page  3
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which further 
disbursement under the grant would exceed the resources available 
for disbursement from the GET."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Administration Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Recipient and IPB, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substance;
(c)
"PMU" means the GEF-ODS Phaseout Project Management Unit to be 
established and operated within the MOE;
(d)
"TAG" means the GEF-ODS Phaseout Technical Advisory Group to be 
established and operated within the MOE;
(e)
"Subsidiary Grant" means the grant from the Recipient to IPB pursuant to 
the Project Administration Agreement;
(f)
"Participating Enterprise" means Spolek Chemical Works, 
Thermo-King-Frigera, Kovosluzba - OTS e., Ekotez Ltd., CKD Compressors, Bratri 
Horákové, s.r.o. and any such other organization or enterprise which the PMU has 
identified as a participant in the Project;
(g)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement between IPB and a Participating 
Enterprise, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(h)
"Sub-grant" means a grant from IPB to a Participating Enterprise pursuant 
to a Sub-grant Agreement to finance a Sub-project;
(i)
"Sub-project" means an ODS phaseout activity to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET grant; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in IPB on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachments. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOE and IPB with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and financial practices and 
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall make available 
a part of the proceeds of the GET Grant to IPB as a Subsidiary Grant under the Project 
Administration Agreement under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Trustee, including, inter alia, a financial intermediary fee of 2.72% of the 
amount disbursed to finance Sub-grants, and IPB shall make available said proceeds as 
Sub-grants to the Participating Enterprises under Sub-grant Agreements to finance 
Sub-projects under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Trustee 
and in accordance with the general procedures and guidelines set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual agreed to by the Recipient and the Trustee and the procurement 
and consultants' procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall cause IPB to exercise its rights under the Project 
Administration Agreement and each Sub-grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient, the Trustee and IPB and to accomplish the purposes of the 
GET Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, IPB shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Project Administration Agreement or any Sub-grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall, at the request of the Trustee, exchange 
views with the Trustee with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the GET 
Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall promptly inform the Trustee of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the GET Grant, or the performance by the Recipient 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that 
each Participating Enterprise complies with all relevant environmental requirements of 
the Recipient for any ODS phaseout activity to be carried out under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause IPB to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall or shall cause IPB to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
     (ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Page  5
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall or 
shall cause IPB to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter or any other regulations governing the existence or the 
operations of IPB shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of IPB 
or the ability of IPB to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Administration Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Recipient will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken: (i) any actions which shall adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the performance by IPB of any of its obligations under the Project Administration 
Agreement; or (ii) any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of IPB or for 
the suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the GET Grant 
Agreement:
(a)
the Project Administration Agreement shall have been executed with terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; and
(b)
the Recipient shall have appointed staff for the PMU whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to 
the Trustee.
Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Environment of the Recipient is designated as 
Page  6
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Environment of the Czech Republic
Vr_ovická 65
100 10 Praha 10
Czech Republic
Telex:
122298
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
CZECH REPUBLIC
By /s/ Michael Zantovsky
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as Trustee of the Global Environment
  Trust Fund
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of
 the GET
   Grant Allocated
   % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  7
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
Goods, works and
services:
(a)
for Part A.1 of
60,000 )
100% of foreign 
the Project 
)
expenditures and 
)
100% of local
(b) 
for Part A.2 of
780,000
)
expenditures 
the Project
)
(ex-factory
 )
cost) 
) 
(c)
for Part A.3 of
350,000
)
the Project
)
)
)
(d)
for Part A.4 of
280,000
)
the Project
)
)
(e)
for Part B of 230,000
)
the Project
)
TOTAL
    1,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
180,000, may be made on account of payments made for expen- ditures under Parts A.2, 
A.3 and A.4 of the Project before that date but after August 1, 1993.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in the phase-out of the 
production and consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs) in a cost-effective 
manner by the 1996 calendar year.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Investment Sub-projects
1.
Sub-project 1:  Engineering Assistance for ODS Production
 
    Phaseout
Carrying out of an engineering study to develop a strategy to shut down 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) production by January 1, 1996 while minimizing the 
environmental impact of excess amounts of carbon tetrachloride (CTC) produced at the 
Spolek Chemical Works, including the identification of available methods of converting 
CTC to perchloroethylene (PCE), identification of available methods of using PCE as a 
raw material for producing HFC-134a and making recommendations for using propylene, 
CTC or PCE as raw materials in the production of other hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and 
hyrochloro- fluorocarbons (HCFCs).
Page  8
2.
Sub-project 2:
Design and Operation of CFC Refrigerant
Reclamation Facilities and Establishment
of Refrigerant Recovery Capacity
Establishment of a national refrigeration recovery/ reclamation/recycling 
program to be developed in two phases: (i) phase one to focus on the development of a 
comprehensive plan and program, including training of technicians for recovery and the 
establishment of reclamation facilities to be used at the Spolek Chemical Works; and 
(ii) phase two to set up the national recovery network and provide training to 
refrigeration technicians.
3.
Sub-project 3:  Introduction of Non-ODS Refrigerants
Phase-out of CFCs used in commercial, industrial and transport refrigeration 
systems through the following activities: (i) conversion by Thermo-King-Frigera of 
existing transport cooling systems and environmental test facilities, retrofitting 
existing commercial cooling systems and preparing a retrofit manual; and (ii) 
retrofitting by CKD Compressors of a centrifugal chiller and a screw compressor as 
part of a municipal heat pump installation. 
4.
Sub-project 4:
Introduction of Non-ODS Insulation
Technologies in Cold Room Panel
Manufacturing
Introduction of low-ODSs and non-ODSs foaming technologies to companies through 
the demonstration of available techniques and the provision of training seminars.
Part B:
Project Management Unit and Technical Advisory Group
Establishment of a GEF-ODS Phaseout Project Management Unit and a GEF-ODS 
Phaseout Technical Advisory Group within the MOE to provide institutional, 
organizational and technical support to the sectors using ODSs to help initiate and 
implement ODS phaseout projects in various industrial sectors.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed on June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Trustee, 
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local 
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account 
in the bid evaluation.
3.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A of this Section I, the 
Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on other international 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Czech Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  9
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and less 
than the equivalent of $300,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least 
three countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost below the equivalent of $50,000, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, and contracts for works may 
be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least 
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Goods of a proprietary nature may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of 
negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
The Recipient shall employ management and environmental consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with 
the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
Page  10
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Page  11
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
