Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18384
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CZECH REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND INVESTMENT PROJECT FOR THE
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
GEF GRANT NUMBER 28661
August 27, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CZECH REPUBLIC'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 4, 1998)
Currency Unit   =   Czech Crown (CZK)
US$1   =    34.773 CZK
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Czech Crown per US$
1994         1995           1996            1997             1998
28.285       26.545         27.135           31.71           34.43
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director: Kevin Clcaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader, Environment: Michele E. De Nevers, ECSSD
Responsible Staff: Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader (ECCHU)
Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager (ECSSD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHL  -  Bratri Horakove, s.r.o.(Ltd.)
CEE  -  Central and Eastern Europe
CFC  -  Chlorofluorocarbon
CKD-C - CKD Compressors
CK  -  Czech Koruna
CR  -  Czech Republic
CSFR  -  Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
CTC  -  Carbon tetrachloride, a regulated substance
DOU  -  Document of Understanding
GEF  -  Global Environment Facility
GET  -  Global Environment Trust
GWP       Global Warming Potential
FI  -  Financial Intermediary
FSU  -  Former Soviet Union
HCFC  -  Hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC  -  Hydrofluorocarbon
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA  -  International Development Association
ICB  -  International Competitive Bidding
IPB  -  Investicni a Postovni Banka
IS - International Shopping
LCB  -  Local Competitive Bidding
LS  -  Local Shopping Procedures
LCB  -  Local Competitive Bidding
LS  -  Local Shopping
MFMP  -  Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol
MOE  -  Czech Ministry of Environment
MOF  -  Czech Ministry of Finance
MP  -  Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MW   -  Megawatt
NBF  -  Not Bank-Financed
ODP  -  Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS  -  Ozone Depleting Substances
PAA   -  Project Administration Agreement
PCE  -  Perchloroethylene
PIM   -  Project Implementation Manual
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PU   -  Polyurethane
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
STAP  -  Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TAG   -  Technical Advisory Group
UNEP  -  Untied Nations Environment Program
3R  -  Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Contents
Preface .....................,.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................                                         ii
Introduction.                                                                  ii
Project Objectives.                                                            ii
Implementation Experience and Results.                                         ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Leaned .iv
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                            . . 1
A. PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES .1
Project Context ....................1
Project Objectives ................      ,.2
Evaluation of Objectives                          .2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                               .3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                           .6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                               .7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                   .9
F. RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE                                .9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
H. FUTURE OPERATION .10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                .11
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES    ..13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                     .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies and Workshops Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .19
Table 8B: Project Financing .19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants Czech Republic ODS Phaseout .20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .21
APPENDIXES:
A. Aide-memoire offinal mission
B. Recipient's contribution to the ICR
C. Map



-1-
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Support and
Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in the Czech Republic, for
which GEF Grant Number 28661, Code CZ-GE 8377 of 1994 in the amount of SDR 1,700,000
equivalent was approved on August 23, 1994 and made effective on December 15, 1994.
The grant was closed on March 31, 1998 instead of June 30, 1996 the original closing
date. 98.3% of the grant was disbursed and SDR 29,395 remained undisbursed and unutilized.
The last disbursement date was April 16, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader, from the Europe and
Central Asia Region ECSSD, and Mr. David Gibson, Consultant. It was reviewed by Ms.
Michele de Nevers, Sector Leader for Environment, ECSSD, Mr. Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio
Manager, ECSSD and Mr. Mahesh Sharma, Senior Regional Coordinator, ENVGC.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and project
completion mission, which took place from March 8-12, 1998. It is based on material in the
project file and discussions with the Director of the Project Implementation Unit, officials of the
Ministry of Environment and other relevant entities involved in project implementation. The
recipient participated in the preparation of the ICR by contributing their own project completion
report.



- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Czech Republic was one of the first countries eligible for Global Environment
Facility (GEF) grant funds to launch a comprehensive Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS)
phaseout program. In 1992, the Government of the Czech Republic requested World Bank
assistance in the preparation of a GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project. When the project closed in
early 1998, it was one of the first successful ODS phaseout projects worldwide. GEF support
provided an incentive for the Czech Republic's early adoption of ODS phase-out activities,
which yielded environmental and economic benefits.
Project Objectives
ii.   The principal objective of the Project was to assist the Czech Republic in the cost-
effective phaseout of ODS production and consumption by 1996, as mandated by the Montreal
Protocol. Specific objectives included: a) the progressive phase-out of chloroflurocarbon (CFC)
production in the Czech Republic; b) the establishment of a Czech network for refrigerant
recovery, reclamation and recycling (3R); and c) supporting applied engineering efforts to use
ODS substitutes in manufactured goods, thereby reducing immediate and future needs for
regulated substances. Subprojects addressed each of the project objectives (equipment
manufacturing, 3R, CFC phase out).
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Overall, the objectives of the project were fully achieved. ODS production and use of
primary CFCs were phased out through the implementation of the sub-projects and enactment of
the Act of the Czech Republic on the Protection of the Ozone Layer. In addition to meeting
some of the incremental costs of phaseout, this GEF funded project enabled appropriate Western
technologies to be identified and introduced into the country.
iv.   Project time frame. The project closing date was extended twice, due to a number of
reasons: 1) technical and procurement problems; 2) the change of sub-project designs; and
3) difficulties regarding the introduction and operation of the 3R scheme. All legal covenants
were met on time, although delays continue on the introduction of incentives to make the 3R
scheme work as intended.
v.   Investment Components. The equipment manufacturing projects at Thermo King Czech
Republic (formerly Frigera) and CKD Kompresory (CKD) are considered successful.
Implementation at Thermo King Czech Republic proceeded smoothly and results matched
expectations. The production of new transport cooling systems was converted to non-ODS
refrigerants, and methodologies developed were developed to retrofit existing CFC-12 based
equipment in the field to non-ODS refrigerants. Implementation at CKD experienced initial



- iii -
difficulties when the choice of equipment for which retrofit methodologies were being developed
proved inappropriate. The problem was rectified when a new management team re-focussed the
project on more widely used equipment.
vi.   The refrigeration equipment retrofit methodologies developed by Thermo King and CKD
are generally applicable to similar systems made by different manufacturers.  Their
dissemination via manuals in Czech, Russian and English will promote the retrofitting of a wide
range of cooling equipment in CIS and Eastern European countries.
vii.  The use of CFCs in the manufacturing of foamed panels and cooling systems has been
curtailed along with the production of CFC-12 and CFC-11. Bratri Horakove (BHL), a foamed
panel company, established a foam testing laboratory. This has proved invaluable in solving
technical problems caused by the foaming agents used so far, and is likely to be well used in the
future as new developments such as HFC-245a are tried.
viii.  The 3R Scheme. The performance of the 3R component of the project has not been
satisfactory. Although some 200 tons of refrigerants per year are being generated, only a small
amount is being reclaimed. The problem seems to stem from legislation adopted in 1993 to
artificially increase the price of CFC-12 by imposing a high excise duty on it. Because the two
reclaim centers are offering only a fraction of the street value of CFC-12, contaminated
refrigerants are being re-used directly. The result may be a heavy hidden cost on the Czech
economy in the form of higher refrigeration equipment failure rates. Legislation in this regard
will be difficult to enforce in the short term. Improving the redemption price of recovered
refrigerants will have more effect. A significant amount of CFC-1 1 (about 80 tons) has been
recovered and stored by the reclaim centers. Only about 20 tons have been reclaimed and there
seems to be no market for the remaining 60 tons.
ix.    As the operator of one of the two refrigerant reclaim centers, Spolek is also likely to
benefit if the problems of the 3R scheme are resolved. (See section D below.)
x.    From a commercial point of view, three project participants are now in a stronger position
than they were when the Project started. BHL has increased its market share from about 10
percent to 30 percent and is now the largest foamed panel maker in the Czech Republic. Thermo
King Frigera has concluded a Joint Venture partnership with Thermo King US making them the
lead designers of a new bus air conditioning system that Thermo King will market worldwide.
Ekotez, one of the two partners in the 3R scheme, has carved out a significant share of the
refrigerant recovery machine market in Western Europe with a machine originally designed for
local use. The refrigeration division of CKD will find new business in retrofitting industrial
systems that they originally installed, and will be well positioned to survive the future
restructuring of the CKD engineering empire.



lv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
xi.   The Czech ODS project was the first of its kind to be designed and implemented in
Central Europe. The lessons learned from this project will be invaluable to future projects of its
kind. They include:
xii.  Legal and Regulatory Framework. The establishment and improvement of the proper
legal and regulatory framework, and the institutional system were essential for the positive
outcome of the project. The 1995 Czech law made manufacturing, importing and exporting
CFCs, including products containing regulated substances, illegal from January 1, 1996 in
accordance with MP commitments. In addition, in January 1, 1997, a ban was imposed on the
production of HCFCs and use of these substances in propellants. This legislation has been
instrumental in ensuring that zero ODS and not transitional (i.e. HCFC based) substances are
employed in new products manufactured in the Czech Republic. Additional legislation
enforcement and regulatory reforms may be considered in order to ensure that Reclaim Centers
in the 3R scheme are put to use.
xiii.  Until recovered refrigerants are reclaimed instead of simply being re-used after recovery,
the 3R scheme cannot be considered successful. The reclaim and refrigerant testing equipment
provided may, unless this problem is solved, turn out to be redundant. However, this will not
affect the amount of refrigerants recovered, a factor which is driven by the high market value of
recoverable refrigerants. As long as the value of CFC-12 remains higher than a mechanic's daily
wage, it can safely be assumed that refrigerants will continue to be recovered at the high rates,
making this scheme one of the most effective in the world in terms of reducing refrigerant
consumption. Specific lessons learned for the 3R which include: a) financial incentives are the
most important factors in encouraging compliance with the scheme; b) duty levels should be
easily variable enabling the redemption price of recovered refrigerants to be "fine tuned" as
conditions change; and c) the commercial refrigeration sector, rather than the domestic sector
should be targeted as the primary source of recoverable refrigerants.
xiv.  Major Factors Affecting the Project: The Czech ODS project was the first of its kind to
be designed and implemented in Central Europe. To some degree all sub projects experienced a
learning curve as ideas and technologies imported from the West proved less mature than they
appeared. The feasibility study on CFC-12 and CFC- 11 production conversion at Spolek became
redundant shortly after the Project start-up, when it became obvious without carrying out a study
that there was no room in the World for another HFC refrigerant producer. BHL (a foamed panel
manufacturer) found that the use of HCFC-141b as a foaming agent belied its description as a
simple "drop-in" replacement for CFC-1 1 and was obliged to solve technical problems with little
outside help.
xv.   Legislation adopted in 1993 to encourage the recovery of refrigerants by imposing a
heavy excise duty on CFCs backfired to some degree. The proportion of refrigerants recovered
from service operations is possibly the highest in the world, yet the scheme does not work as
designed and may be imposing a heavy unseen cost on the Czech economy in the form of higher



v -
refrigeration equipment failure rates. The origin of this problem lies in the high duty that was
originally imposed to promote CFC refrigerant recovery by artificially increasing its value .
xvi.  Recipient Participation. Many of the Project's achievements were due to the exemplary
cooperation of the sub-project participants in successfully tackling the challenges that emerged
during implementation. CKD Kompressori, BHL, Thermo King, Ekotez and Spolek all adapted
quickly to these challenges. CKD Kompressori changed the equipment for which retrofit
methodologies were to be developed in mid-project, BHL persisted in solving the problems that
beset their foam project, and Thermo King changed their approach to retrofitting their own
refrigerated truck testing facility.
xvii.  Bank Performance.   The Bank's performance  in preparation, appraisal and
implementation was satisfactory, despite three changes in task manager during the project cycle.
The Bank's missions were staffed with highly qualified professionals in financial, environmental
and technical fields. The priorities both of the Czech Republic and GEF were appropriately
addressed to implement the Montreal Protocol and its related amendments. The project was
innovative and pioneering, but could have been simpler. More operational support could have
been provided during implementation, especially in the start-up phase, and particularly on
training in procurement and project accounting.
xviii. Implementation Structure.  It is felt that the Project would have progressed more
smoothly had the status of the PIU and its manager been higher. The PIU manager was only able
to advise the parties concerned when disputes arose between the three ministries involved in the
project; a more proactive role could have facilitated project operation.
xix   Commercial Motivation.  Overall, performance was best in sub-projects in which
participants had a real commercial interest in the project. The smoothest project implementation
took place at BHL, Ekotez and Thermo King. Difficulties at Spolek and CKD were partly due to
the fact that the project activities related to only a small part of their business.
xx.   Sustainability and Future Applications. The principal challenge for the future is to make
the entire 3R scheme operation reach its anticipated capacity. Ideas have been taken from
neighboring countries, such as the "Green Card " from the Hungarian 3R scheme. An awareness
raising campaign has been launched that will make end users demand this card from refrigeration
technicians. The Mission recommended that money from the Czech Environmental Fund be
used to subsidize the redemption price of new refrigerants and "pump prime" at the reclaim
facility. With a reasonable throughput, the operating costs of the reclaim center should be much
lower than their operators estimate, and it should be possible to permanently offer a better price
for recovered refrigerants. A redemption price 80 percent of the current value of CFC-12 would
give an ample margin to cover reclaim center running costs, and would likely be sufficient for
service technicians to choose to sell the center recovered refrigerant rather than re-use it directly.
xxi.  None of the three implemented sub projects runs a significant risk of premature failure.
The technologies introduced in compressor and cooling system manufacturing are based on HFC
refrigerants, a technology that has become standard practice in the rest of the world. Whilst
HFCs possess zero Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP), they have a significant Global Warming



- vi -
Potential (GWP). A variety of low GWP refrigerants will doubtless emerge over the next decade
as this environmental issue is tackled.
xxii. The enduring value of the sub project lies not so much in the development of a particular
equipment modification or retrofit methodology for specific refrigerants, but rather in the support
given to the enterprises concerned in solving these kinds of problems. Before the Ozone layer
became a concern, refrigeration engineering was largely a static industry, so the consequences of
using different fluids as refrigerants would never have been investigated by a commercial
company. The experience of participating in this project will enable CKD and Thermo King to
solve similar engineering problems in the future for another generation of refrigeration engineers.
xxiii. Demonstration Value and Replicabiliy. The BHL foam project has developed techniques
of using both low ODS (HCFC-141b) and zero ODS (HFC-134a & C02) that are already being
copied by other foamed panel makers in the Czech Republic. Willingness to share their
experiences in using ODS foaming agent substitutes was an implied condition of project
participation for all enterprises. BHL has hosted a number of workshops attended by other
Czech manufacturers in which their experiences in using new foaming agents are shared.
Furthermore, although the foam test laboratory supplied under the project is located on BHL's
premises, it is accessible to other foam users for test and development work.
xxiv. Global significance. The project has a significant regional and potentially global impact.
Lessons learned from the Czech 3R project are important for the development of future projects
worldwide. Thermo King and CKD export extensively throughout the former Soviet bloc,
consequently, the cooling system retrofit methodologies developed, will have a positive impact
on CFC phaseout in these countries. Retrofit manuals have been produced in Russian, Czech and
English to maximize the project impact.



PART I.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
Project Context
1.    The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP), signed in 1987, are
international environmental agreements which call for the phaseout of substances that deplete
the stratospheric ozone layer (hereafter "regulated substances"). More than 160 countries
representing over 95 percent world consumption of these regulated substances have ratified
the MP and Vienna Convention. As of Januray 1, 1996 the MP with its amendments and
adjustments mandates the complete phaseout of production and consumption of a number of
ozone depleting substances (ODS) in developed countries. All industrialized countries have
undertaken comprehensive national programs to develop cost-effective strategies to phase-out
the use of these substances in the various end-user sectors. The largest family of ODS is
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which are widely used in various industrial applications
including domestic, commercial and industrial refrigeration and air conditioning, flexible and
rigid insulation foam, and in numerous other applications such as aerosol propellants, and
solvents.
2.    The Czech Republic (CR), was the largest producer and an important consumer of the
regulated substances in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) until 1995. In 1992 a
comprehensive Country Program study for the Phaseout of ODS in the former Czech and
Slovak Federal Republic (CSFR) was completed with Bank support. The study served as the
basis for establishing priorities for the Czech Government and for identifying key policy and
regulatory measures which would support a cost effective phaseout, and minimize disruptions
to the industrial sectors which utilize ODS. The activities funded under this Project are
included in priority activities identified in the Country Program.
3.   In 1991, the former CSFR's consumption of regulated ODS was 3935 metric tons (t)
(equivalent to 3759 ODP weighted tons), which amounts to a per-capita consunption of 0.22
kg. The Czech Republic accounted for 60 percent of the total consumption in the former
CSFR. The percentage breakdowns for ODS consumption in the former CSFR are outlined
in the chart below:
C S F R 's co n s u m p tio n of re g u la te d O D S
F oa m s
Solve n ts                             A e ros o Is
2 5 %                                  41%
R e frig e ra tio n
2 7 %



-2 -
4.    The Czech Republic was one of the first countries eligible for grant funding from the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) to launch a comprehensive Ozone Depleting Substances
(ODS) phaseout program. In 1992, the Government of the Czech Republic requested World
Bank assistance in the preparation of a GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project.  Project
preparation and implementation took place simultaneously with the economic transition and
industrial restructuring of the country. The financial viability of enterprises selected for
Project participation had therefore been subject to prior investigation.
5.    Rationale for GEF Involvement. The project was developed and structured based on
specific ODS phaseout requirements in the Czech Republic as outlined in the Country
Program and the general project eligibility criteria guidelines of the GEF Scientific and
Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). GEF funding was obtained on the basis of the Czech
Republic's eligibility for GEF assistance, i.e. its classification as a developing country, and
ineligibility for funding from the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol. The government completed a Country Program to succeed the former CSFR's
ratification of the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol.
Project Objectives
6.    The principal objective of the Project was to assist the Czech Republic in the phaseout
of ODS production and consumption in a cost effective manner by the year 1996, as
mandated by the Montreal Protocol, its amendments and adjustments. Specifically the
Project was to assist the Czech Republic to: (a) initiate the phaseout of the production of
CFCs; (b) phase-in the operation of a national network for refrigerant (CFC- 11 and CFC- 12)
recovery/reclamation/recycling (3R); and (c) support applied engineering efforts to use ODS
substitutes in manufactured goods (mainly refrigeration and commercial/industrial cooling
applications), thereby reducing both the immediate and future needs for regulated substances.
GEF support provided an incentive for the early adoption of ODS phaseout activities and
captured additional environmental and economic benefits which otherwise would have been
lost or delayed.
Evaluation of Objectives
7.    The above objectives proved to be correct and the strategy employed to achieve the
overall project objective of assisting the phase out of CFC use in the Czech Republic played
an important role in the outcome of the project.
8.    The tactics employed to provide this strategic support were the introduction of non-
ODS technologies at key enterprises where maximum demonstration value could be gained.
This entailed a secondary objective in line with more general GEF objectives, namely to
provide technical innovation that would benefit the country concerned and realize global
environmental benefits. The project scope and basic design did not need to be and was not
changed.
9.    Project milestones for the primary objective were clear since implementation of the
project took place within the defining framework of the Czech Environmental Law. The
framework established dates for the ending of CFC use in all applications and HCFCs in new
equipment (see para. 14. below).



-3 -
10.   Evidence that secondary objectives were being attained would be harder to discern,
given that the country went through an economic transition during the project preparation and
implementation period. As a result there was much less stability in the legal/regulatory,
ownership and market frameworks. The actual success factors or objectives indicators of the
post-project business position of the project enterprises, would depend largely on the degree
of adoption of technologies developed under the project.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.   The objectives of the Project were fully achieved. All ODS production and use of
new CFCs was phased out through the implementation of the sub-projects and enactment of
relevant legislation. The project suffered some bureaucratic delays (mainly due to some
delays in the setting-up and full operation of the PIU) and was finally initiated in February
1995. On January 1 1996, a ban on ODS production and import was imposed in accordance
with Montreal Protocol commitments (see Project-wide Elements below). When the project
closed in early 1998, it was one of the first successfully completed ODS phaseout projects in
the world.
12.  In line with the more general GEF objectives, the secondary project objective was
realized through the introduction of three different types of technology: a) refrigerant
recovery and reclaim; b) retrofit of existing refrigeration equipment with non-ODS
refrigerants; and, c) non-ODS foaming agents for coldroom panel manufacturing. All this
technology was innovative as it introduced established Western practices to the Czech
Republic.
13.   The retrofit project consisted essentially of validating techniques developed in
Western countries on Czech equipment and documenting an approved methodology for end
users.  In the case of the foam project, the established western technology was not
immediately suitable, and required considerable development before an acceptable product
could be made.
14.   Project-wide Factors.  A legislative framework was created to support Project
implementation. The elements relating to this Project are:
i)    1993 - imposition of an excise duty on the import and production of CFCs;
ii)   1995 - Ban on the import, export and production of CFCs (as of January 1, 1996)
and production and use of HCFCs in new equipment (as of January 1, 1997),
although its use for service will be allowed until 2015.
This framework was vital to the Project's success by making CFC phaseout mandatory. The
standards imposed by HCFC legislation exceed both EU and MP requirements. This has
ensured that zero ODS solutions have been found for new refrigeration equipment and for the
manufacturing of foamed panels.
15.   Sub-project 1. This sub-project involved funding a feasibility study to enable the
chemical producer Spolek to change CFC-12 and CFC-1 1 production to new refrigerants.
Cursory investigations into the world market potential for HFC-134a showed that the
establishment of production facilities for this refrigerant at Spolek would not be a sound



-4 -
policy. Similar conclusions were quickly drawn regarding HCFC-22 production. Money
destined for these activities was subsequently used for sub-project 2, Refrigeration Recovery
and Reclamation (3R).
16.   Sub-project 2.   With the Refrigerant Recovery and Recycling (3R) Scheme,
difficulties were experienced in using both imported technology and implementing western
concepts of how such a scheme should be organized. Refrigerant reclaim equipment supplied
by a western manufacturer failed to perform to acceptable standards. Implementing the
accepted western model of 3R scheme organization was equally challenging. Globally, the
demonstration value of this project has been very high, but ironically in a negative sense.
Groups organizing 3R schemes in Poland, Slovenia and Hungary have learnt from the
understandable mistakes made with the Czech scheme and consultants preparing regional 3R
schemes in Russia have studied the Czech experience carefully.
17.   This sub-project involved setting up a refrigerant recovery scheme based on a
refrigerant reclaim facility that would convert refrigerants to new product standards and
enable them to be re-used without damaging refrigeration equipment. A long-term training
and re-training program managed by the Association of Refrigeration Engineers supported the
3R scheme. More than 2000 refrigeration technicians were trained. Advanced methodology,
techniques, equipment, relevant legislation and regulations were introduced and applied by
refrigeration service technicians for home and industrial appliances. During the first year of
operation (1993-94), there was a significant decrease in the consumption of new CFC-12
refrigerants. Six tons of CFC-12 were used from the installed reclaim facility capacity of at
least 150 tons', a dramatic 42 percent reduction. Although this result made the scheme one of
the most successful worldwide, there was an economic cost. Technicians collecting the
refrigerants have bypassed the reclaim facility and directly re-used contaminated refrigerants.
The use of these contaminated refrigerants is believed to have increased the frequency of
refrigeration equipment failures, especially in small hermetic systems2.
18.   The Czech 3R scheme suffered from being the first in Eastern and Central Europe,
and from being implemented more or less simultaneously with schemes in Western countries.
Mistakes were made, given limited experience on which to draw from.
19.   Technology transfer has not been solely from West to East. A participant in the 3R
scheme (Ekotez), manufactures portable Recovery Machines that were originally designed for
the Czech market. These machines have since become the best selling Recovery Machines in
Western Europe under different brand names of which the "Baby R" is the most sought after.
1  20 tons of CFC-I I have been reclaimed. This entails the obvious cost of repairing the failed equipment,
and a less obvious cost related to food losses resulting from the failure of small commercial systems. These are
potentially much greater.
d and another 60 tons have been offered. There is no market for this. Recommendations are made (see Section
D) that might identify a market.
2 This entails the obvious cost of repairing the failed equipment, and a less obvious cost related to food losses
resulting from the failure of small commercial systems. These are potentially much greater.



- 5 -
20.   Sub project 3. Equipment retrofit projects were carried out at two enterprises, CKD
an industrial compressor manufacturer, and Thermo King Czech Republic (originally
Frigera), a manufacturer of transport refrigeration systems.  Both companies formerly
exported equipment all over the Soviet bloc. The documentation of retrofit techniques
developed by these companies for their equipment will enable users of their equipment to
retrofit to non-ODS refrigerants as CFC use is phased out in CIS countries. Retrofit manuals
have been produced in English, Russian and Czech.
21.   All new equipment produced by these companies is now  specified for HFC
refrigerants3.
22.   Small amounts of HCFC-22, the major component in the MP-664 (R-401b) retrofit
fluid used in the associated refrigeration equipment, will continue to be used at the Thermo
King Czech Republic truck testing station. Emissions will be negligible. After retrofit, the
refrigeration equipment has shown an improvement in energy efficiency of some 8 percent,
thereby reducing the Global Warming impact of the Project.
23.   The CKD element of the sub project had originally been based on the retrofit of a
district heating heat pump. This was changed in mid-project because there was limited
demonstration value of a large screw compressor retrofit. The compressor types finally
chosen were the KBP range (300-600 kW) and the CJ range (50-150 kW). The available
"park" of refrigerants present in this equipment in the Czech Republic has been estimated at
280 tons and 100 tons of CFC-12 respectively, which will eventually become available to the
3R scheme.
24.   Sub project 4. Techniques for foaming Polyurethane insulation used in coldroom
panels were developed at BHL. Significant problems were experienced in using what was
thought to be a straightforward "drop-in" replacement for CFC-I 1. Foaming temperatures
were higher than predicted and two foaming tables became warped. In response, a low ODS
transitional replacement (HCFC-141b) was used, and the zero ODS mixture (an HFC-
134a/CO2 blend) currently in use was developed by BHL with the help of laboratory facilities
supplied under the project. Nevertheless, problems are ongoing and the laboratory continues
to be used intensively. BHL has shared its findings with other panel manufacturers via a
series of foam workshops. The laboratory facilities are located on BHL's premises but are
accessible to other panel makers and foam users.
25.   The HFC-134alCO2 blend allows a serviceable product to be made at a reasonable
cost using a zero ODS blowing agent. The conductivity of the insulating foam being used is
about 8 percent greater than the original CFC- Il blown foam. The foamed panels have had
to be made thicker to offset increased energy consumption.
26.   Project implementation has improved foaming techniques and reduced amounts lost in
offcuts from 25 percent to a few percent.
3 Use of HCFC refrigerants in new equipment has been banned since January 1997 under the Czech
Environmental Law, although its use for service will be allowed until 2015.
4 A drop-in replacement refrigerants for CFC-12 based on HCFC-22 which is manufactured by Dupont (US).



- 6 -
27.   Global Benefits. The global impact of the project is considerable. Lessons learnt
from the Czech 3R project will inform the development of similar projects worldwide. The
cooling system retrofit methodologies will benefit end users of Thermo King and CKD
equipment all over the former Soviet bloc, and will help reduce the economic impact of
phasing out CFC refrigerants in these countries (see below "Demonstration Value").
28.  Innovation.. Western practice in ODS substitution was introduced into the Czech
Republic. In some cases the transfer of technology was relatively painless (as with Sub
project 3 - Retrofit), in others it proved to be more challenging (as with Sub project 4 -
foaming). In the case of the 3R project, the technology was appropriate but the concept of
scheme organization was not. A way of making the scheme function properly has yet to be
found.
29.   Most technologies on which the Project was based on are the "technologies of
choice". BHL is the exception, as their current zero ODS foaming agent (HFC-134a & C02
blend) represents a somewhat esoteric choice.
30.   Demonstration Value and Replicabiliy.  The BHL foam project has developed
techniques of using both low ODS (HCFC-141b) and zero ODS (HFC-134a & C02) that are
copied by other foamed panel makers in the Czech Republic. Willingness to share their
experiences in using ODS foaming agent substitutes was an implied condition of project
participation for all enterprises, although only BHL was required to share technical
information with potential competitors. BHL have hosted a number of workshops attended
by other Czech manufacturers where they shared their experiences of using new foaming
agents. The foam test laboratory supplied under the project is located on BHL's premises but
is accessible to other foam users for test and development work.
31.   The refrigeration equipment retrofit methodologies developed by Thermo King and
CKD for their own equipment are generally applicable to similar systems from different
manufacturers. Their dissemination via manuals in Czech, Russian and English will promote
the retrofit of a wide range of cooling equipment in CIS and Eastern European countries.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
32.   The project was the first of its kind to be designed in Central Europe. Work started in
1992 at a time when there was little experience in the effectiveness of regulatory measures on
ODS phaseout. Many different technologies were also being discussed at the time but there
was little experience in their practical implementation.
33.   Each sub-project participant experienced a learning curve. Sub-project 1 was literally
overtaken by events when it became obvious that the conversion of Spolek's CFC-12
production to HFC- 134a would be counter-productive. BHL found that the use of HCFC-
141b as a foaming agent (a transitional now abandoned) belied its description as a simple
"drop-in" replacement for CFC- 11. Considerable test work was required before a reliable
product could be developed. It was initially not anticipated how important the foam test
laboratory supplied under the project would turn out to be.



-7 -
34.   The legislation adopted in 1993 to impose an excise duty on refrigerants reflected the
wisdom of the time. No one could have predicted that this could actually be too high. On the
one hand, the measure succeeded by reducing refrigerant service consumption by 20 percent,
but on the other, failed by making refrigerants so expensive that only a small amount was
taken to the Reclaim Centers funded under the project. Subsequent legislation raised this
level still further. 3R schemes developed later were able to learn from the Czech experience.
The Hungarian scheme was designed to be less dependent on central refrigerant processing, a
modification that would be difficult to make at this stage to the Czech scheme.
35.   The flexible attitude demonstrated by the sub-project participants was a major factor
in their success in tackling the challenges that emerged during implementation. CKD (sub-
project 3) changed the subject of their demonstration retrofit to cooling systems that had been
used widely in the former Czechoslovakia and exported in large numbers. Thermo King
accepted a consultant's advice and revised their method of retrofitting their truck testing
facility. BHL solved the challenges of HCFC-141b foaming and continue to solve the
problems caused by the C02/HFC-134a blend.
36.   The 3R scheme is the only sub-project that has not fully been successful as far as
reclamation is concerned. The largest factor affecting this scheme is the current value of
refrigerants. The present high value of $22/kg is not the result of the government excise duty,
the original cause of its price rise. It reflects world prices, and has exacerbated the problem
of making the 3R scheme work as intended. A number of approaches are being taken (see
Section D below). Advice has been sought from a UK firm which successfully operates a
refrigerant reclaim operation. Hungary's experience with technician certification and public
awareness raising has been tapped.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
37.   The sustainability of this project will depend on the sub-project enterprises' continued
use of non-ODS technologies in the future. This is ensured by the fact that importing into or
manufacturing ODS in the Czech Republic is forbidden by law. Ideally the project should
have achieved this without compromising economic performance.  Second, the new
technologies introduced under the project constitute long term options that will not need to be
changed in order for enterprises to stay competitive. Moreover, these technologies should not
exhibit other negative environmental effects such as increased GWP which would require
further technology changes as these issues are addressed.
38.   From a business point of view, three project participants are now stronger than when
the Project started. Despite technical difficulties, BHL have increased their market share
from approximately 10 percent to 30 percent. Thermo King Frigera concluded a Joint
Venture partnership with Thermo King US. They are now the lead designers of a new bus air
conditioning system based on HFCs that will be marketed world wide. Ekotez, one of the
two partners in the 3R scheme has carved out a significant share of the refrigerant recovery
machine market in Western countries. The refrigeration division of CKD will find new
business in retrofitting industrial systems originally installed by them, and will be well
positioned to survive the future restructuring of the CKD engineering empire.



- 8 -
39.   These positive developments are related to the exposure enterprises received from the
new zero ODS technologies. Spolek is the only company that has yet to gain from Project
participation. However, if the problems of the 3R scheme are resolved, this may change since
Spolek is an operator of one of the two refrigerant reclaim centers. From a technical
standpoint, the facilities provided are satisfactory for the purposes required5 and are likely to
remain so in the medium term. Sustainability of this sub-project is threatened by the current
non-performance of the scheme as designed. Unless a way is found (e.g. incentives for
redemption prices and a change in the regulatory framework) to encourage technicians to sell
recovered refrigerants to the reclaim centers instead of re-using them directly, SPOLEK sub-
project enterprise, one of the reclaim center operators, will eventually lose interest and the
equipment provided will gather dust on their premises. The proposal of both reclaim centers
to offer available reclaim capacity to neighboring countries could be taken into consideration.
40.   The impact of the Czech 3R scheme on replicability is somewhat ironic. Neighboring
countries have shown special interest to the Czech experience, yet schemes around the World
are urged not to repeat the understandable mistakes made in the Czech Republic.
41.   With respect to equipment Retrofit at Thermo King and CKD, Sub-project 3,
technologies developed for the production of new equipment based on HFC refrigerants are
the technologies of choice world-wide for CFC-12 retrofit. These are unlikely to need
replacing in the medium term. Technologies developed under this sub-project have been
integrated into the new commercial activities developed with the US JV partner.
42.   The retrofit technologies developed by these companies will be used throughout the
Czech Republic and also in much of the former USSR where both companies, especially the
former Frigera company, exported their equipment.
43.   The foaming technology currently used by BHL in Sub-project 4 may not be the last
one to be used. For cost reasons BHL chose to use a non-flammable substance for an
application where Cyclopentane (CP) is frequently used. Other developments are likely to be
available in 1-2 years (e.g. HFC-245a). These may offer a better final product than the
current HFC-134a/C02 mixture without introducing flammability concerns. The most
important criterion would be the performance of the foam as a heat insulator, given that other
factors such as metal adhesion and tensile strength are unchanged. Making panels thicker and
thus more expensive has not adversely affected BHL's business performance.
44.   The C02/HFC-134a mixture employed by BHL is an established technology, but
sourced locally. Its demonstration value has been communicated to other companies by a
series or workshops, and by the testing facility established at BHL.
45.   Whether or not the HFC-134a/C02 technology is itself sustainable depends on the
success BHL have in solving their latest technical problems and the performance of new
foaming systems such as HFC-245a.. Changes made to equipment are relevant for any new
foaming system as they enable the foaming procedure itself to be carried out more
5   With the exception of the first reclaim machine purchased. This will reclaim refrigerants to the standard required, but
only after the refrigerants have made several passes through the machine



9-
effectively6. That, in conjunction with the testing facilities provided under the project, put
BHL (and the Czech PU foaming industry generally) in a good position to assimilate new
foaming technologies.
46.   The current zero ODS choice is not the last. The test facilities at BHL will enable
appropriate solutions to be identified and successfully implemented as new foaming
technologies are developed world wide. These should result in improvements in insulation
efficiency leading to lower energy consumption of cooling (and possibly heating) equipment
with a reduction in indirect Global Warming. The already significant global benefits of this
project will therefore continue to be reaped for an indefinite period into the future.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
47.   The working relationships of the groups involved in the Project, namely the Bank, the
grant Recipient institutions, the MOE, the IPB Bank, and the five enterprises in receipt of
grants were excellent. Spot checks during supervision missions were all that was required to
establish that rules regarding GEF eligibility criteria, and procurement and financial reporting
guidelines, were being followed. Bank missions provided useful guidance on technical
issues, project management, and institutional strengthening advice to the PIU, the financial
intermediary and the grant recipient enterprises.
48.   The Bank's performance in preparation, appraisal and implementation was
satisfactory despite the task manager being changed three times throughout the project cycle.
The Bank's missions were staffed with professionals well qualified in environmental,
financial, economic and technical fields. Both the country's and GEF's priorities were
properly addressed to implement the Montreal Protocol and its related amendments. The
project was innovative and pioneering but its design however could have been simpler.
Supervision was intensive and most missions were staffed with ODS phaseout and
environmental specialists. More operational support could have been provided during
implementation, especially in the start-up phase and particularly on training in procurement
and project accounting.
F.    RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
49.   The Recipient's performance was satisfactory throughout the whole project cycle.
Performance during implementation progressively improved, thanks to the professionalism
and commitment of the PIU director and his staff, who provided effective project
management and coordination between sub projects. All main legal covenants were met in a
timely fashion, given that the project closing date was extended twice. The extensions were
required because of technical and procurement problems, the change of sub-project designs,
and difficulties regarding the introduction and operation of the 3R scheme. Delays continue
on the introduction of legislation and incentives to make the 3R scheme work as intended.
50.   All Czech agencies involved with the Project have performed in an exemplary
fashion. It remains to be seen whether the institutional set-up for the 3R scheme will enable
6   These equipment modifications involve the ability to obtain good foam distribution and control foaming
temperatures closely during the foaming process



- 10-
the private sector to carry out refrigerant reclaim efficiently and economically.  The
performance of the PIU, particularly of the Head of the PIU, was outstanding throughout the
whole three and a half years of the implementation period. Project implementation and
financial management was punctual and efficient.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
51.   Overall performance of the project was satisfactory. The principle objective of
phasing out ODS emissions in the Czech Republic was achieved by eliminating their use in
equipment manufacturing, curtailing production at the country's only producer, and
encouraging the re-use of ODS used for the servicing of refrigeration equipment.
Consumption of new CFCs in the Czech Republic has been reduced to zero. Very high levels
of existing CFCs are being re-used during the course of service work.
52.   Had the Czech government simply enacted legislation to ban ODS import and
production, these results would have been eventually achieved. However it can be reliably
asserted that had GEF funding for these sub-projects not been available, the costs incurred by
the industries concerned would have been considerable. GEF funding facilitated the timely
introduction of non-ODS technologies in key CFC user areas. Technical assistance supplied
under the Project enabled best international practice to be identified and contacts to be made
with suitable equipment and chemical suppliers world-wide, and with world class technical
advisors. The technologies demonstrated on these sub-projects will be adopted throughout
the country, and in the case of sub-project 3, throughout the former Eastern Bloc. Their
assimilation by other companies should be relatively painless thanks to their prior
implementation under this project.
53.   The performance of the 3R scheme cannot be considered satisfactory. About 200 ton
of CFC-12 are being re-used annually, but it may become an additional cost to the users of
refrigeration equipment in the future. The mistakes made are understandable and due largely
to the pioneering nature of the 3R project.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
54.   No future GEFtBank operations in support of ODS phaseout are envisaged. However
the Government needs to address the issues impending the implementation of the 3R scheme
as recommended in this chapter. Future activities will largely be devoted to finding ways of
making the 3R scheme work as designed. The example of the Hungarian 3R scheme has been
used to identify activities that should help turn this around, including the idea of the "Green
Card" scheme' from the Hungarian 3R scheme. It is hoped that awareness raising schemes
will make refrigeration system owners demand this qualification of technicians who repair
their equipment.
55.   An awareness raising scheme among commercial and industrial users has been carried
out in Prague under the auspices of the Ministry of the Environment. One of the failings of
the Czech 3R scheme was to target the domestic sector rather than the commercial and
7   This identifies the holder as having been formerly trained in recovery and retrofit techniques.



industrial sectors which are the most important and largest suppliers of used refrigerants for
reclamation.
56.   In order for this sub-project to be salvaged, attention has to be given to ways of
achieving compliance with the scheme. The most important lever is financial incentive.
Currently the price being offered for recovered refrigerants is $US6/kg, however the street
value is $US 1 8-22/kg. Based on foreign models, operating costs should not exceed $US2/kg.
A buy price substantially closer to the street price should be tried. It is known from an
anonymous survey that technicians on average collect 100 kg of refrigerants per year, which
translates to extra earnings of approximately $US1,000 to $US2,0008. Unless this black
revenue is compensated it is clear that the practice will continue. Recommendations to
facilitate this are made below.
57.   Recommendations. Funds should be provided to cover the full operating costs of the
reclaim centers for a limited period. Offering a redemption price equal to the current selling
price of CFC-12 would increase the amount of refrigerants presented for reclaim and would
enable the reclaim scheme proprietors to know their true running costs. Foreign examples
suggest these should not exceed $US2/kg. A competitive situation should develop between
the two centers to allow the real price of recovered refrigerants to emerge. It is understood
that the Czech Environmental Fund could in principle provide these funds.
58.   The Reclaim Center operators are wary of the planned awareness campaign to foster
recovery in the commercial sector, fearing that large amounts of CFC- 11 will be presented for
which there is currently no market. Only CFC-l 1, CFC-12 and R-502 should initially be
solicited.
59.   Proposals by the MOE to incinerate CFC-1 1 in a facility planned at Spolek should be
re-considered. A market may exist in the Czech Republic and neighboring countries among
the operators of older industrial equipment not capable of economic retrofit to CFC
substitutes. To find alternative solutions to expensive incineration, the PIUs recommended
an informal survey of the region to determine whether such an opportunity for CFC-1 1 re-use
exists.
60.   BHL will continue development work to solve their problems with use of their new
zero-ODS foaming agent.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
61.   All projects except the 3R project and Spolek's original project to make HFC-134a
proceeded according to plan. Important technical lessons were leamt along the way,
particularly by BHL. First, the warranty of foaming chemical suppliers on the performance
of their foams, could not fully be accepted and second, a testing facility was necessary to
verify performance of new foaming alternatives.
s    500 technicians participated. Extrapolated for the number of technicians in the country, this figure matches the
amount of refrigerants that macro statistics suggest is being recovered and re-used.



- 12-
62.   The major lessons learned relate to the partial failure of the 3R scheme. These can be
summarized as follows:
i)    Financial incentive to technicians is far and away the most important factor
in encouraging compliance;
ii)    Duty levels should be easily variable (e.g. by ministerial decree), enabling the
price of CFC refrigerant to be controlled, considering proper prices with
respect to other refrigerants and
iii)   The domestic sector was targeted rather than the commercial/industrial sector.
63.   Planning was a vital element in the success of the Project. When the Project was
designed in 1992, the technologies were largely untried in the West. Sufficient flexibility was
incorporated into the original project design to enable changes to be made without great
disruption. A marketing study on the demand and use of CFC-l1 and CFC-12, and a
feasibility study on the introduction and operation of the 3R scheme at preparation stage
should have been prepared. This could have prevented many of the scheme.'s problems that
were encountered. It was fortunate that a comprehensive testing laboratory had been built
into the original design of sub-project 4 (BHL). Its value has proved much greater than
anticipated. Funds were re-directed from the Spolek production study when it became
obvious that the subject of the study was no longer relevant. A covered storage facility was
financed by re-allocated project funds when new Czech legislation required its use for
refrigerant storage. The shape of the CKD component changed significantly as the result of
new thinking on the project impact.
64.   The Project would have progressed more smoothly if the PIU had been fully
operational by the time of effectiveness, and had the status of the PIU and its manager been
higher. Bureaucratic and legislative problems could have been resolved earlier and more
effectively had the PIU manager enjoyed the rank of Director of a ministerial department.
Responsibilities for legislation were split between three ministries (Ministry of the
Environment, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Justice) and co-ordination between these
would have been improved. The PIU manager can only advise and recommend actions to
these ministries. Ideally the PIU head would possess sufficient rank to enforce legislation
and to actively promote co-ordination between ministries.
65.   Significantly better performance was seen from sub-projects participants who had a
real interest in the project. The smoothest project implementation took place at BHL, Ekotez
and Thermo-King. Difficulties at Spolek and CKD were at least partly due to the fact that the
project activities related to only a small part of their business. The ideal sub-project host
enterprise is a company where the sub-project activity constitutes a major part of their
business activities and where key individuals can be identified. CKD's contribution appeared
in doubt until a new managing director was appointed who took a fresh look at their
contribution.



- 13 -
PART II.
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negliible        Naicale
Macro Policies                      E               El                E                 ,
Sector Policies                  al                                  al
Financial Objectives                 a              El            -l
Institutional Development            a:i
Physical Objectives                 E                /                EE
Poverty Reduction                   E                E                El
Gender Issues                                                        El E 
Other Social Objectives             I                                 E                 /
Environmental Objectives             ,                                E                 El
Public Sector Management            E                1                E                 E
Private Sector Development          E                                 E                 [l
GEF Objectives                                                        E E  El           E
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (v')                       (1)
(Continued)
HighLy
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (1)                       (1)
Identification                      E                                                   El
Preparation Assistance              E                                                   E
Appraisal                           El                                                  E
Supervision                         /                         Cl                        E
Highly



- 15 -
D. Recipient Perfonnahce            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                     (1)                        (/)
Preparation
Implementation                      IC
Covenant Compliance
Operation (ODS Phaseout)                                                               [J
Hisaty                                             Hisaty
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(/)        (/)(/)                      (1



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit/grant/study     Purpose         Year of approval      Status
title
Preceding operations
1.GEF Biodiversity    Forestry/biodiversity  FY93          Completed
Protection Project     protection
Following operations
1. Kyjov Waste Heat   GHG emissions       FY99             Implementation under
Utilization Project    reduction and energy                 way for future
generation                          retroactive financing
2. EU Accession        Least cost planning   FY99           Study under
Environment Study      for wastewater                       preparation
treatment
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    11/91      03/92
Preparation                             10/92            10/92
Appraisal                               08/93            10/93
Negotiations                            07/94            07/94
Board Presentation                      08/94            08/94
Signing                                 09/94            10/94
Effectiveness                           10/94            12/94
Project Completion                      06/96            03/98
Grant Closing                           06/96            03/98



- 17 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal estimate            0.20      1.70     2.30     2.30    2.453*
Actual                                 0.53      1.30     2.01    2.412**
Actual as % of estimate                  31       57       87      98,3
Date of final                                                      23/4/98
disbursement
*      total grant proceeds including foreign exchange gains
**     US$ 41,000 remained undisbursed, unutilized
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ODS Phased out in tons
Estimated in FY                         Actual in FY
'94  1'95    '96    '97      '98    94  '95   '96    '97    '98       Total
Sub-project 1                    2000    2 000    2000       377  2493   2 149   2 020    7039
Sub-project 2             200     200      200     200  757  374    781    270       22    2 204
Sub-project 3             110     110      110     110  =      5      2       1                8
Sub-project 4              80      80       80      80        82    31       31       4      148
Total                     390   2 390    2 390    2 390  7571 838  3 307   2 451   2 046    9 399
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No operation indicators were defined in the project document



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies and Workshops Included in Project
Purpose as defined at       Status                 Impact of study
Study          appraisal/redefined
12/95/OZONE         Sub-project 3                 Implemented    Technical assistance to CKD to modify
J.Petrak             CKD Component                                sub-project to overcome difficulty in
CR                   Develop retrofit techniques                  implementing the original project concept
13/95/Ozone         GEF Vienna Conference         Implemented    Compliance of the CR with the Montreal
V.kehAcek            Technical & advisory support to              Protocol and its Amendments, consequent
CR                  the Czech delegation                         impacts on the Project
TA/GEF/JP            GEF Projects                 Implemented    Environmental policy coordination
E+E Consulting       Services for the organization of             program in the field of air protection and
CR                   the seminar                                  ozone layer
TA/PIRII 1/96        ODS Phase-out Project        Implemented    Review of the implementation progress of
V.kehacek            Technical assistance to the                 individual sub-projects, preparation of sub-
CR                   participating enterprises                    projects' progress reports
TA/ODS/12/97         Technical assistance to sub-  Implemented    Improvement of the 3R scheme
Refrigerant Product    project 2 ( recovery, recycling,
UK                   reclamation)
TA/ODS/02/98         Technical assistance to MoE/PMU Implemented    Preparation of ICR, consultancy services to
Dewpoint Consultants                                             the international workshop
UK                                                I              I
Project/Sub-project             Workshop Activity                     Date               Venue
Sub-project 2           Up-dated technology for ODS handling,   May 1996                Kostelec nad
regulatory framework                   International workshop   Orlici
Sub-project 4           ODS free technology in the manufacturing of  October 1997       Prague
could room panels and insulation foams  International Workshop    Luzec nad
Vltavou
ODS Phase-out Project   Environmental policy coordination       March 1997              Luhacovice
program/air & ozone layer protection    International workshop
ODS Phase-out Project   Czech ODS Project                       March 1998              Prague
International workshop
ODS Phase-out Project   Czech ODS Project                       March 1998              Prague
Local seminar



- 19 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate               Actual
($ thousand)                     ($ thousand)
Item                                      Local   Foreign      Total       Local   Foreign       Total
costs    costs                   costs    costs
Sub-project I                                  0        80            80        50                     50
Spolek                                                                  I
Sub-project 2                                300      1040          1340       114      963          1.077
Spolek                                       150       230           380        18      212           230
EKOTEZ                                        150      810           960        96      751           847
Sub-project 3                                  0       464           464       143      349           492
Thermo King                                            210           210       121      143           264
IKD                                                    254           254        22      206           228
Sub-project 4                               1548       363          1911      1264      554          1.818
BHL
PMU (including financial intennediary)         0       353           353       138      546          684
Total                                       1848    2 300           4148      1709    2412          4.121
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                        Actual
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Item                                      Local    Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign    Total
costs       costs                  costs       costs
1. GEF Grant                           1.456       0.844       2.300       1,245       1.167      2.412
2. Counterpart funds (how much   1,848                          1.848      1.571                   1.571
form enterprises,
3 Amount from the Czech Gov.                                               0.138                  0.138
Total                                  3.304        0.844      4.148       2.954       1.167      4.121
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis ofproject was estimated at appraisal



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Czech Republic
ODS Phaseout
Covenant    Present       Original       Revised       Description of     Comments
Agreem    Section      Type        Status    Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment    Covenant
ent                                                           Date
Grant
Grant   4.01.      1, 2          C         Yearly                        Accounting and      In compliance
(a),(b),(c)                                                      Auditing Program
Grant   6.01       8             C          12/26/94                      Effectiveness      In compliance
(a),(b)
Covenant types:                                                          Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                                    C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation                            CD = complied with after delay
from beneficiaries                                                    CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                               NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding
5. = Management aspects of the project or
executing agency
6. = Environmental covenants
7. = Involuntary resettlement
8.= Effectiveness
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks       US$          Weeks         US$              Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal    0            0            0         0                    3.9         12,400
Appraisal                   0            0            0         0                    4.0         15,000
Negotiations through Board   0           0            0         0                     3.0        10,500
approval
Supervision                 34.0        131,800       44.7     120,000               52.7       118,000
Completion                   0           0            12.0      20,100                0           0
Total              34.0         131,800      56.7      140,100               63.6       155,900



- 21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2     Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.     Developm.  Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                       Status      objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board
Approval
Board Approval through
effectiveness
Supervision 1.            10/94    2       3       E, T             I              I           P
Supervision 2.           08/95      1      2       E                1              1
Supervision 3.            12/95    2       8       E, T             2              1           D
Supervision 4.           04/96    2        3       E, F             2              1           D
Supervision 5.           09/96     1       4       F                I              I
Supervision 6.           02/97     3       5       E, F, T          I              1
Supervision 7.           09/97    2        3       E, F             I
Supervision 8. &         03/98     2       5       E, T             1              1
Completion
Total                              65                       1              1
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F = Financial Analyst               I = Minor or No Problems           P = PIU understaffed
E = Environmental Economist        2 = Moderate Problems               D = Disbursement behind schedule
N = Engineer                       HS = Highly Satisfactory
T = Technical Specialist           S = Satisfactory
P = Procurment Specialist



- 22 -
Appendix A.
SUPERVISION AND COMPLETION MISSION
March 6-12, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
L     Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission9 visited the Czech Republic on March 6-12 1998 to carry out the
supervision and completion mission of the ODS Phase-out Project financed by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). The mission was connected to the third regional ODS Phase-out
workshop with the involvement of nine countries, with about 70 participants, held in Prague on
March 4-6 1998. The workshop was very well organized by Mr. Jaroslav Koubal, Head of the
Ozone Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The mission worked closely with Mr. Jaroslav Koubal,
Head of the PIU and met with Mr. Dobiasovski, of the Air Protection Department of the Ministry
of Environment, and representatives of Investicni And Postovni Banka (IPB, the financial agency),
BHL, Spolek, Ekotez, CKD Compressors and Thermo King (participating enterprises). The list of
people contacted is in Attachment 1. The mission visited three sub-project sites. The mission
wishes to extend its appreciation and gratitude to all individuals met, the Ministry of Environment
(MOE) and the PIU for their hospitality and assistance and congratulates the PIU for the thoughtful
and professional organization of the regional workshop (paragraph 7. of this Aide Memoire). The
rnission's findings and recommendations were discussed with Mr. Dobiasovski of the MOE and are
summarized in this draft Aide-Memoire, which is subject to confinnation by World Bank
management.
IL    Overall Status of Project Implementation
Project Closing Date Extension
2.    Based on the request of MOE, the Bank provided a six months extension of the project
closing date from September 30, 1997 to March 31, 1998 to allow completion of project activities.
As Mr. Jiri I. Skalicky, Minister of Environment was notified by the Bank in January 1998, firther
disbursements from the grant after the March 31 1998 grant closing date, can only be made if
withdrawal applications for expenditures made before the closing date (March 31, 1998) are
received at the Bank's Headquarters by close of business on July 31, 1998, i.e. payments made or
payments due for goods, works and services that have been provided/done prior to the closing date.
Proceeds of the grant remaining unwithdrawn after disbursements made in respect of these
withdrawal applications will be canceled.
9   The mission included Ms. Krisztina Kiss, Team Leader (ECSSD, Hungary Office) and Mr. David
Gibson, Consultant.



- 23 -
Use of Remaining Funds
3.    Of the original grant of 1.7 million SDR (US$ 2.3 million at that time), about US$
107,000 (5% of the grant) not including the Special Account, remain undisbursed today. The
Special Account includes about US$ 20,000 currently. The remaining funds altogether about
US$ 127,000 would be used for the following components:
i)   Project Management: about US$ 10,000 for the PIU and local consultants; US$ 2,200 for
the Financial Intermediary; about US$ 8,000 for training, the organization and all
arrangements for the regional ODS Phaseout Workshop; about US$ 4,000 for foreign
consultant services; about US$ 19,000 for local workshop for Public Awareness Raising
regarding ODS Phaseout;
ii)   Recovery, Reclamation and Recycling (3R) scheme (implemented by Ekotez and
Spolek): about US$ 24,000 for Ekotez' marketing of reclamation and Public Awareness
Raising Campaign at the Prague Refrigeration Fair March 3-6 1998; about US$ 22,800
for forklift equipment for handling the refrigerant storage tanks for Ekotez;
iii)   Non-ODS Insulation Technology implemented by BHL; about US$ 37,000 for improving
their heating system for moulds and auxiliary equipment for their laboratory.
Project Implementation, Financial Intermediary Operation
4.    The PIU's management of the project and the management of the Special Account by IPB
continue to be excellent. Since the last supervision in September 1998, significant progress has
been made. The MOE and IPB made amendments to their agreement taking into account the
proposed changes proposed in the September 1997 Aide Memoire. The PIU handed over the
Audit Report of the Grant Accounts for FY 1997, prepared by Auditors HZ Praha, dated
February 16, 1998 to the mission.
ODS Phaseout Implementation
5.    The Project objective was fully achieved, since all ODS production and all
chlorfluorocarbons (CFCs) use was phased out through the implementation of the sub-projects
and enactment of relevant legislation. Current ODS Consumption, Exports and Imports
Monitoring, Information and Licensing System is managed by the MOE. The MOE also issued
environmental and safety statements for all sub-project companies. For all the completed sub-
projects, relevant local governments issued the operational licenses.
Series of Regional Workshops for knowledge dissemination, exchange of experience, good
practices, transfer of know-how and replicability ofproject results.
6.    The Bank has launched a series of regional workshops for the GEF grant recipient
countries in the region for the exchange of experience and good practices for the phaseout of
ODS. The first workshop for the PIUs and company representatives of the refrigeration and fire
protection sub-sectors of the Czech, Slovenian and Hungarian Projects was held in Budapest in
May 1997. The workshop was considered to be very useful and successful. The relevant



-24 -
counterparts of the Czech and the Slovenian ODS Phaseout Projects have adopted in practice
what was learnt at the workshop. The second workshop on alternative technologies in the
solvents sub-sector and on project management was held by the Slovenian EcoFund and the PIU
in Bled and Ljubljana in October, 1997, this time also with the involvement of the relevant
Polish counterparts. The third regional workshop on ODS phase-out was held in Prague on
March 4-6, 1998, opened by Mr. Erik Geuss, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment,
under the excellent organization of Mr. Koubal, Head of the PIU, with the participation of the PIU
and representatives of MOE, Ekotez, BHL, Thermo King, CKD Compressors and Spolek of the
Czech Republic. The workshop dealt with the 3R scheme, refrigerants in the commercial,
industrial and refrigerated transport sectors, and on preparation of the recipient's contribution to
the ICR, and on project completion and outcome evaluation. Since the Czech project will be the
first one to be completed, five other countries receiving GEF grants for ODS phaseout purposes
were also involved (Slovenia, Hungary, Poland, Belarus and Russia). Lecturers from the UK,
Austria and Belgium were invited to present their 3R schemes. The fourth workshop, most likely
on Public Awareness Raising will be held in Warsaw, Poland. In addition, ODS Phase-out in
October 1998, if possible will be connected to the Nuremberg refrigeration fair. The fifth will be
held in Moscow or Kiev. Further workshop venues and topics will be identified in due course.
HI.   Implementation and Completion of Investment Sub-projects
Sub-project 1.:   Engineering Assistance for ODS Production Phaseout at Spolchemie
(Spolek).
7.    Original plans at Spolek involved the termination of CFC production including the
conversion of their existing CFC-11 and CFC-12 production to HFC-134a and HCFC-22
production. The sub-project consisted of a feasibility study to a) determine whether this was
technically viable and to identify a potential technology supplier; and b) to establish whether
such a strategy made business sense. Before the study had been commissioned. it became
obvious that excess production capacity of HFC-134a existed world-wide and thus converting
Splochemie's production made no sense. Similar conclusions were quickly drawn regarding
HCFC-22 production. In addition, it was found that existing HFC-134a producers were
unwilling to license their technology. Thus a decision was taken to curtail the project and
transfer all funds from this activity to Sub-project 2.
Sub-project 2.:   Establishment and Operation of a CFC Refrigerant Recovery
and Reclamation Scheme
8.    This sub-project comprised activities with two participating enterprises, Spolchemie and
Ekotez. Activities consisted of i) conversion of CFC-l 1 and CFC-12 production facilities at
Spolchemie to a reclaim plant and acquisition and installation of 2 other dedicated proprietary
reclaim machines (one at Spolchemie, the other at EKOTEZ); ii) provision of associated
laboratory testing equipment at both sites; iii) purchase and distribution of recovery machines
and cylinders to service technicians; and iv) training of refrigeration technicians. The sub-project
was supported by legislation which imposed a US$ 6/kg duty on CFC refrigerant. Despite these
actions having been carried out, the scheme has not functioned as designed. The generally



-25 -
perceived reason for this is that the prevailing value of refrigerants makes them unattractive for
service technicians to sell recovered refrigerant to the reclaim centers. The high value of
refrigerants was originally a result of the duty levied, but now reflects prevailing World prices of
around US$18/kg. Statistical information indicates that approximately 200 tons of recovered
CFC-12 are being re-used annually. This amount was supported by the results of an anonymous
questionnaire which showed that on average 100 kgs of refrigerants are being recovered and re-
used by each service technician. Since all technical facilities for reclaim are now in place, the
problem of how to make the scheme work, lies in devising the right incentive to encourage
service technicians to sell their recovered refrigerants to the reclaim cente,r rather than re-useing
it directly. No obvious solution to this problem exists. Discussions on how to create an
appropriate incentive scheme are ongoing. It is acknowledged that the current redemption price
of US$6/kg is inadequate given the prevailing US$ 18/kg price of CFC-12. There is evidence
that the re-use of unprocessed recovered refrigerants is increasing the rate of refrigeration
equipment failures. It is clear that finding a way of making the 3R scheme work properly is a
matter of urgency. Due to the lack of enforcement capacity and weak regulatory framework, it is
difficult to demand that service technicians use the Spolek or EKOTEZ reclaim centers.
9.    The Bank recommends that an estimated amount of CZK 500-600 thousand of central
funds should be provided to cover the full operating costs of the reclaim centers for a limited
period. This would enable them to offer a redemption price equal to the current selling price of
CFC-12 (including other refrigerants) and would enable the reclaim scheme proprietors to know
their true running costs. Foreign examples suggest that their current estimates are very high. The
reclaim centers would claim running costs up to a certain value retrospectively against
demonstrable running costs. Thereafter a competitive situation should develop between the two
centers and a real price for recovered refrigerants should emerge from this process. An
awareness campaign to encourage technicians will also be useful. It is understood that the
reclaim center principals are wary of this because they fear large amounts of CFC- 11 will be
presented (for which there is no market) but little CFC-12. It is recommended that this campaign
be carried out, but that only CFC-12, HCFC-22 and R-502 be solicited. It is known that large
amounts of CFC-1 1 (up to 80 tons) are available.
10.   The Ministry of Environment currently proposes to incinerate CFC-1 1 in an incineration
facility which is planned at Spolek. An exercise is recommended before this takes place that
may obviate this inherently expensive process. It may be that a number of CFC-1 1 plants are in
operation in the Czech Republic and neighboring countries. Many of these may not be capable
of economic retrofit but still have a significant service life left. These are all industrial type
plants with a service life of around 25 years. A 15 year old semi-hermetic centrifugal
compressor plant would be very costly to retrofit with HCFC-123 (the only alternative for these
machines) and replacement would be very expensive. Thus if these could be operated normally
until the end of their service life, both the expense of premature retirement and the cost of
incineration would be avoided. Such machines properly managed use only about 5% of their
system charge (of between 0.5 to 2 tons) per year. Thus the 80 tons of CFC-1 1 thought to be
available could theoretically be used to give about 1800 extra machine years of operation merely
for the cost of processing the refrigerant. Montreal Protocol rules allow trade with other
countries in reclaimed CFC material. Thus neighboring countries (Poland, Slovenia, Hungary,



- 26 -
Slovak) are a potential market for reclaimed CFC-1 1. It is recommended therefore that both the
Czech Ministry of the Environment and the PIU's in these countries be asked to conduct a survey
of these plants with a view to establishing whether a potential market for reclaimed CFC-1 1
exists as described above.
Sub-project 3.:    Introduction of non-ODS Refrigerant in the Commercial, Industrial and
Refrigerated Transport Sectors.
11.   This sub-project essentially involved the development of retrofit methodologies for
industrial and transport refrigeration equipment. This was carried out at two enterprises, Thermo
King Czech Republic and CKD Kompressory. Retrofit methodologies were developed for
standard Frigera transport units produced by the former and widely sold in the former USSR, and
two widely used industrial cooling units produced by the latter. These methodologies were
verified in the field and the procedures published in technical manuals. The transport
refrigeration manual was translated into Russian to facilitate retrofit in the countries of the
former USSR. In both cases existing compressors produced by each enterprise were modified for
HFC-134a, tested and rated for this refrigerant. The sub-project has proceeded satisfactorily and
all actions and disbursements were completed by July 1997.
Sub-project 4.:   Introduction of non-ODS Insulation Technology in Coldroom Panel
Manufacture.
12.   The participating enterprise in this sub-project, Bratri Horakove Ltd. (BHL) is the largest
manufacturer of modular coldroom panels in the Czech Republic. During the course of the
project, several transitional technologies were used before the present zero ODS HFC-134alCO2
blowing agent was adopted. Interim technologies employed were the use of a 50% CFC-1 1
foaming system and the use of HCFC-141b as a blowing agent. The use of HCFC-141b
presented some technical problems related to higher foaming temperatures and the need to keep
these within a critical range. The higher temperatures caused three foaming plates to buckle and
two of these were replaced using spare funds from the project. In addition to the modification of
existing production equipment and the purchase of new equipment, a full foamn testing workshop
was established. A condition of the project was that experience gained in using new foaming
agents and the facilities of the test lab were made available to other foaming companies. Good
relations have been established with other companies and a seminar held attended by these
companies and the major polyurethane foam system and equipment manufacturers. Application
of the HFC-I34a/CO2 technology continues to present some problems. BHL is requesting
support from project funds to finance the solution of this problem, including special testing
equipment purchase. Apart from the mould heating equipment required to solve this problem,
the investment portion of this project has been completed. Procurement is under way and the
sub-project will be successfully completed before the grant closing date.



- 27 -
III.  Implementation Completion Report, Recipient's Evaluation of Project
Implementation.
13.   Five companies who completed the implementation of their respective sub-project have
already prepared a draft sub-project completion reports. The World Bank reviewed these reports
and found them satisfactory both in meeting the requirements of the ICR and in the way they
raised interesting issues related to shifting to and using new ozone-friendly technologies. Bank
Guidelines and Directives for the preparation of the Recipient's Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) were discussed with the PIU. The Recipient's
responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's Operational Manual
Statement and Good Practices (GP) for ICR Preparation. Copies of all relevant parts of the BP
and GP were given earlier to the Grant Recipient. As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the
Recipient's ICR should include a summary not exceeding 10 pages, together with the supporting
background information and annexes.
14.   Project Cost and Financing Plan: To enable a comparison of appraisal and actual project
costs and financing plans, the Recipient should update the relevant tables of Schedule A, B, C, D
and Technical Annex 1. Summary Table of the Project Document.
15.   To enable the Bank to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the
recipient would ensure that information in relation to the grant and technical assistance
components indicated in Attachment 2. of this Aide Memoire is sent to the Bank together with
the updated ODS phaseout, project costs and financing tables. The Terms of References of the
Consultant to assist the PIU and the Bank in the technical, and project objective evaluation is in
Attachment 3. of this Aide Memoire.
16.   Outputs and schedule: To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both
the Borrower's and the Bank's parts to the Bank's Board of Directors by September 30, 1998, as
required, it was agreed that the following timetable would be followed: the PIU to send the Bank
by April 31, 1998 the background information on sub-project components, the updated ODS,
project cost and financing tables, the implementation / disbursement schedule, and the summary
table of all technical assistance and consultancy components.
17.   Coordination of ICR Preparation. The following persons would coordinate the
preparation of the Recipient's and the Bank's preparation of the ICR:
For the Recipient:   Mr. Jaroslav Koubal, Head of the Project Implementation Unit
of the Ministry of Environment
For the World Bank: Ms. Krisztina Kiss
Prague, March 12, 1998.
Krisztina Kiss, Program Team Leader



- 28 -
Attachment 1.
SUPERVISION AND COMPLETION MISSION
March 1998
LIST OF PERSONS CONTACTED
Government of the Czech Republic
Mr. Erik Geuss, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment
Mr. Jiri Dobiasovsky, of the Air Protection Department of the Ministry of Environment,
Mr. Jaroslav Koubal, Head of the Project Implementation Unit
IPB Bank
Mr. Kiril Janatchkov, Head of Branch Office
EKOTEZ
Mr. Frantisek Janda, Director
Dr. Miroslav Benes, Engineer
SPOLEK
Mr. Milos Vanek, Chemical Engineer
Mr. Martin Holub, Marketing Specialist
Mr. Josef Solc, Chemical Engineer
THERMOKING
Mr. Zdenek Kaiser, Director
Mr. Antonin Ryska, Civil Engineer
BHL
Mr. Klement Horak, Owner
Mr. Vaclav Vetrovsky, Civil Engineer
CKD Compressors
Mr. Petr Snapek, Civil Engineer
EKOTRON
Mr. Vaclav Kmoch, Owner



- 29 -
Attachment 2.
Relevant Tables from the Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicator for Project Implementation Ozone Depleting Substances Phased
Out in Metric Tons (as defined in the Project Document)
Sub-Project                      Estimated                    Actual
in FY                      in FY
'94  '95  '96  '97  '98  '94  '95  '96  '97  '98  Total
1. Engineering Assistance for
ODS Production Phaseout
2. Design and Operation of a
3R Scheme
3. Thermoking
4. BHL
Total:



- 30 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.



- 31 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreig   Total        Local  Foreign  Total
costs  n costs             costs   costs
1. Engineering Assistance for
ODS Production Phaseout
2. Design and Operation of a 3R
Scheme
3. Thermoking
4. BHL
5. PIU
6. Others, Financial Intermediary
Total:
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
Item                          Local Foreig   Total        Local  Foreign  Total
costs  n costs             costs   costs
1. Engineering Assistance for
ODS Production Phaseout
2. Design and Operation of a 3R
Scheme
3. Thermoking
4. BHL
5. Others, Financial Intermediary
Total:



- 32 -
Attachment 3.
SUPERVISION AND COMPLETION MISSION
March 1998
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
Terms of References for
Mr. David Gibson, technical expert for ODS phase-out projects
Since Mr. Gibson (Consultant) was involved in the technical design of the project his services
would be used to assist in the preparation of the ICRs.
Introduction:
1.    The Czech Republic received SDR 1.7 million grants from the Global Environment
Facility for the phaseout of ODS production and consumption in a cost effective manner as
mandated by the Montreal Protocol, its amendments and adjustments. An Implementation
Completion Report for the Project will need to be prepared within six months from grant closing
(closing dates mentioned above, respectively) that assesses the achievements and experiences
under the grants and to what extent the project's objectives were met. The Bank would engage
the Consultant's services as qualified, experienced, independent consultant to assist in the
preparation of the assessments and report preparation.
2.    Specific Terms of References (TORs) for the consultant's work are provided below.
Objective:
3.    The consultant is expected to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), the
participating intermediary bank and the Bank to make a realistic assessment of the environmental
impact of the project by means of evaluating the subprojects with the assistance of the PIUs and
to prepare all the technical parts of the reports.
Main Tasks:
4.    The consultant with the assistance of the PIU will review the subprojects from the aspects
of implementation record and performance, technical innovation, use of alternative technologies,
benefits, key lessons, problems, ownership characteristics, good practices, what major factors
affected the project, project outcome, etc.



- 33 -
5.    The consultant with the assistance of the PIUs should collect and analyze data with
respect to the evaluation of achieving the project's objectives for each subproject, the whole
Project and assess how the project fit in the country program. Wherever possible, cross-checking
should be done to ensure that the information provided for project benefits and performance are
realistic and consistent.
Outputs and Schedule:
6.    The consultant's draft report including all the analysis as above should be submitted to the
PIU and the Bank by end of April, 1998. The final report would be prepared after comments by
the PIU and the Bank by end of May, 1998.
7.    The consultant should make sure that the Bank's Guidelines regarding the preparation of
ICRs and the so called ICR and Montreal Protocol macros are all properly taken into account
throughout the work.



Appendix B.
Grant recipient's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Program Management Unit
Ministry of the Environment of the Czech Republic
Technical Support and Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
[GEF GRANT 28661]
April 1998



- 35 -
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 4, 1998)
Currency Unit
CZK 34,773 = USD 1
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Czech Crown per US dollar
1994        1995        1996         1997        1998
28,285      26,545      27,135       31,71       34,43
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton (ton)=1,000 kilograms    1 kilowatt-hour=1,000 hours
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHL               Brothers Horakove
CFC               chiorofluorocarbonated refrigerants
CFC 11            trichlorofluoromethane
CFC 12            dichlorofluromethane
CFC 113           trichlorotrifluoroethane
CKD               Ceskomoravska Kolben Danek a.s., a Czech manufacturer of cooling
equipment, participating enterprise
CR                the Czech Republic
CSFR              the Czechoslovak Federal Republic
CSN               Czech State Standard
DIN               German State Standard
EKOTEZ            a Czech manufacturer of recycling equipment, participating enterprise
HCFC              hydrogenchlorofluorocarbonated refrigerants
HFC               hydrogenchlorofluorocarbonated refrigerants
HCFC 22           chlorodifluoromethane
IPB               Investment and Post Bank
MoE               Ministry of the Environment
ODS               ozone depleting substances
PCB               polychlorinated biphenyl
SCHKT             The Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Technology Association
SFZP              the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic
Spolek            the firm in charge of the sub-project implementation
IPB               Investment and Post Bank



- 36 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                  Page         4
Evaluation summary                                                     5
1. Introduction                                                       5
2. Project objectives                                                  5
3. Achievements of Objectives                                          5
4. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                 6
5. Project Sustainability and Future Operation                         6
6. The Bank and Recipient Performance                                  6
7. Assessment of Outcomes                                              6
8. Key Lessons Learnt                                                 7
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                              8
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                            8
B.    Achievements of Objectives                                       8
C.    Assessment of Outcomes                                          10
D.   Key Lessons Learnt                                               11
E.    Recommendation                                                  12
Part II: Attachments                                                  13-16
Statistical Annexes:
Table 1:    Original Project Implementation Schedule
Table 2:    Original Project Implementation Schedule-Technical Summary
Table 3:    Sub-project 1 Implementation Progress
Table 4:    Sub-project 2 Implementation Progress
Table 5:    Sub-project 3 Implementation Progress
Table 6:    Sub-project 4 Implementation Progress
Table 7:    Project Costs/Financing
Table 8:    Studies Included in Project
Table 9:    Workshops Included in Project
Table 10:    ODS Phase-out in tons



- 37 -
Preface
This is the Implementation Cornpletion Report (ICR) prepared by the Recipient for the
Technical Support and Investment Project for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances in the
Czech Republic, for which grant GEF GRANT 28661 in the amount of SDR 1,7 million
equivalent was approved in April 1994 and made effective on 28 October 1994. The Project was
carried out through the Recipient's Ministry of Environment. The Beneficiaries were five
participating enterprises in the Project, respectively Spolek Ltd., EKOTEZ, Thermo King CR
Ltd., CKD Compressors Ltd. and Brothers Horakove. The implementation of the Project was
carried out in parallel with the ongoing transformation process of the national economy and
privatization scheme. It was successfully completed irrespective of these circumstances.
The grant was closed on 31 March 1998, almost two years after the original closing date.
The project itself begun about six months after the signing the grant agreement due to
administration procedures on the side of Recipient. The other delay was the cause of required
modification of retrofit sub-project in CKD Compressors and, of lagged behind two other
investment sub-projects at EKOTEZ and BHL due to longer time required for the introduction of
new non-ODS technology. The GEF original grant amount was unchanged and it was fully
disbursed by the end of March 1998. The whole Project was completed when all planned
activities were accomplished and individual sub-projects became operational. The scope of co-
financing for the project was rather limited and provided by the participating enterprises
themselves.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jaroslav Koubal, Project Manager of the Program
Management Unit/Ministry of the Environment, and reviewed by Ms. Alexandra Orlikova,
Director of the External Relations Department of the Ministry.
This Recipient's ICR was drafted after the closing date of the Project. It is based on
material in the project file. The Recipient's ICR is based on his own evaluation of the project's
execution, views reflecting the implementation progress including legal and environmental
requirements of the Czech Republic and international commitments of the country.



- 38 -
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction
The fundamental objective of the State Environmental Policy was systematically
improvement the quality of the environment in the Czech Republic and thus contribute towards
the solution of global environmental problems. The main objective of the Country Program was
to limit health and environmental hazards and, inter alia, incorporate environmental costs into
production processes and begin integrating the principles of environmental protection into social
and economic activities.
The process of economic transformation contributed, by the removal of the centrally
planned economy, to the ongoing process of the revival of market economy, to the restructuring
of industrial sectors towards production processes which were less demanding on energy and
natural resources, and to the improving of the environment. The GEF grant linked external
support and the internal objectives of the State Environmental Policy to help meeting
international commitments of the country to protect ozone layer of the Earth.
2.    Project Objectives
This Project was the first comprehensive and planned ODS phase-out program which was
launched in the Central and Eastern Europe. The objective of the Project was structured based on
specific ODS phase out requirements in the Czech Republic and according to the Country
Program. The main objective of the Project was to support the Czech Republic's effort in the
phasing out the production and consumption of ozone depleting substances in a cost effective
manner by the year 1996 as mandated by the Montreal Protocol. Further, the Project expected to
contribute to the national objective to reduce ODS consumption, and during the implementation
of 3R scheme in the refrigeration sector. The Project would reduce emissions that originate
during servicing the refrigeration and air conditioning equipment in the commercial, industrial
and transport sectors. The Project consisted of four investment sub-projects that aimed at
introducing the environmentally friendly technologies while using substitutes for CFCs.
3.    Achievement of Objectives
In the most crucial areas important achievements were obtained. The basic legal and
economical infrastructure was put in place. In 1995, in compliance with the Montreal Protocol
and Copenhagen Amendments, the Czech Republic passed the new law to protect ozone layer of
the Earth. The production of CFCs was terminated as at January 1, 1996 in the largest chemical
plant at Spolek. Thanks to the Project new non-ODS technologies were successfully introduced
as envisaged through individual sub-projects.
Refrigerant and reclaim scheme was established and recovery network put in place. The
training program for technicians, addressing updated techniques of refrigerant recovery and
retrofit was substantially carried out.  Tens of courses took place and more than 2000
refrigeration technicians were trained and re-trained. The course content is incorporated in the



- 39 -
syllabus of the apprenticeship school. The new retrofit methodology for chilling compressors
was developed and verified in practice. The retrofit carried out for transport refrigeration
equipment successfully replaced the existing CFC refrigerants with HCFC refrigerants. On the
other hand, the results were blended due to unsatisfactory operation of the national network for
recovery/recycling /reclamation (the 3R scheme), were larger amount of waste refrigerants was,
originally expected to be reclaimed.
4.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
The rehabilitation of the environment and ongoing transformation process of the national
economy were the positive factors in the course of the Project implementation. Market economy
was the driving force and the challenge for the participating enterprises to survive and thus major
factor for successful participation in the Project. New regulatory framework adopted by the
government to protect ozone layer following the Montreal Protocol provisions played a decisive
role. On the other hand lack of enforcement capacity and undeveloped supervision system ancl
monitoring with respect to the waste refrigerants market on the both sides of SCHKT and SFZP
led to the situation that the 3R scheme is not yet functioning properly.
5.    Project Sustainability and Future Operation
The investment activities and achieved objectives led to the establishment of a long-term
technologically advanced background to phase out CFCs in refrigeration equipment which woulcl
likely remain in operation for another 5-10 years, at least. With respect to the 3R scheme the up-
dated technology will continue to be used to handle, recover and reclaim current substitute
substances (HCFCs) in the future. In addition, requirements for the improvement of environment
supported by regulatory framework will provide favorable conditions for the broader utilization
of advanced technology introduced under the Project. Commitments of participating enterprises
are well known. Some enterprises are strongly motivated to demonstrate the success of the
Project because of ownership interests as long as the advanced technology and experience gained
remain competitive. However, due to the orientation of Spolek on the production of chemicals
in large scope, likely more critical is the commitment of the company to maintain the 3R scheme
in operation for a longer term if only limited amount of waste refrigerants will be recovered in
the future. This part of sub-project will depend, to some extend, on the profitability of the
purification of waste refrigerants. Additionally, future decision on financial incentives from the
state budget to support the construction and operation of a new CFC incineration plant will play
important role.
6.    The Bank and Recipient Performance
The Bank's performance in all aspect of the project cycle was excellent. There were no
deviations in Bank policy or procedures in the course of project implementation.  The
supervision was adequate to the project size. The Bank tearn was successful in providing
technical assistance to the grant Recipient and participating enterprises to coordinate the project
activities and utilize the proceeds in the cost effective manner. The overall performance of the



- 40 -
Recipient and in particular Program Management Unit concerned was satisfactory and
appropriate in all phases of the project cycle.
7.    Assessment of Outcomes
The original project was designed as an investment program for a period of two years,
1994-1996. About 85% of the total USD 2,3 million program was intended to support the
introduction of non-ODS technology in the manufacturing programs and phasing out production
of CFCs. The actual grant program financed expenditures at five participating enterprises to
procure variety of equipment and advanced technologies, to develop new techniques of
refrigeration both in the industrial and commercial sectors, and a small amount to technical
assistance. The investment expenditures at the participating enterprises improved the
optimization of technological processes and contributed to substitute ODS in the manufacturing
of products through technology transfers. In addition, minor savings of C02 and energy were
achieved through the higher level while utilizing of propylene used as the raw material for the
production of PCE and CTC. Further, the specific training program was developed and applied in
practice focusing on the use of ODS advanced equipment and techniques to eliminate ODS
emissions during the servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning systems.
The actual costs did not exceed the planned budget due to the strict procurement
procedures and fair implementation. However, due to some difficulties, e.g. privatization
process and unclear property rights, needs for the long-term testing of new technologies and
requirements for the successful completion of some sub-projects, resulted in several short-term
extensions of the Project.
Newly established market economy was the driving force to achieve the planned
objective of the project. The consequence of increasing competition squeeze led to rise the
awareness of the participating firms to comply with the new requirements of the domestic
market. The achievement of targeted objectives of the Project paved the way keep pace with the
local and foreign competitors.
However, certain shortcomings affected the implementation of the project. In particular,
the 3R scheme is concerned when existing legal and regulatory framework including
enforcement capacity lag behind the expectations of the reclamation centers and the Recipient to
prevent some unfair marketing of waste refrigerants.
Successful implementation of the Project resulted in a series of workshops organized by
participating enterprises (EKOTEZ, BHL, Spolek) in co-operation with MoE. It appeared that
there was an enormous interest among producers and users of CFCs and CFCs substitutes in
participating in these workshops. Therefore, majority of workshops were held as international
ones. At the end of the Project the MoE organized two workshops. An international workshop in
particular for Slovenia, Poland, Hungary and Belarus, which are currently implementing ODS
projects under GEF assistance, to extend experience of the Czech Project.' A local seminar to
present the results of the Project in a broader scope, and to promote public awareness with
respect to the protection of the ozone layer.



- 41 -
8.    Key Lessons Learnt
Based on the experience gained during the implementation of the Project the key lessons
learnt are:
(i) more attention should be given to the regulatory framework in the refrigeration sector
including the tools of enforcement
(ii) legal/regulatory framework and economic stimuli should be taken into account to ensure an
appropriate coordination of environmental activities
(iii) as an alternative of the 3R centralized scheme a mobile equipment for the purification of
used refrigerants could be used
(iv) public awareness will be increasingly the most decisive factor for the satisfactory completion
of a project while ensuring the support of the lay and professional public to support project
implementation
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A     Achievements of Objectives - Sub-projects Description
In fact the Project was a 3 year program the principal objective of which was to assist the
Czech Republic in the phasing out of ODS production and consumption in a cost effective
manner. The original project design assumed to phase out 2000t/y of ODS production while
terminating the manufacture of CFCs. In addition, 190 tly of ODS were to be reduced due to the
introduction of new non-ODS technology at manufacturing programs. The Project includecL
following components:
a) Engineering assistance for ODS production phase out
b) Establishment of 3R scheme and collection system plus Establishment of training scheme for
servicemen
c) Introduction of non-ODS refrigeration technologies in the industrial, commercial and
transport sectors
d) Introduction of non-ODS insulation technologies in cold room panel manufacturing
B.   Achievements of Objectives - Sub-projects Description
a) Sub-project 1:    Engineering Assistance to Spolek
(Spolek pro chemickou a hutni vyrobu, 400 32 Usti nad Labem, Revolucni
86)
Spolek produced CFC-12, 11 and 113 from CTC, which is itself a by-product of a
percloroethylene and epichlorhidrine manufacturing process that is a component in the
manufacture of epoxide resins. Originally Spolek had planned to convert their CFC-12 and
CFC-1 1 production to HFC-134a and/or HCFC-22. A study was proposed under the project that
would carry out a marketing and feasibility study to determine whether this was a sound business



- 42 -
decision and to identify a potential technology supplier for HFC-134a production. It became
obvious before any work was carried out that there was excess HFC-134a production capacity
world-wide, and that Spolek's original plan was no longer sound. Funds intended for this study
were thus diverted to sub-project 2, in which Spolek also participated.
Spolek is in the process of implementing plans to convert the CFC-1 13 production
process as planned. CTC production has been cut from 2,000 to 500 tons per year as a feedstock
for chloroform production. This is the minimum economical production level for this material.
b) Sub-project 2:    Refrigerant Recovery and Reclaim Scheme
(EKOTEZ, 133 00 Praha 3, Konevova 47)
This project was based at Spolek (above) and EKOTEZ, a distributor of imported
refrigeration components and manufacturer of refrigerant recovery machines. It involved i) the
conversion of part of Splek's CFC-12 and CFC- 11 production facilities to a reclaim plant and the
acquisition of two dedicated reclaim machines ii) the establishing of testing facilities at both
enterprises for reclaimed refrigerant, iii) the purchase of 2,000 recovery machines and cylinders
for refrigeration technicians and iv) the organization of a training course for refrigeration
technicians. Successful participants on this course are issued with a so-called "green card" stating
they are qualified to carry out refrigerant recovery and handle new refrigerants. Though there is
currently no legal requirement for a technician to hold this certificate, it is anticipated that such a
regulation may form part of a future technician licensing scheme.
Some technical difficulties were encountered with this project. Gas Chromatograph
equipment supplied as part of the testing equipment was found to be very sensitive to adjacent
chemical and sewage emissions and an air conditioned clean room had to be constructed to house
this equipment. The operation of the first dedicated reclaim machine was not satisfactory.
Repeated operation of the cleaning cycle were required to achieve required purity levels, and the
filters were observed to have a very short life - factors that would negatively affect the reclaim
center running costs. A different reclaim machine has been procured for the second reclaim
center at Ekotez' premises and performance of this appears to be satisfactory.
The principal problem with the 3R scheme is non-compliance by refrigeration
technicians. Only about 6 tones has been recovered to date, yet macro statistics suggest that
about 200 tones per year is being recovered and directly re-used. An anonymous questionnaire
showed that an average of 100 kgs. being collected per year by each technician. It is assumed
that this refrigerant is short-circuiting the reclaim facility. The reason is thought to be the high
value this refrigerant has acquired. This was originally the result of a refrigerant tax imposed to
encourage the recycling of refrigerant, but is now reflects the high prevailing world price of
around $US 18/kg. Larger amounts of CFC-1 1 have been presented for reclaim (about 20 tons)
and it is known that at least a further 60 tones can be easily obtained. Unfortunately there is no
immediate market for reclaimed CFC- 1 1.



- 43 -
c) Sub-project 3:   Introduction of Non-ODS Refrigerants in the Commercial, Industrial
and Refrigerated Transport Sectors
(Thermo King Czech Republic, 150 00 Praha 5, Ostrovskeho 34)
(CKD DUKLA, 190 02 Praha 9, Klecakova 1947)
This sub-project comprised activities at two companies, namely Thermo King (originally
the Czechoslovak company Frigera), and CKD. The former makes truck refrigeration units and
operates an enviromnental test chamber for commercial vehicles; the latter makes industrial
compressors. Both enterprises exported their products to the USSR in former times.
Both projects involved the development of retrofit methodologies for retrofitting their
cooling equipment to non-ODS substitute refrigerants.  Thermo King test chamber was
retrofitted using a "drop-in" CFC-12 replacement that though not a CFC as such, possesses a
small ODP. There are no plans to eventually replace this transitional HCFC fluid (MP-66 from
Dupont US) which was used to avoid the considerable cost that retrofitting to HFC-134a would
have entailed owing to the age of the equipment and complicated circuitry involved.
Thermo King developed HFC-134a retrofit methodologies for their truck refrigeration
units which were widely exported to the former USSR. These have been tested and verified in
the field. Instructions for carrying out retrofit have been published in a manual available in
Russian as well as Czech and English. The impact of this project will likely extend to GEF
funded service sector projects in other countries such as Bolarus, Ukraine and the Russian
Federation. The Thenno King component proceeded very much as planned.
The CKD component was changed during implementation, however. They had planned to
retrofit two large utility heat pumps. This was changed when the ownership of these facilities
changed and a new management team at CKD changed and took a fresh look at the sub-project.
As a result retrofit methodologies were developed for their popular KBP (300-600 kW) and CJ
(509-150 kW) reciprocating cooling units. The impact of the sub-project will be greater than with
the original plan because many examples of this equipment are in use in the Czech Republic as
well as other Eastern Bloc countries. Retrofits of both equipment types were verified in the fielcd
using a data logger purchased under the project. In the Czech Republic alone the "park" of
refrigerant contained in these systems is estimated at 280 and 100 tons of CFC-12 respectively.
These amounts will eventually become available for recovery.
d) Sub-project 4:   Introduction of non-ODS Insulation Technologies in Cold Room Panel
Manufacturing
(Bratri Horakove, 277 06 Luzec nad Vltavou, Melnicka 150
This sub-project was based at Bratri Horakove Ltd. (BHL), at he largest manufacturer of
modular panels for cold room construction in the Czech Republic. The original project design
was modified somewhat as implementation progressed. The ultimate phase out solution had not
been identified in the original project design as it was recognized that future technical
developments were likely to invalidate any choice made at that time. It was proposed initially



- 44 -
that 50% CFC-1 1 foaming technology be introduced first, followed by the transitional foaming
agent HCFC-141b, to be followed in turn by an appropriate zero ODS foaming technology. The
project involved acquisition of High Pressure foaming equipment, equipping molds with heaters
and the setting up of a comprehensive foamed panel testing laboratory that would be available
for use by other foaming companies.
The 50% CFC-1 1 process was successfully introduced, but its replacement with HCFC-
141b technology entailed some technical problems related to the higher temperatures reached
during the foaming process by comparison with CFC-l 1 processes. Three foaming beds warped
as a result of exposure to these higher temperatures; two of these were replaced with spare funds
from the project. BHL have selected a blend of HFC-134a and C02 as the final choice of zero
ODS foaming agent. This is a proven technology for panel foaming. BHL use polyols supplied
by the principal European manufacturers such as BASF and Enichem for this purpose, and
source the blowing agent locally from Tannex, a Czech company.
Problems have been encountered in maintaining temperatures within a critical range in all
parts of molds during foaming. More funds have been requested for equipment to control this
effectively. The conductivity of the foam produced using the HFC-134a/CO2 blend is about 8%
higher than that of the original CFC- I blown foam. This means that the panels have to be made
correspondingly thicker to offset an increase in the energy consumption of cold room equipment.
The extra thickness has led to an increase in the price of the panels.
The original CFC-l 1 foaming procedure was very wasteful of foam. About 25% of the
foam used was wasted because molds had to be overfilled to ensure even distribution. Greater
attention paid to foaming techniques with the adoption of the new technologies has led to a
considerable reduction in this wastage. Disposal of these foam off cuts, especially those left over
from CFC-1 1 foaming, is a problem. It is anticipated that these can be disposed of at a domestic
refrigerator disposal facility that will be funded by the MoE.
C.   Assessment of Outcomes
CFC's used as refrigerants and polyurethane foam blowing agents were phased out at
three enterprises. A refrigerant recovery and reclaim (3R) scheme was organized at two other
enterprises with a view to recycling as much refrigerant as possible and thereby reduce the
demand for new refrigerant. An account of each sub-project is given below.
One project (sub-project 1) comprised a feasibility and engineering study to assist the
country's only CFC producer (Spolek) to convert its CFC-12 and CFC-l 1 production to HFC-
134a and HCFC-22. It became obvious before the study was commissioned that such a strategy
did not make business sense because of the over-production of these refrigerants world-wide and
the fact that no HFC producer was willing to license their technology to Spolek. Thus this sub-
project was canceled and funds re-allocated to the 3R scheme (sub-project 2).
In general the remaining projects have been successfully completed, with the exception of
the 3R scheme which is not yet functioning properly. In one sense, the objective of this project



-45 -
has been met. During the first year of operation, the net demand for new CFC-12 dropped by
about 200 tonnes, nearly 30% of the country's consumption for refrigeration purposes. This is an
exceptional reduction by world standards. Unfortunately this refrigerant is not being processed
through the reclaim centers set up to restore this refrigerant to its original specification. It appears
that refrigeration technicians are directly re-using the refrigerant they collect. It is thought that
this practice is causing an increase in the frequency of refrigerant equipment failures and
imposing an unnecessary economic cost on the country. The reason of this practice is thought to
the high value CFC-12 has acquired by comparison with a the price offered for recovered
refrigerant by the reclaim centers. The current value of CFC-12 has reached $US 22 (including
VAT) while the reclaim centers are currently offering only $ 6/kg.
Small amounts of HCFC-22 will continue to be used at the truck testing facility at
Thermo King Czech Republic in the form of the major component of a proprietary blend (MP-66
from Dupont). This is not a CFC as such, but does possess small ODP of about 0.03. It was
decided to use this option because the refrigeration system in question was fairly old. Use of a
zero ODS refrigerant such as HFC-134a would have required the whole system to be
disassembled and thoroughly cleaned, and this would have been expensive. Conversion using
this so-called "drop-in" refrigerant was achieved at far less expense. The capacity and energy
efficiency of this system were found to have improved by about 8% following conversion.
The retrofitting of this equipment was a small part of sub-project 3 which was primarily
concerned with developing and testing retrofit methodologies for i) transport refrigeration
equipment (at Thermo King) and, ii) for industrial cooling equipment at a compressor
manufacturer, CKD. These both components proceeded according to plan and were successfully
concluded in July 1997.
Substitution of CFC- 11 used as a blowing agent at Bratri Horovace Ltd. (BHL - sub-
project 4) encountered some technical difficulties that complicated somewhat the original sub-
project design. This project is now complete though the inferior thermal performance of the new
insulating foam by comparison with the original CFC-1 1 blown foam has required the insulating
panels to be made thicker, with an attendant cost increase.
D.   Key Lessons Learnt from the Project
Some technical lessons were leant in sub-project 4. New processes were found generally
to be more difficult than the original CFC-l 1 foaming procedure. It was also found that a polyol
supplier's word could not be trusted with regard to the structural and thermal performance of
foam made with his product. Careful testing was found to be vital in maintaining the quality of
foamed panels. All sub-projects are considered to have been successfully implemented with the
exception of sub-project 2, the 3R scheme.
The non-compliance of refrigeration service technicians with this scheme is thought to be
due to the high value acquired by CFC-12 and the relatively low price paid for contaminated
CFC-12 by the reclaim centers. This encourages technicians to re-use the refrigerant directly and
keep a high proportion of its value for themselves. CFC-12 refrigerant originally acquired a



- 46 -
relatively high value when the governrment imposed duty raised its price from about $US 2/kg to
$US 8/kg. The high reduction in overall refrigerant use dates from this period. Had it been
possible to vary this duty easily, a level might have been found which both encouraged
technicians to recover refrigerant and sell it to the reclaim centers.
Lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
i) Financial incentive is far and away the most important factor in encouraging compliance. It
should be noted that large amounts of CFC- 11 have been reclaimed to date for which there is
no apparent market. About 20 tones have been reclaimed and a further 60 tones have been
offered to the reclaim centers who have refused this refrigerant which is used only in large
centrifugal cooling machines.
ii) Duty levels should be easily variable (e.g. by ministerial decree) enabling the price of CFC
refrigerant to be controlled with respect to other refrigerants. Successive duty changes in the
Czech Republic required approval by Parliament making it impossible to "fine tune" in
response to prevailing conditions.
E.    Recommendations
It is recommended that funds be provided to cover the full operating costs of the reclaim
centers for a limited period. This would enable the centers to offer a price at or near the current
market price for new CFC-12. Foreign examples suggest that the true operating costs of the
centers when operating normally should be a maximum of $US 2/kg only-. Once in full
operation, the centers' proprietors should be able to know their true costs and be able to offer a
redemption price for recovered refrigerant far closer to its true value than at present. This should
be carried out in conjunction with a campaign aimed at technicians, advertising the new rates
paid but soliciting only CFC-12, R-502 and HCFC-22. Thereafter the fact that two reclaim
centers will be competing for recovered refrigerant should enable a competitive price to emerge
for recovered refrigerant. The operation of the reclaim centers should then become self-
sustaining.
The problem of what to do with CFC-1 1 has no obvious solution other than eventual
incineration at an appropriate incineration facility. The building of such a facility at Spolek is
currently proposed, financed with money from the SFZP. Incineration, in some respect, could be
viewed wasteful. Before this is carried out, it should be determined that no market for CFC-1 1in
fact exists. If there are elderly CFC- 11 centrifugal plants still in operation in the Czech Republic,
the CFC-1 1 being offered (itself emanating from retrofitted plants) can be offered to operators of
these plants. It would be cost effective for them not to have to retrofit or replace plants of say 15
years of age, if supplies of enough CFC-1 I can be guaranteed by the reclaim centers to enable
them to complete their useful life of about 25 years.



- 47 -
Part II: Attachments: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Original Project/Sub-Project Implementation Schedule
Planned Date of Signature                                                                  August 1994
Planned Date of                                                                             October 1994
Effectiveness
Sub-project I            Engineering Assistance for ODS Phaseout   Spolek                   By December
1994
Sub-project 2            Design and Operation of 3R system
Establishment of Reclamation Center    Spolek                     by December
1994
Establishment of Training Center       Vocational School, SCHKT, By December
EKOTEZ                     1994
Establishment of Collection Network    EKOTEZ                     1994-1996
Collection and Recycling of Refrigerants                          1994-1996 and
Thereafter
Sub-project 3            Introduction of non-ODS Refrigeration
Technologies in the Commercial Industrial
and Refrigeration Transport Sectors
Redesign of Open Drive Compressors     Thermo King                December 1994
Retrofit of Industrial Cooling Systems  CKD Compressors           June 1995
Conversion of Test-facilities to Non-ODS    Thermo King           By December
Technology                                                        1995
Preparation of Technical Manuals       Thermo King                By December
CKD Compressors            1995
Sub-project 4            Introduction of Non-ODS Insulation      BHL                        By October
Technologies in Cold Room Panel                                   1995
Manufacturing
Sub-project 5            Assistance to the Project Management Unit                          1994-1996
Expected Date of                                                                            June 1996
Completion
Table 2: Original Project/Sub-project Implementation Schedule - Technical Summary
Sub-project Title                  Participating    Ownership Sub-project  Type of    Sub-     GEF Grant
Enterprise               Impact        ODS       project    mil.USD
Produced/  Costs
Used       mil. USD
Sub-project I                      Spolek         State     Termination  CFC-I 1         0,080       0,080
Engineering Assistance for ODS                              of ODS       CFC- 12
Production Phaseout                                         Production   CFC-1 13
2000t/yr     CTC
Sub-project 2                      Spolek,        State and  Recycling of CFC-I 1        1,340       1,040
Establishment of 3R scheme and     EKOTEZ,        Private   up to 200 t/yr CFC-12
collection system                 Association of            of
Establishment of Training scheme for  Refrigeration         refrigerants
servismen                          Servicemen,              RI 1 and R12
Vocational
School Center
Sub-project 3                     Thermo King   Private    Phaseout of  CFC-12           0,464       0,464
Introduction of non ODS Refrigeration                       110 t/yr of
Technologies in the Commercial     CKD                      R 12
Industrial and Transport Sectors
Sub-project 4                     BHL             Private    Phaseout of  CFC-I I        1,911       0,363
Introduction of non-ODS Insulation                          over 80 t/yr            I         I



- 48 -
Technologies in Cold Room Panel                           of RI 1
Manufacturing                               _.       __
Sub-project 5                     Project                                             0,300       0,300
PMU                               Management
Unit, Ministry
of Environment
Financial Intermediary Fee (2.72% of  Investment and                                   0,053      0,053
Sub-project 1-4)                  Post Bank     .
Total                                                                  .               4,148      2,300
Table 3: Sub-project 1 - Implementation progress
Year                1 993                            1 994                          1 995
Activity  1. Design of original project concept  1. Negotiations with foreign  1. Termination of CFC
2. Marketing research regarding CFC  producers to procure know-how for  production
substitutes                      CFC conversion                  2. Proposal to transfer funds
3. Negotiations with foreign CFC  2. Evaluation of potential alternatives under sub-project I to sub-project
producers to obtain know-how for    of HCFC production           II. Transferred funds used to
production of CFC substitutes    3. Taking decision on optimal   cover extra costs of the
4. Beginning of research works and   strategy to terminate production of  optimizing production of PCE
semioperational production of CFC    CFC and CTC                 and to reduce by-production of
conversion                       4. Contract on project financing  CTC
Table 4: Sub-project 2 - Implementation progress
Year        1 994                      1 995                          1 996                1 997
Activity  I.Preparation of  I.Completion of operational design and  I.Inspection        1.Operational
Spolek   the sub-project  submission of application for building  approved by local    running
concept and    permit                                 authority               completed of the
documents for   2.Preparation of the tender dossier and  2.Trial tests of     whole
country and land launched call for bids              technology and           reclamation
planning and    3. Evaluation of bids and selection of  beginning of operation   facility
building license  general supplier                    3.Claims charged to     2.Long-term
2.Beginning of  4. Conclusion of the contract         supplier to put away    approval issued
building       5. Call for bids and selection of winners for malfunctions    for current
approval process supplies made directly by Spolek     4.Marketing activities,    operation
3.EIA comment  6.Beginning of construction works      public arising          3. Marketing
and approval    7.Completion of construction works    campaign                campaign to
according to the  8.Installation of equipment         5.Based on trial and    continue based on
Act 244/92     9.Trial operational of equipment and   operational running the    offered
4. Contracting   auxiliary                            authority issued approval  redemption price
activity started   10. Construction prepared for the Inspection for CFC reclamation  of used
up             by local authority                     system                  refrigerants of up
I____________________   _to 15OCZK/kg
Year        1 994           1 995             1 996                1 997                 1 998
Activity  I.Preparation of I.Sales of recovery I.Training system    I.Training and retraining  I.Trial operation of
EKOTEZ  the sub-project  equipment to be   launched and      system to be continued    reclaim machine
activity in    continued        operational        2.Procurement of       including testing of
cooperation with 2.Preparation of   2.Preparation of    equipment         the whole 3R scheme
SCHKT          waste refrigerant  recovery, recycling  3.Construction works to   2.Technical assistance
2.Sales of     collection network reclamation scheme  build up facility for  to improve 3R
recovery       3.Preparation of   3.Preparation of    reclamation capacity and  scheme
equipment to   the training system  tendering documents refrigerant storing  4.International
engineers and   of refrigerant  4.Procurement of    4.Installation of reclaim    workshop
servicing firms  engineers      equipment          machine                 5.Procurment of
5.Internat.workshop                       auxiliary equipment



- 49 -
Table 5: Sub-project 3 - Implementation progress
Year        1994                      1 995                         1 996                1 997
Activity  I.Simple       l.Simple refrigeration unit with new  2.Retrofit method tests   I.Information booklet
Thermo   refrigeration unit refrigerant R134a for East-European  3.Reconstruction of  for customers and
King     with new        markets.                            testing laboratory for    service personnel.
refrigerant    2.Retrofit method modification       transport refrigeration.
R134a for East-  3.Reconstruction of testing laboratory for
European       transport refrigeration.
markets.
2.Retrofit
method
,development
Year                      1 996                                          1 997
Activity  I.Establishment of specialized workshop for  l.Completion of retrofit methodology.
CKD      retrofit                                   2.Verification of retrofit methodology.
2.1dentification and procurement of chilling  3.Testing of retrofitted units.
equipment.                                4.Evaluation of retrofit system
3.Procurement of materials and components.  5.Information brochure-draft and production
Table 6: Sub-project 4 - Implementation progress
Year                       1 994      1 995             1 996           1 997               1 998
Activityv  I.The first steps to   Item I to be      Item 1      6.Tests and modification of 8.Modification
introduce PUR technology   continued.     completed.  non-ODS production line,   of production
with   decreasecd        Completion of item Item 3    technology and products.   line-heating and
consumption of   CFCs.  2.                completed.  7.Completion of the      regulation
2.Modification of       Item 3 to be      Item 4 to be  laboratory equipment,  system
production lines for     continued, tests   continued.   evaluation of laboratory  9.Procurement
adoption of non-ODS      and modifications. 5.Tests of   methodology and tests of   of equipment
technology               4.Design and     new products products.               for the
3.Placement of           establishment of                                      production line
technological equipment for the laboratory                                     and laboratory
final products.         room.
Table 7: Project Costs/Financing
Appraisal estimate ($ thousand)  Actual ($ thousand)
Item                                     Local   Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign      Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
Sub-project 1                                          80           80        50                     50
Spolek
Sub-project 2                                        1040         1040       114      963          1077
Spolek                                               230           230        18      212          230
EKOTEZ                                                810          810        96      751           847
Sub-project 3                                        464           464       143      349          492
Thermo King                                           210          210       121      143           264
CKD                                                  254           254        22      206          228
Sub-project 4                                         363          363        78      554          632
BHL                                                      I_II_
PMU (including financial intermediary)                353          353        38      542           580
Total                                  _            2 300         2 300      423    2408           2831



- 50 -
Table 8: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as defined at         Status                 Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
12/95/OZONE          Sub-project 3                  Implemented     Technical assistance to CKD to modify
J.Petrak             CKD Component                                  sub-project to overcome difficulty in
CR                   Develop retrofit techniques                    implementing the original project concept
13/95/Ozone          GEF Vienna Conference          Implemented     Compliance of the CR with the Montreal
V.Rehacek            technical & advisory support to                Protocol and its Amendments, consequent
CR                   the Czech delegation                           impacts on the Project
TA/GEF/JP            GEF Projects                   Implemented     Environmental policy coordination
E+E Consulting       services for the organization of               program in the field of air protection and
CR                   the seminar                                    ozone layer
TA/PIR/I 1/96        ODS Phase-out Project          Implemented     Review of the implementation progress of
V.Rehacek            technical assistance to the                    individual sub-projects, preparation of sub-
CR                   participating enterprises                      projects' progress reports
TA/ODS/12/97         Technical assistance to sub-   Implemented    Improvement of the 3R scheme
Refrigerant Product    project 2 (recovery, recycling,
UK                   reclamation)
TAJODS/02/98         Technical assistance to MoE.PMU Implemented    Preparation of ICR, consultancy services to
Dewpoint Consultants                                                the international workshop
UK                                                                                                ._
Table 9: Workshops Included in Project
Project/Sub-project                   Activity                           Date               Venue
Sub-project 2            Up-dated technology for ODS handling,     May 1996                 Kostelec nad
regulatory framework                     International workshop   Orlici
Sub-project 4            ODS free technology in the manufacturing of  October 1997          Prague
could room panels and insulation foams   International Workshop   Luzec nad
Vltavou
ODS Phase-out Project    Environmental policy coordination         March 1997               Luhacovice
program/air & ozone layer protection     International workshop
ODS Phase-out Project    Czech ODS Project                         March 1998               Prague
International workshop
ODS Phase-out Project    Czech ODS Project                         March 1998               Prague
Local seminar
Table 1M:ODS Phased out in tons
Estimated in FY                             Actual in FY
'94   '95    '96       '97       '98    '94  '95   '96       '97     '98     Total
sub-project 1                       2 000    2 000    2 000         377   2 493   2 149    2 020    7 039
sub-project 2                200      200      200       200  757  374    781       270       22    2 204
sub-project 3                110      110      110       110  _       5       2        1                 8
sub-project 4                 80       80       80        80         82      31      31        4       148
Total                        390    2 390    2 390    2 390  757  838   3 307   2 451    2 046    9 399



14'                                        16'                                     18.
The boundarnes, colors, denominotions and any other information
shown on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
GEERNAIANY             R WD-edeq       
T. D-esd-n t                                                                                  ,?              u rO             wroctrJw | 50  1- 1
S~  Teplice ttt               r~      _L                                              KILOMETERS
st nnad  Laibem          9                            
xt~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                 CEK                  lo                  P    O L A  N' D|
XJr < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Vienn Hsoee (T
#_,/~                   r To      c LizK USTRcilJov  Wen           oWnr{Of 8rbSv                                      l  
- 48                                       CZECH REPUBLIC                                              "'48
g    ZAPADOCO                                  MAJOR TOWNS AND VILLAGES
>                        (i)~    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                     (L. , 
7'~~~~>>~~>   %                     @ ~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     -,f
y                                  ~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS                       4 
In   I+ I   RA LROADS                                                              HUGRVK
C ZEPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-                                 .    ._    ~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                             1 
.o . __ _ 1 ___ _ _ . . = 1 sa



