                                                                                                                     92200
Czech Republic - Ozone Deplenting Substances Phaseout - Global Environment Facility (GEF)
  For GEF Project Document (PD) Click Here!
                                                                                  April 28, 2004

The Czech Republic became a Party to the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol in January 1993 and acceded to
the London and Copenhagen Amendments in December 1996. The Czechoslovakia Country Programme (CP) for the
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) (3935 tons, and the Czech Republic accounted for 60 percent of it), that
builds the basis of the GEF Project for the phase-out of ODS in the Czech Republic, was completed in August 1992. As one
of first countries eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant, in 1992, the Government requested World Bank
assistance in the preparation of a GEF funded ODS Phaseout Project. The Grant Agreement for the provision of US$ 2.3
million GEF fund was signed in October 1994. When the Project closed successfully in March 1998, it was the first completed
World Bank managed GEF ODS Phaseout Project worldwide.

The Project principal objective, to assist the Czech Republic in the phaseout of ODS production and consumption in a cost
effective manner by 1996, as mandated by the Montreal Protocol, its related amendments and adjustments, proved to be
correct and was fully achieved as well as the CP was successfully implemented. All CFCs production was phased out, a
national network for refrigerant recovery reclamation and recycling (3R) was introduced, and technology changes were
implemented to use ODS substitutes in manufacturing goods, mainly refrigeration and commercial, industrial cooling
applications. GEF support provided an incentive for the early adoption of ODS phaseout activities and captured additional
environmental and economic benefits which otherwise would have been lost or delayed.

The GEF Project consisted of five subprojects, including four investment subprojects and one institutional strengthening
subproject. One sub-project, which involved funding a feasibility study to convert CFC production facilities (appraised project
impact: 2000 ODP tons), was abandoned when it was assessed that there would be no profitable market for the new
products. The money destined for these activities was reallocated to the 3R sub-project. Including the 3R subproject, there
were two subprojects in the refrigeration sector and one in the foam sector. These were to phase out a total of 390 ODP
tons. Based on 1993 figures, the GEF Project eliminated 50 percent of total consumption in the refrigeration sector and 30
percent in the foam sector. The GEF Grant effectiveness ratio was US$ 2.15/ODP kg.

There was a significant reduction in the ODS consumption of the Czech Republic already by 1994. This was not least the
result of the ban on the use of CFCs as propellants in 1993 which reduced consumption by more than 1,000 ODP tons. A
near phase-out of A and B substances was achieved by 1996. Residual production and consumption remained in 1996 and
1997, which was mainly used for the production of metered-dose inhalers and for laboratory and analytical uses.
Consumption in 1997 accounted for little more than 10 ODP tons.

Legal aspects. In January 1993, the Czech Republic banned the use of CFCs as propellants (except for essential uses); in
January 1996, when also the manufacturing, import and export of CFCs, including products containing them, were prohibited,
introduced an ODS import and export licensing system including import quotas for ODS and ODS containing equipment; in
January 1997, a ban on the production and use in propellants of HCFCs was imposed. Essential uses have been approved
by ministerial decree for 1996-99. The Czech Republic introduced an excise duty on the production and import of ODS of
approximately US$ 3 per kg in 1994. In 1995, this tax was applied also to HCFCs and methyl bromide and the tax rate
increased to approximately US$ 6 per kg.

Several training courses primarily for refrigeration serviceman, customs officers, and public awareness raising conferences
were held. In addition, several regional knowledge management workshops were organised as part of the Czech GEF Project
between 1996 and 1998 and representatives of the Czech Republic have participated in various international meetings sharing
the experience of the first GEF Project for ODS phase-out with others. The Czech Republic is continuing its work on
developing the legislative framework for ODS control further (also within the context of the regional activities of UNEP) – not
least to bring it in line with existing EU regulations prior to EU accession.

The global impact of the project was considerable. Lessons learnt form the Czech 3R sub-project enhanced the development
of 3R schemes in other countries. The cooling system retrofit methodologies benefited end users of Thermo King and CKD
equipment all over the CIS and EU accession countries and helped to reduce the economic impact of phasing out CFC
refrigerants.

Being the first of its kind, the Czech GEF Project has served not only as an example to learn throughout Central and Eastern
Europe. This is especially true for the lessons of the 3R subproject that have influenced the planning of similar projects in a
number of countries. From this project, it has been learned that the financial incentive to technicians is most important for the
functioning of a 3R scheme that this incentive should be easily adaptable and that the commercial refrigeration sector should
be the primary focus of 3R activities. Making the 3R scheme reach its anticipated capacity remains a challenge, although
black-market supply of low-quality recycled refrigerant may shorten the lifetime of existing equipment and thus reduce
demand. The Czech Ministry of Environment considers to improve the effectiveness of the 3R scheme by a national
programme and hopes to address the shortcoming in particular by special training activities to be conducted by the
Association of Refrigeration Servicemen (“green card”).
