Integrated Human Development Project




Environmental Management Framework




        Government of the Maldives

                                      Table of Contents

1.0  Executive summary                                                                    1

2.0  Background to the Environmental Management Plan                                      2

2.1  Policy, legal, and administrative framework                                          2

2.2  Project description                                                                  4

3.0  Screening Criteria and Checklists of Potential Environmental and Social Impacts      6

3.1  Screening Criteria                                                                   6

3.2  Checklists of Potential Impacts                                                      9

4.0  Environmental Codes of Practice                                                      9

4.1  Site selection for construction of new facilities                                    9

4.2  Health care waste management                                                        10

4.3  Construction waste management                                                       12

4.4  Solid waste and wastewater management                                               12

4.5  Project activities identified under Project Component 3                             14

5.0  Environnemental management plan (EMP)                                               14

5.1  Overview and summary of impacts                                                     14

5.2  Description of Mitigation Measures                                                  15

5.3  Description of Monitoring Measures                                                  17

5.4  Institutional arrangements                                                          17

5.5  Implementation Schedule and Reporting Procedures                                    19

6.0  References                                                                          20

     Appendix A: Checklist for assessment of environmental impacts of project activities 21




                                                                                           ii

1.0 Executive summary

    Project design and environmental management framework must take into account requirements
    under the Environment Act of the Maldives (Law No. 4/93), supporting laws and regulations and
    the relevant Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies of the World Bank. An EIA approval
    must be obtained from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Environment for all environmental
    projects. IEE and EIA scope and terms of reference are jointly developed by MHAE and the
    project proponent, based on an initial submission of a project proposal. MHAE seeks advice from
    relevant government agencies in report evaluation.

    The present project does not require a full EIA, given the type and scale of project activities. It is a
    Category B project under World Bank guideline. Screening and assessment show that project
    activities are likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. The project would not
    involve any conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats, or other natural habitats or
    cultural property. No potential adverse impacts on local communities are anticipated, nor any
    resettlement. However, some activities may, unless careful project design and implementation is
    undertaken, potentially have site specific impacts of low significance. These are site specific
    impacts due to construction activities; improper disposal of construction waste; improper disposal
    of health care waste; and improper solid waste and sewerage disposal.

    Mitigation measures should minimize and offset identified potential impacts. Due care must be
    taken in site selection. Project design should take into account the fragility and vulnerability of
    island ecosystems, including groundwater hydrology, coral reefs and enclosed lagoons. It should
    mitigate potential impacts on sensitive habitats (e.g. island house reefs, mangroves); and rare,
    threatened, or endangered species. Dewatering activities must be according to MWSA regulations,
    as should receiving water quality parameters. Construction site activity must fulfill Building Code
    (2001) requirements. The project is not expected to have major municipal waste components, apart
    from the by product of facility operation. Their disposal is not expected to have adverse
    environmental impacts. Island health facility wastewater is not expected to have a high volume of
    hazardous content. Pretreatment of wastewater is not economically feasible. Hence, liquid effluent
    may be discharged via marine outfalls. Discharge points shall be established through wastewater
    discharge permits granted by the Atoll or Island Office, based on MHAE recommendations. Each
    health care facility must establish a Health Care Waste Management Plan, to be managed by the
    facility administration, and appropriate for the scale and type of activities of the facility, and
    identified hazards. A solid waste management plan should be developed for each island, with
    practical strategies to prevent and minimize waste production; re-use or recycle waste; waste
    treatment where feasible; and residual disposal in properly designed and controlled disposal sites.

    Monitoring identified potential impacts shall be by project proponents, supported by Atoll Offices,
    MHAE, and others. Monitoring impacts of construction waste disposal and of the timely and
    correct implementation of required mitigating measures should be carried out according to a site-
    specific plan. Where feasible this, oversight could be by Regional Offices, or, by Atoll Offices,
    guided by MHAE. Atoll Office and Island Offices must inspect construction activities. Project
    proponents must regularly report mitigation and monitoring activities to MHAE, as required in its
    EA approval. MHAE must provide feedback after post evaluation, and guide project EM through
    regular communication with project proponents at focus islands, especially for project activities
    that take place in distinct phases. These arrangements must address existing gap in EM of
    education and health sector projects (eg. construction of island schools and health care facilities).

    Capacity building and training is required to support timely and effective environmental
    management. Project support to capacity building will be to: (i) strengthen capacity of MHAE to
    implement EA; and (ii) strengthen capacity of local authorities, local PIUs in project facilities and
    MHAE to undertake screening, IEE, monitoring, and environmental management.




                                                                                                          1

2.0    Background to the Environmental Management Framework
2.1    Policy, legal and administrative framework


   1.  Policy directives, major laws and regulations on the environment, and marine and terrestrial living
       and non living resources define the regulatory framework for environmental assessment in the
       Maldives. Major laws are effected by rules and regulations established under these laws by
       relevant government agencies. Government directives and public announcements issued by
       relevant government agencies form another tier of the regulatory framework.

Policy framework

   2.  The Maldives Vision 2020 and the 6th National Development Plan (NDP) state major policy
       directives for environmental conservation and management. The Vision 2020 states that
       Maldivians will be able to take protective measures against threats to the country from global
       ecological degradation, and will be pursuing environmentally friendly lifestyles with the aid of
       modern technology (Ministry of Planning and National Development, 2002). Major environmental
       policies under the 6th NDP (Policies 20 to 23) are to: promote sustainable resource management
       through natural resource and biodiversity conservation; minimize dangers to the natural resource
       base and environment due to economic development and rapid population growth; contribute to
       international efforts to find solutions to global environmental threats, especially those pertaining to
       Small Island Developing States; and promote integrated planning and administrative practices by
       developing principles and procedures for sustainable resource use and environmental protection.


   3.  The project contributes towards achieving strategies identified by the 6th NDP, including to:

              Strengthen policies and implement procedures for protecting unique and vulnerable habitats
              and establishing protected area management systems;
              Develop guidelines to ensure that economic activities do not negatively impact the
              environment;
              Minimize damage to environmental health through R&D initiatives, awareness programs
              and legal instruments regarding pollution and waste management;
              Strengthen implementation and enforcement of a comprehensive framework of laws
              relating to natural resources and environment;
              Review the adequacy of institutional mechanisms and administrative arrangements and
              promote wider participation in implementing environmental policies and strategies; and
              Strengthen Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures (Ministry of Planning and
              National Development, 2002).

   4.  Other major environmental policy documents are the Maldives State of the Environment Report
       2002, Second National Environment Action Plan (NEAP2), and the Maldives National
       Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (2002). Major issues identified by the NEAP2 and 6th NDP
       include climate change and sea level rise, coastal zone management, biological diversity
       conservation, integrated reef resources management, integrated water resources management,
       management of solid waste and sewage, air pollution and management of hazardous waste,
       sustainable tourism development, land resources management sustainable agriculture, human
       settlement and urbanization, and the shortage of adequate human and financial resources.

Legal and administrative framework

   5.  The Environment Protection and Preservation Act of the Maldives (Law No. 4/93) is the key legal
       instrument defining the regulatory and institutional framework for environmental management. It
       empowers the Ministry of Home Affairs and Environment (MHAE) to take necessary steps as
       deemed necessary for environmental protection and preservation. The Act provides for



                                                                                                            2

   conservation of biological diversity, management of protected areas and natural reserves, and
   environment impact assessment procedures and guidelines. It empowers the MHAE to formulate
   environmental policies, rules and regulations in areas not addressed by another designated
   Government authority (Section 3 of the Act). Additional MHAE powers include the mandate to
   identify protected areas and natural reserves and to establish necessary rules and regulations for
   their protection and preservation (Section 4). Section 5 requires all proponents of development
   projects to submit and receive approval for an EIA in accordance with MHAE guidelines prior to
   starting any development project. The MHAE may terminate without compensation any project
   that has undesirable environmental impacts (Section 6). Section 7 prohibits disposal of wastes, oil
   poisonous gases on Maldivian territory, while Section 8 bans disposal of hazardous/toxic and
   nuclear waste in Maldivian territory. It also requires permission to be obtained for the trans-
   boundary movement of such waste in Maldivian territory. The MHAE is empowered to administer
   fines for violations of the Act up to a maximum limit of MRF 1,000,000 (Section 9).

6. The Fisheries Act (Law No. 5/87) and regulations made there under govern conservation and use
   of marine resources and biodiversity. Conservation and use of terrestrial flora and living resources
   is governed under The Act relating to Uninhabited Islands (Law No. 20/89) and the Act relating to
   Coconut Palms and Trees of Inhabited Islands (Law No. 21/89). Other relevant laws that contain
   provisions relating to environmental conservation and management include the Ocean Territories
   of the Maldives Act (Law No.6/96) and the Act relating to vessels that sink or get stranded in the
   Maldives (Law No. 7/69). The above legislation is supported by regulations and government
   directives issued by the relevant government agencies.

7. The above are strengthened by MHAE requirements for environmental impact assessment (EIA)
   and environmental management (EM) in major development initiatives. The EIA guidelines have
   been drafted and are in use, but are not institutionalized as regulations or government directive.
   Present EIA procedures are based on consultative scoping of EIAs, followed by internal review
   and decision making on submitted EIAs. Table 1 illustrates the roles and responsibilities of the
   MHAE, other stakeholder agencies and project proponents in environmental management.

   Table 1: Roles and responsibilities in environmental management

                                                         Actor
  Phase of EIA      EIA Administrative                                      Other Government
    Process          Agency (MHAE)             Project proponent                  Agencies
 Screening         Screen project           Submit project              Raise issues and concerns
                                            information                 Provide review comments
 Scoping / IEE     Approve TOR              Prepare and submit TOR      Raise issues and concerns
                   Review IEE               Prepare and submit IEE      Provide review comments
 Full EIA          Approve TOR              Prepare and submit EIA      Raise issues and concerns
                                                                        Provide review comments
 Review            Review EIA                                           Provide review comments
 Approval          Approve EIA                                          Approve project
                   Impose appropriate
                   terms and conditions
 Environmental     Oversee monitoring       Implement environmental     Implement monitoring by
 management                                 management measures         sector specific agencies
                                            and conduct monitoring
 Post audit and    Evaluate project         Submit necessary
 evaluation                                 information

8. The Building Code of the Maldives provides the regulatory framework for construction activities
   including management of construction waste. Approval for all construction projects must be
   obtained from the Ministry of Public Works and Construction. Dewatering Guideline issued by the
   Maldives Water and Sanitation Authority (MWSA) regulate discharge of water pumped as part of



                                                                                                     3

       building construction process or for laying pipelines or cables by ground excavation below the
       groundwater table. These guidelines are designed to manage the impact of dewatering on quality
       of water resources in the project area where a dewatering project takes place and by doing so
       protect the health and well-being of the people and environment. Approval must be obtained from
       the MWSA for dewatering project activities.

   9.  Other necessary approvals include approvals from the Ministry of Fisheries, Agriculture and
       Marine Resources (MOFAMR) for activities impacting on conservation of living and non-living
       marine resources, use of construction material such as sand and aggregate, and use of terrestrial
       biodiversity from uninhabited islands. In the case of use of burrow material and terrestrial
       biodiversity from inhabited islands, approvals must be obtained from the Ministry of Atolls
       Development (MoAD).

   10. In addition to local requirements, the relevant Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies of the
       World Bank should be taken into account. Based on the scope of project activities, the Bank's OP
       4.01 (Environmental Assessment) is applicable to this project. However, Natural Habitats (OP
       4.04), OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) and OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property) safeguard polices have
       been triggered in the present project, largely as a precautionary measure so that due attention is
       paid to ensure there are minimal impacts to the above mentioned safeguard policies. All World
       Bank safeguard policies require public consultation and disclosure. Environmental Assessment
       (OP 4.01) ensures that Bank-financed projects are environmentally sound and sustainable. It is
       triggered if a project is likely to have potential (adverse) environmental risks and impacts in its
       area of influence. OP 4.01 covers impacts on the natural environment (air, water and land); human
       health and safety; social aspects (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples and cultural
       property); and transboundary and global environment aspects. Considering the nature of this
       project, it is unlikely that there will be any significant and/or irreversible adverse environmental
       impacts. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that project activities may result in minor environmental
       impacts that need to be assessed and mitigated through Environmental Management Plans (EMP).

   11. OP. 4.04 (Natural Habitats) is triggered by any project with the potential to cause significant
       conversion (loss) or degradation of natural habitats whether directly (through construction) or
       indirectly (through human activities induced by the project). The Bank does not support projects
       that involve significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats. The environmental
       assessment process (OP 4.01) should identify any critical natural habitats within a proposed
       project's area of influence. For other natural habitats, the Bank does not support projects involving
       significant conversion of natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for the project
       and its siting. Comprehensive analysis should demonstrate that overall project benefits
       substantially outweigh environmental costs. If the project significantly converts or degrades
       natural habitats, it includes appropriate mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank, such as,
       minimizing habitat loss, and establishment and maintaining an ecologically similar protected area.

   12. OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) ensures that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects and
       that they receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits from Bank financed projects.
       The policy is triggered when potential adverse impacts on indigenous peoples in the project area
       are anticipated, and indigenous peoples are among the intended beneficiaries. OPN 11.03 (Cultural
       Property) assists in the protection and enhancement of cultural properties encountered in Bank-
       financed projects. The policy is triggered by projects which entail the risk of damaging cultural
       property. These include projects such as those that include large scale excavations, movement of
       earth, surficial environmental changes or demolition.

2.2    Project description

   13. The proposed Integrated Human Development Project aims to improve service provision and
       economic opportunities on four selected focus islands, Baa Atoll Eydhafushi, Lhaviyani Atoll
       Naifaru, Dhaalu Atoll Kudahuvadhoo and Laamu Atoll Gan. The four project components are: (a)
       improve education services; (b) improve health services; (c) support economic growth through



                                                                                                          4

    market based employment generating initiatives; and (d) capacity building for coordinating and
    managing community services. Project activities are presently being defined by the project team.
    Project activities eligible for funding under the project include:

           School rationalization; community managed residential learning centers; expanded class
           rooms, basic facilities, libraries, science rooms, IT centers; community houses for students
           from primary islands; teacher center and related civil works; in-service teacher training;
           annual learning assessments on focus atolls, with periodic national learning assessments for
           comparative purposes; and pilot testing of multi-grade teaching on focus atolls;
           Improve quality and level of health services on focus islands, including food security,
           nutritional promotion (micronutrient supplementation on focus islands), IT training of MoH
           staff managing telemedicine and distance learning points, training of primary health care
           worker in focus islands through distance learning.
           Micro-finance and micro-enterprise development, establishment of job centers, and
           facilitation of economic growth on focus islands through market based employment
           generation initiatives; and
           Capacity building to coordinate and manage community services, including development of
           community leadership and management, and support for Island and Atoll Development
           Committees, to increase effective utilization of available resources on focus islands.

14. Project activities will be located on selected focus and primary islands of the Maldives. All land is
    in the coastal zone. Some 80% of the total landmass (estimated at about 300 km²) lies a mere one
    meter above mean sea level. A large number of islands are uninhabited. Island population densities
    vary between very low (such as Laamu Gan whose population density is about 4.6 persons per
    hectare) and very high (such as Raa Kandholhudhoo with an estimated population density of
    nearly 800 persons per hectare). Islands such as the latter have little or no available land for
    residential expansion, unless land is reclaimed from the lagoon and reef tops. Uninhabited islands
    are leased for agriculture, tourism, fisheries and community activities. Land use planning is
    regulated by the Maldives Housing and Urban Development Board.

15. The Maldivian climate is dominated by the North East (NE) monsoon from December to February
    and the South West (SW) monsoon from May to September. Gale force winds are infrequent and
    given its latitude, cyclones do not reach the country. The islands are susceptible to seasonal coastal
    erosion. Episodic events such as storms can result in island or sand cay formation and inundation.
    The stormiest months are typically May, June and July. Average rainfall is about 9.1 mm/day
    during May and November, and 1.1 mm/day in February. Average air temperatures vary between
    30.0ºC and 31.7ºC. Tides are mixed, and diurnal to semi-diurnal. Tidal range is about 1.2 meters,
    with minor seasonal variations.

16. The Maldivian archipelago exhibits typical biogeography features of small tropical island
    ecosystems, including typical and pan tropical related ecosystems, such as sea grasses and
    mangroves associated with fresh or brackish water ponds. Coastal vegetation, an important
    ecological component of the coastal environment, includes: (i) coconuts, shrubs and other
    freshwater-dependent vegetation (ii) salt-tolerant vegetation (halophytes) and (iii) other native
    trees. Scientific studies note that the country's rare marine endemism may be indicative of its role
    as a colonization corridor, transferring genetic material between the eastern and western Indian
    Ocean. Provisional estimates indicate that the Maldives is one of the most species rich marine
    areas in this region. A detailed biodiversity inventory of the Maldives has not been undertaken.
    Along with the Chagos, Maldivian coral reefs have the greatest coral diversity in central Indian
    Ocean. Over 250 species of scleractinian corals belonging to 55 genera are estimated to be found
    in the Maldives. Reports indicate a higher diversity in the southern atolls. Over 1200 fish species
    (i.e. demersal species) have been recorded for the reefs and surrounding areas. Fish populations
    are reported to be diverse and abundant. Invertebrate fauna is not well documented. Maldivian
    coral reefs provide various products and services including essential coastal sea defense, fisheries,
    tourism and biological diversity functions. These reefs suffered from high mortality and reef
    degradation, and related physical and ecological impacts, following the 1998 coral-bleaching and



                                                                                                        5

       subsequent events. Given the long-term consequence of such degradation, it is essential to take a
       precautionary approach in conserving coral reef ecosystems.

   17. Terrestrial fauna is relatively low. Plan species numbers are estimated at 500, including introduced
       exotic and timber pants of which five are endemic. Thirteen species of mangroves are recorded,
       their distribution being uneven, with generally greater abundance and diversity in the south.
       Around 180 bird species have been recorded, with most being seasonal visitors, migrants or
       introduced species. Endemism and frequency of unique sub-species are high in the south.

   18. The population is unevenly distributed, with urbanization and overcrowding in Male'. The capital
       accounts for about 28% of the total population. Of the 199 inhabited islands, 11 have less than 200
       people, 67 (33%) have less than 500 people, and 144 (70%) have less than 1000 people. Only six
       islands have a population of more than 3000 people. Population growth rates have stabilized to
       about 2% in the 1990s. Over 50% of the population is 25 years of age or under, while about 40%
       is 15 years of age or younger, and 4% is 65 years or older. Migration tends to be from the atolls
       towards Male', the hub for commercial and social services. Factors affecting inward migration to
       the capital and surrounding areas include employment, higher education and comparatively better
       social services than available in island communities. The Vulnerability and Poverty Assessment
       (MPND, 1998) concludes that 13% of the population receive an income less than US$0.60 per
       person per day, 22% receive less than US$0.85 per person per day, and 43% less than US$1.30 per
       person per day. It reports that 20% of the nation's poorest population lives on 90 islands. These
       findings are supported by the ADB Poverty Analysis (2000).

   19. The Maldivian economy is dependent on two main industries (fisheries and tourism) for the fiscal
       revenues, foreign exchange earnings, employment and growth. Annual economic growth in 1997­
       2001 averaged 6.5%, a rate significantly higher than that of most South Asian economies and
       developing countries. Tourism accounts for over 30% of GDP, while fisheries is about 8% and
       agriculture below 3%. Most staple foods are imported, thus increasing food insecurity and
       vulnerability to external shocks. Agricultural production is constrained by limited physical
       resources, such as, low fertility soils, high salinity, limited fresh water supply, and lack of
       effective quarantine structures leading to pests and disease infestation. Population dispersal over a
       large geographical area raises costs of infrastructure and service provision. Factors increasing its
       economic vulnerability include the country's small size and remoteness; narrow economic base;
       dependence on imports and external aid; and vulnerability of tourism and fishing industries on
       external market conditions and fluctuations in the world economy.

3      Screening Criteria and Checklists of Potential Environmental and Social Impacts

3.1    Screening Criteria

   20. Screening is typically the first step in environmental assessment of potential project impacts.
       Screening is undertaken to achieve two objectives: to determine the required level environmental
       review for each project; and to help determine the choice of EIA instruments in accordance with
       project needs. Screening assists environmental agencies to avoid unnecessary assessments, while
       ensuring that the level of environmental scrutiny is appropriate to project scope and scale. The
       Maldives uses a three fold categorization in its EIA screening process: no EIA, an initial
       environmental examination (IEE) and an EIA. While EIA guidelines have not yet been
       institutionalized, MHAE uses informal guidelines in some sectors. It may give consent for a
       project to proceed without an IEE or EIA, but with monitoring requirements. Physical and
       ecological environmental impacts and social and economic aspects of a project are evaluated in a
       full EIA, as well as mitigation measures for predicted impacts. IEE and EIA scope and terms of
       reference are jointly developed by MHAE and the project proponent, based on an initial
       submission of a project proposal. MHAE seeks advice from relevant government agencies in
       report evaluation. Project implementation in accordance with the MAHE EIA decision note must
       be initiated within a maximum of 12 months. If not, MHAE may instruct the proponent to revert




                                                                                                          6

   back to the appropriate EIA phase, as deemed necessary in the light of changes to the natural or
   human environment within this period.

21. The World Bank's environmental screening procedure also uses a three fold system, that is,
   projects requiring a full EA (Project Category A), requiring an EA of reduced scope corresponding
   to limited environmental impacts (Category B) and projects deemed unlikely to have
   environmental impacts and hence require no EA (Category C). Details of screening procedures are
   described in the Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.01. Category A projects are likely to have
   significant adverse impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, or that affect an area
   broader than the sites or facilities subject to physical works. Category B Projects may have site-
   specific impacts and do not significantly affect human populations or alter environmentally
   important areas, including wetlands, native forests, grasslands, and other major natural habitats.
   Few if any of the impacts are irreversible, and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed
   more readily than for Category A projects. Category B Projects often differ only in scale from
   those of the same type in Category A. A project must be considered likely to have no adverse
   impacts at all, or impacts would be negligible in order to be classified as a Category C Project.
   This project has been assigned an Environmental Category B by the World Bank, which means
   that project activities require a partial environmental assessment.

22. While MHAE has not developed specific screening criteria, it utilizes general indicators based on
   project type and scale to determine projects requiring a full EIA. Projects requiring an EIA are
   grouped into five categories: industry, residential building and service community, transportation
   and infrastructure, energy, and water resources. The present project does not require a full EIA,
   given the type and scale of project activities. However, depending on project location and
   sensitivity of environmental issues at the selected site, the construction and operational phases of
   some activities (such as construction of service facilities, disposal of health wastes from health
   care facilities, disposal of fish waste from the operation of fish markets and so on) may require an
   IEE to assist in designing appropriate mitigation and monitoring actions. The following criteria
   were developed to assist in project screening.

23. This screening criteria is developed in two lists: a) site criteria which relate to sensitivity of the
   environment to potential impacts; and b) project criteria which relate to the nature and significance
   of project impacts. Both categories include environmental, social and economic criteria within that
   respective category. With respect to site screening criteria, depending on the nature and scale of
   impacts, a requirement for IEE or full EIA should be given in the event that the project is located
   in or near environmentally critical areas that are:

          protected sites, reserves, sanctuaries and habitats;
          in or near sensitive and valuable ecosystems such as wetlands, mangroves, coral reefs and
          habitat of endangered or threatened species, especially of endemic species;
          areas set aside for aesthetic and recreational use;
          in or near areas with archaeological and/or historical sites or existing cultural and social
          institutions;
          in densely populated areas, where resettlement may be required or potential pollution
          impacts and other disturbances may significantly affect communities;
          in regions subject to heavy development activities or where there are conflicts in natural
          resource allocation;
          on lands or waters containing valuable resources (such as fisheries, medicinal plants, prime
          agricultural soils); and
          frequently visited and/or hard hit by natural calamities including: high waves, chronic
          erosion, storm surges, and flooding.
   Considering that the development objectives of the Integrated Human Development Project
   includes improving social service provision and economic opportunities in a selected ecologically
   viable focus island in each of four selected atolls, the project will not finance any activities that are
   located in environmentally sensitive areas as listed above.




                                                                                                          7

24. With respect to project criteria which relate to the nature of project impacts, a requirement for an
    IEE or full EIA should be given in the event that the project:

           results in an irreversible destruction or degradation of natural habitat and loss of
           biodiversity or environmental services provided by a natural system;
           poses a risk to human health or safety (for example, from generation, storage or disposal of
           hazardous wastes, or violation of ambient air quality standards); and
           in the absence of effective mitigation or compensatory measures.

25. Decision on whether the project requires an IEE or EIA depends on the magnitude or significance
    of project impacts. Screening criteria for the Maldives should be significance-based rather than
    magnitude-based. This is because, given the limited site specific baseline data available in most
    islands, it will difficult to assess the magnitude of impacts in a reliable manner in a timely fashion.
    However, site specific study during project design can lend itself to significance based assessment
    of project impacts at the specified location. In the event that a magnitude based assessment is used,
    in the Maldivian situation it will be more valid to use a simple scale such as low, moderate and
    high, rather than a numerical based ranking using an ordinal scale. Based on this rationale, it is
    recommended that, with respect to screening projects based on significance of project impacts, a
    full EIA be required in the event that the project is assessed to have significant impacts.

26. The following criteria can be used to determine whether a given impact on an environmental
    parameter is SIGNIFICANT:

           spatial scale of the impact (site, island, atoll, or national);
           time horizon of the impact (short, medium, or long term);
           magnitude of change in the environmental parameter brought about by project activities
           (small, moderate, large);
           importance of the affected parameter to local human populations (for example, fish for
           consumption, drinking water, agricultural products);
           national or international profile of the affected parameter (for example, rare or endangered
           species);
           probability of occurrence for a specific impact; the cumulative impact of the project activity
           and other planned or ongoing activities; or
           if being altered from its existing or predevelopment status will have negative impacts on
           evaluation of the impacts of development (for example, on assessment of fish stocks).

27. A project activity may be assessed to have NO IMPACT if it is physically removed in space or
    time from the environmental parameter. If an impact occurs, but does not meet the criteria for
    significance, it is assessed to be INSIGNIFICANT. The potential impact of a project activity will
    be assessed as UNKNOWN if the:

           nature and location of the project activity is uncertain;
           occurrence of the environmental parameter within the project location is uncertain;
           time scale of the effect is unknown;
           spatial scale over which the effect may occur is unknown; or
           magnitude of the effect cannot be predicted.

    In such situations, further analysis is needed prior to making a decision as to the level of impacts.

28. The potential impact of a project activity on an environmental parameter will be assessed as
    MITIGATED, if there is potential for a significant impact; and the proposed mitigation measure
    will prevent the impact or reduce the impact to acceptable levels.




                                                                                                         8

      3.2       Checklist of Potential Impacts

  29. A general checklist has been developed to perform three functions: (1) identify environmental
      impacts of project activities; (2) identify measures to mitigate identified project impacts; and (3)
      identify monitoring indicators. Alternatives identification is not possible through a checklist, and
      should be carried out separately, utilizing checklist results. The checklist (presented in Appendix
      A) addresses the project's four core components and their impact categories: (a) site selection for
      construction of new facilities; (b) health care waste management; (c) construction waste
      management; (d) municipal solid waste and wastewater management; and (e) potential impacts of
      activities funded under Project Component 3 (market based employment generation initiatives on
      focus islands).

  30. Given the limited baseline data, technical expertise and financial resources available, as well as
      anticipated project activities, a simple checklist based on environmental parameters identified in
      the screening criteria is appropriate for the Maldivian situation. This provides a gross screening
      technique which is relatively flexible and user friendly. Typical impacts which could be caused by
      project activities are listed and assessed in terms of location, nature and magnitude and sensitivity
      of issues. Nature and magnitude are described by assessment of significance, based on available
      data and information. The sensitivity of issues is also determined in a similar manner. The number
      of specified actions and environmental parameters may increase or decrease depending on the
      nature and scope of the EA and the specific TOR for which the EA is undertaken. The matrix is
      applicable in the design, construction, operation and decommissioning phases of the project cycle.
      The checklist design is based on those used by the Asian Development Bank.

4     Environmental Codes of Practice

  31. This section presents recommended Environmental Codes of Practice for (a) site selection for
      construction of new facilities; (b) health care waste management; (c) construction waste
      management; (d) municipal solid wastes and wastewater management; and (e) for project activities
      eligible for funding under Project Component 3.

      4.1       Site selection for construction of new facilities

  32. Site selection for project activities on focus islands depends on physical characteristics of the site,
      as well as on socioeconomic concerns and needs of the community. Given the fragile nature of
      island ecosystems and their vulnerability, due care must be taken in site selection. EA for site
      selection must take into account all phases of the project, including preconstruction, construction
      and operation. It may not be possible to assess more than one site for the project activity, given the
      limited site choices on focus islands due to population density or clustering,. Site selection and
      evaluation must be based on accumulated experience and professional knowledge. National laws,
      regulations and guidelines on environmental, social and occupational health, and the
      environmental and social safeguard policies and guidelines of the World Bank should be used in
      evaluation of alternative sites, as well as for appropriate project design.

  33. The first step in EA during site selection must be to eliminate the least suitable sites using
      Checklist 1 (Checklist for environmental parameters in site selection for construction of new
      facilities) provided in Section 3.2 above. The project should not compete with other highly valued
      land uses. The site should not require high maintenance, nor should it be one that requires
      resettlement. Emphasis must be placed on avoiding impacts on sensitive habitats (e.g. island reefs,
      mangroves); rare, threatened, or endangered species; lands used by the community or with
      historical or cultural properties.

  34. The second step is to carry out a site analysis and evaluation to identify potential environmental
      impacts and their significance. In order to properly evaluate alternative sites, the best available
      data should be used in terms of environmental resources, important natural habitats, social,
      cultural, historic and economic uses of the site. Where there are gaps in documented information


                                                                                                           9

    or data, a useful approximation may be provided by local anecdotal information from key
    informants and focus groups. The objective is to understand the essential environmental
    parameters of the sites, not to provide an exhaustive environmental inventory of the site. A good
    base map is essential, supplemented by information on critical environmental parameters
    identified in Checklist 1. Project activities deemed to have potential moderate to high impacts on
    ecologically sensitive, difficult, or unsafe areas must be relocated to alternative sites, as
    recommended in Checklist 1.

35. The third step, following site analysis and evaluation, is to ensure that the project is
    environmentally sound. Established regulations and minimum standards for critical environmental
    parameters such as water quality must be adhered to. Significant issues identified in screening and
    evaluation processes must be addressed in project planning and design. Environmentally adaptive
    strategies must be in built into the project design from the outset. This will ensure project cost
    effectiveness in the long run. These strategies must take into account the fragility and vulnerability
    of island ecosystems, including island groundwater hydrology, coral reefs, lagoons and other
    sensitive areas. Mitigation measures suggested by the EA process must be incorporated into the
    project, as should recommended monitoring requirements. In addition, an IEE or detailed EIA
    must be carried out depending on impact nature and significance, sensitivity of the issues, and as
    required by the MHAE and the World Bank. The output from Checklist 1 can be used to scope the
    EIA and define its terms of reference. This approach must be flexible to conditions that may be
    imposed by the MHAE in its EIA approval, and must also take into account construction practice
    standards required under the Building Code of the Maldives (2001).

    4.2      Health care waste management

36. Atoll and island health care facilities are small scale, and include medical laboratories that perform
    basic blood tests, and provide limited ancillary services. Wastes generated by their daily
    operations include air emissions, wastewater effluents, health care waste, and solid waste. Their
    volume of health care waste is not high. A large percentage of this waste is general health care
    waste, generated by administrative, housekeeping and maintenance functions. Environmentally
    safe disposal of such waste and hazardous waste is important in the island ecosystem. Infectious,
    pathogenic and chemical wastes from health care facilities are hazardous and may create serious
    health risks unless safely disposed. This environmental code of practice addresses health care
    waste, while solid waste management is addressed in a separate code (see Section 4.4).

37. MHAE proposes to develop a National Policy on Health Care Waste Management and prepare
    guidelines for implementation of the policy. Based on the guidelines, each health care facility will
    establish a Health Care Waste Management Plan, to be managed by the facility administration.
    The Plan must be adequate for their scale and type of activities, and must address prevention and
    minimizing of waste production; practical measures for re-use or recycling; waste treatment by
    environmentally sound methods where feasible; and residue disposal in properly designed and
    controlled disposal sites. Waste characterization and segregation procedures must be defined, as
    well as waste collection locations and containers. These requirements and precautionary
    information must be clearly communicated to personnel and users.

38. Wastewater from island health facilities are not expected to have high volume of hazardous
    content. Since pretreatment of wastewater is not economically feasible, liquid effluent may be
    discharged via marine outfalls in a manner that ensures human and environmental health.
    Precautionary measures must be taken where substances introduced into the marine environment
    may create hazards to human health, harm marine ecosystems, damage amenities or interfere with
    other uses. Treatment levels and types shall be established through the EA. These could include
    wastewater from laboratories and x-ray development. Pharmaceuticals should not be discharged to
    untreated wastewater discharged by the marine outfall, but must be collected for separate
    treatment. Siting is important for marine outfalls, and pipeline routes. Discharge points shall be
    established through wastewater discharge permits granted by the Atoll or Island Office, based on
    EA outputs and MHAE recommendations. There shall be no discharge to surface waters.


                                                                                                        10

    Alternatives analysis should assess alternative sites for marine outfalls. An EA of the area is
    recommended if it is anticipated that an outfall might result in significant cumulative impacts due
    to multiple pressures within the area.     Any activities that will result in requiring new marine
    outfalls, will not be eligible for project financing. Therefore, project related activities will be
    limited to nutrient promotion, operation of community pharmacies and improving the quality of
    health services on focus islands by provision of training to health personnel, access to
    telemedicine and development and implementation of standard treatment protocols.

39. Health care solid waste shall, where feasible, be minimized in quantity and harmfulness through
    administrative and technical measures such as use of environmentally friendly and recyclable
    materials. Health care facilities shall implement a system for segregating waste into categories for
    separate handling consistent with its potential hazard. General solid wastes should be subject to
    recycling effected principally at the source, and residuals disposed of at a permitted and controlled
    disposal site. Wastewater from vehicle cleaning and disinfection is considered health care
    wastewater and shall be managed accordingly.

40. Hazardous health care waste includes infectious waste, pathological waste, pharmaceutical waste,
    chemical waste, genotoxic waste, radioactive waste, heavy metals, sharp waste and pressurized
    containers. It may not be possible for island health care facilities to return hazardous waste
    (pharmaceuticals, waste chemicals, instruments, etc.) to manufacturers (the ideal solution). Where
    feasible, such waste should be transported to the MHAE designated facility on Male' Atoll
    Thilafushi Island. Incineration of certain categories of hazardous waste (eg. infectious waste) is
    undertaken by the Waste Management Section which operates the Thilafushi facility. However,
    they cannot dispose of genotoxic wastes (which require temperatures up to 1200oC), as the
    incinerator is not one of high temperature. Compared to treatment on site, transfer of hazardous
    waste to Thilafushi is more feasible. In the longer term, an atoll wide health care waste collection
    system should be organized for transfer and disposal of hazardous wastes to Thilafushi. This
    would make it cost effective. If such a system is not feasible, innovative local waste management
    solutions involving encapsulation of sharps and other materials should be assessed for
    acceptability by MHAE on a case-by-case basis. Radioactive waste shall be managed according to
    national and international requirements. Transfer of health care waste to Thilafushi should be in a
    safe manner, in correctly marked containers and vehicles. Storage facilities and collection
    frequency shall be appropriate for the particular category of waste. Hazardous waste disposal at
    Thilafushi presently operates without regulation by either Health Ministry or MHAE. This gap
    should be urgently addressed and appropriate disposal methods, criteria and standards established.
    Since the incinerators at the Thilafushi Island waste disposal facility and other hospitals that have
    incinerators, are not the high temperature incinerators recommended for health care waste
    management by the WHO. Therefore, the potential for air pollution and associated public health
    impacts is high. Possibilities of sterilizing the waste through steam sterilization and subsequent
    "deep burial" could be one of the alterative options that needs to be explored for health care waste
    management.

41. Health Care Waste Management planning and implementation should be undertaken with
    community consultation, feedback and awareness building. The Plan should include a monitoring
    program in accordance with EA requirements. Monitoring data should be analyzed and reviewed
    at regular intervals and compared with national regulatory limits so that timely corrective actions
    can be taken. Sampling, monitoring, and chemical and bacteriological analysis shall be performed
    according to internationally recognized methods and standards such as the WHO or national
    methods of equal standing. Annual reports of environmental and social performance monitoring
    should be submitted to MHAE, and should contain quantitative data illustrating compliance with
    national regulatory limits for emissions to the environment and occupational health and safety.
    Considering the rudimentary health care waste management system currently practiced in the
    Maldives, the Government plans to address this problem in a phased manner. The first phase
    which is the development of a national policy and preparation of guidelines that could be
    implemented at the focus island level will be supported under this project.




                                                                                                      11

    4.3       Construction waste management

42. This code of practice for management of construction waste takes into account the Building Code,
    Dewatering Guidelines, and MHAE and World Bank requirements. Construction waste and debris
    disposal must be undertaken in accordance with the requirements of the Building Code. Sections 8
    and 12 of the Code address issues dealing with health safety of people and pedestrians. As
    required by the Code, construction proponents must use protective nets to control and mitigate
    dispersal and disposal of debris (such as, cement) and dust in adjacent and offsite areas. An
    enclosing temporary wall shall be built around the construction site to protect surrounding land,
    buildings, houses, roofs, roads, vegetation and people and pedestrians from construction debris
    and waste. Construction waste should not be disposed of or temporarily stored on roads or
    pathways, unless explicitly permitted by the authorities. Emission of any toxic or noxious air
    emissions as a result of construction work is prohibited. However, the Code is silent on required
    methods and means of disposal of construction waste.

43. Construction waste shall, to the extent feasible, be minimized in quantity through administrative
    and technical measures. The contractor shall implement a system for segregating waste into
    categories for separate handling and for reuse. Some types of construction waste can be recycled
    (eg. coral aggregate, building block, steel and wooden frames), and these should be segregated at
    the source and made available to the public. Residuals should be disposed of at a permitted and
    controlled disposal site. Disposal of construction waste and debris on islands should be at a site
    designated by the Atoll Office or Island Office, in accordance with MHAE requirements. Site
    selection shall be based on EA outputs and MHAE recommendations. This site must be separate
    from sites for disposal of household wastes, wherever possible; as household wastes are often
    burnt. Alternatives analysis should encompass alternative locations for disposal sites. An EA of
    the area is recommended if it is anticipated that a disposal site might result in significant
    cumulative impacts due to multiple pressures within the area.

44. Disposal should not be at a marine site, unless it is a plot designated for reclamation by the
    authorities. Precautionary measures must be taken where there is reason to assume that substances
    introduced into the marine environment may create hazards to human health, harm marine
    ecosystems, damage amenities or interfere with other legitimate uses. Most non-biodegradable
    waste generated by construction activities under the project is expected to be recycled, and
    residuals are not expected to have high volumes. Conditions of their disposal shall be established
    through the EA. The MHAE must be kept fully informed at all stages. The project will not fund
    any activities that will result in the need for marine disposal of construction waste.

45. Dewatering and discharge activities should be in accordance with the Dewatering Guidelines of
    the MWSA, which provides procedures, standards and criteria for these activities. Monitoring of
    impacts of construction waste disposal and of the timely and correct implementation of required
    mitigating measures should be carried out according to a site-specific plan. Where feasible this
    should be undertaken by Regional Offices, guided by MHAE, or alternatively, by Atoll Offices.

    4.4       Solid waste and wastewater management

46. Solid waste and wastewater management shall be in accordance with standards and guidelines
    issued by MHAE and MWSA respectively. Apart from the capital Male', all inhabited islands use
    systems of septic tanks and sludge junctions linked marine outfalls. Location, construction,
    installation and maintenance of septic tanks, sludge tanks, soak ways and marine outfalls should
    be strictly in accordance with MWSA guidelines, especially given the scarce groundwater supply
    on many densely populated islands and shallowness of the water lens. MWSA guidelines dictate a
    minimum 15 meters distance between water well and a septic tank; and a 10 meter minimum
    between these and sludge junctions. Leakage or seepage from the septic tank must be prevented.
    Where feasible, water proof compound must be use to construct concrete slabs at the septic tank
    top and bottom. The tank must be checked for leakage using water, prior to installation. The
    bottom slab must be constructed using nine millimeter steel rods, placed every 200 mm. Septic


                                                                                                   12

    tank size must be appropriate to the number of household users. Tank condition must be assessed
    every three to five years.

47. Atoll and Island Offices must establish regular inspection procedures to ensure that private
    individual sewage and wastewater systems are built to MWSA specifications. A monitoring
    program should be developed to observe trends in environmental quality at disposal locations.
    This can be, and infrequently is, done by well water sampling by Island Officials, and water
    quality analysis by MWSA in Male'. A systematic and timely procedure for sampling and testing
    should be developed for each Atoll. The frequency and level of sophistication of sampling
    depends on available facilities, services offered by MWSA, and the sensitivity of issues at the
    project location.

48. In the medium term, each island should develop a Solid Waste Management Plan. The Plan must
    incorporate principles for preventing and minimizing waste production; re-use or recycling of
    waste to the degree feasible; waste treatment by environmentally sound methods where feasible;
    and disposal of residues in properly designed and controlled disposal sites. Waste characterization
    and segregation procedures must be defined, as well as waste collection locations and containers.
    These requirements, and other requirements, prohibitions and precautionary information must be
    clearly communicated to the community. To the extent feasible, solid waste shall be minimized in
    quantity and harmfulness through administrative and technical measures such as promoting
    procurement of environmentally friendly and recyclable materials. Each island (through the Island
    Office or Island Development Committee) should implement a system for segregating waste to
    enable separate handling and disposal consistent with potential hazards. General solid wastes
    should be subject to recycling (effected principally at the source) and residuals disposed of at a
    permitted and controlled disposal site. Dewatering and discharge activities should be in
    accordance with MWSA Dewatering Guidelines. Considering that project financed activities will
    result in generation of solid waste and sewage from construction of education facilities and
    residential learning centers, the project will ensure that each construction complex will include an
    environmentally acceptable solid waste and sewage disposal system, which will be detailed in the
    sub-project specific Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

49. Disposal of solid waste and debris should be at a site designated by the Atoll or Island Office.
    Sites selection shall be based on EA outputs and MHAE recommendations. Alternatives analysis
    should encompass alternative locations for disposal sites. The designated site does not necessarily
    have to be on the same island. However, an off island waste disposal site can only be designated
    after prior written approval from MHAE and other relevant agencies. An EA of the area is
    recommended if it is anticipated that a disposal site might result in significant cumulative impacts
    due to multiple pressures within the area. Disposal should not be at a marine site, unless it is a site
    designated for reclamation by waste disposal. Precautionary measures must be taken where there
    is reason to assume that substances introduced into the marine environment may create hazards to
    human health, harm marine ecosystems, damage amenities or interfere with other legitimate uses
    of the sea or lagoon. Most non-biodegradable waste is expected to be recycled. Conditions of
    disposal of residuals shall be established through the EA. The MHAE must be kept fully informed
    at all stages.

50. A monitoring program should be established for the waste management system, and monitoring
    for environmental and human parameters be undertaken in accordance with EA requirements.
    Monitoring data should be analyzed and reviewed at regular intervals and compared with the
    national regulatory limits so that any necessary corrective actions can be taken. Records of
    monitoring results should be kept in a format acceptable to MHAE. Annual reports of
    environmental and social performance monitoring should be submitted to MHAE, and should
    contain quantitative data illustrating compliance with national regulatory limits for emissions to
    the environment and occupational health and safety programs. All facilities that are managed by
    communities will be monitored by community organizations.             Wherever possible, the other
    facilities should also be subject to community based monitoring, with the authorities overseeing
    the program.


                                                                                                        13

       4.5      Project activities identified under Project Component 3 and 4

   51. Project activities identified for funding under Project Component 3 include construction of multi-
       purpose buildings on the four focus islands. The site selection, construction, construction waste
       management and operation of these facilities should be in accordance with the environmental
       codes outlined above.

   52. Activities proposed under Component 4 include capacity building activities for coordinating and
       managing community services.          Island Development Committees may support community
       organizations in managing community based sanitation systems, solid waste management, water
       supply and public transport systems. The magnitude of these activities will be small, hence, with
       limited adverse environmental impacts. EMPs will be prepared for each separate activity and will
       be implemented and monitored by the communities under the guidelines provided by MHAE and
       the Atoll Offices.

5      Environmental Management Plan (EMP).


5.1   Overview and summary of impacts

   53. This Environmental Management Plan is structured into six sections: (1) Overview and summary
       of impacts; (2) Description of Mitigation Measures; (3) Description of Monitoring Measures; (4)
       Institutional Arrangements; (5) Implementation Schedule and Reporting Procedures; and (6) Cost
       Estimates and Sources of Funds. It was formulated in accordance with the procedures described in
       preceding sections of this report and with World Bank guidelines. Since the activities that will be
       financed under the project is not expected to result in significant adverse environmental impacts
       and virtually all proposed activities do not fall within the MHAE threshold for IEE or EIA,
       activity specific EMPs will be prepared for implementation. The EMPs will be prepared during
       the design stage of the proposed activity and the implementation of the EMP will be a part of the
       contractors contract.

   54. Project activities were screened to identify potential impacts using the recommended checklist.
       These results are presented in Appendix A of this report. Based on this assessment, the project can
       be classified as a Category B project. The screening procedure and assessment shows that project
       activities are likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. The project would not
       involve any conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats, or other natural habitats or
       cultural property. There will be no land acquisition since all sites identified has been
       unencumbered state lands, which is vacant. The Madives has a policy that the community can
       plant trees, generally coconut trees, on state lands and register the tree with the authorities. In the
       event there are such trees in the identified lands, compensation will be paid for the tree by the
       government after community consultations and consensus. Therefore, there will be no potential
       adverse impacts on local communities nor any resettlement. However, some activities may, unless
       careful project design and implementation is undertaken, potentially have site specific impacts of
       low significance. These are site specific impacts due to construction activities; improper disposal
       of construction waste; improper disposal of health care waste; and improper solid waste and
       sewerage disposal.

   55. Site specific impacts due to construction include site clearance; loss of vegetative cover;
       foreclosure of other land uses and construction waste. Some impacts may be offsite at sand and
       aggregate borrow areas and materials storage areas. Adverse environmental and social impacts
       may occur due to air and soil pollution from construction activities, dust, noise from construction
       equipment; trash and garbage; and the presence of a non-resident labor force. None of these are
       anticipated to occur to any significant level due to project activities since all project sites are on
       reclaimed land, or on land of low use with sparse vegetation cover. However, in order to offset any
       such potential adverse environmental and social impacts during project operation, mitigation (see




                                                                                                           14

       Section 4.2), monitoring (see Section 4.3), and institutional strengthening measures (see Section
       4.3) are recommended during implementation and operation of the project.

5.2   Description of Mitigation Measures

   56. Mitigation measures should be taken to minimize and offset identified potential impacts. Given
       that specific details of project activities are as yet unknown, mitigation measures are
       recommended based on previous knowledge and experience of such projects in the Maldivian
       environment.

   57. Given the fragile nature of island ecosystems and their vulnerability, due care must be taken in site
       selection. Site selection for project activities on focus islands must take into account the
       socioeconomic concerns and needs of the community and potential impacts during all phases of
       the project, including operation. The least suitable sites must be eliminated using the Checklist
       (see Appendix A) and the Code of Practice for Site Selection (see Section 4.1). The project should
       not compete with other highly valued land uses. Project design should address environmental
       issues identified in screening and evaluation processes. It should take into account the fragility and
       vulnerability of island ecosystems, including groundwater hydrology, coral reefs and enclosed
       lagoons and harbors. Project design should mitigate potential impacts on sensitive habitats (e.g.
       island house reefs, mangroves); rare, threatened, or endangered species; and on lands with
       historical or cultural properties. Dewatering activities must be in accordance with MWSA
       regulations, as should receiving water quality parameters. Construction site activity must be in
       accordance with the requirements of the Building Code of the Maldives (2001).

   58. Impacts of construction waste disposal shall be mitigated in accordance with the Building Code,
       Dewatering Guidelines, and MHAE and World Bank requirements. Construction waste quantity
       shall be minimized through administrative and technical measures. The contractor shall segregate
       waste categories for separate handling and for reuse. Most non-biodegradable waste generated by
       construction activities under the project is expected to be recycled, and residuals are not expected
       to have high volumes. Reusable material such as coral aggregate, building blocks and wooden
       frames should be segregated at the site and made available to the community. Residuals should be
       disposed of at a permitted and controlled disposal site, designated by the Atoll or Island Office, in
       accordance with MHAE requirements. This site must be separate from sites for disposal of
       household waste; as such wastes are often burnt on these islands. Where a new disposal site is to
       designated, alternatives should be considered in site selection. Disposal should not be at a marine
       site, unless it is designated for reclamation by waste disposal. An EA of the area is recommended
       if it is anticipated that a construction waste disposal might result in significant cumulative impacts
       due to multiple pressures within the area. The MHAE must be kept fully informed at all stages.

   59. There will be no health care facilities to be constructed or expanded under the project. Considering
       the nature of activities supported under the Health Services Component of the project, there will
       be no health care waste being generated as a direct result of project activities. Wastes generated
       by their day-to-day operations would include air emissions, wastewater effluents, health care
       waste, and municipal solid waste. Their volume of health care waste is not expected to be high. A
       large percentage of this waste will be general health care waste, generated by administrative,
       housekeeping and maintenance functions. Environmentally safe disposal of such waste and
       hazardous waste is important in the island ecosystem. Infectious, pathogenic and chemical wastes
       from health care facilities are hazardous and may create serious health risks unless safely
       disposed.

   60. Each health care facility must establish a Health Care Waste Management Plan, to be managed by
       the facility administration, and appropriate for the scale and type of activities of the facility, and
       identified hazards. It must incorporate feasible strategies to prevent and minimize waste
       production; re-use or recycle waste; waste treatment by environmentally sound methods where
       feasible; and disposal of residues in properly designed and controlled disposal sites. Waste
       characterization and segregation procedures must be defined, as well as waste collection locations


                                                                                                          15

    and containers. These requirements, and other requirements, prohibitions and precautionary
    information must be clearly communicated to personnel and users.

61. Island health facility wastewater is not expected to have a high volume of hazardous content.
    Pretreatment of wastewater is not economically feasible. Hence, liquid effluent may be discharged
    via marine outfalls, taking precautionary measures where there is reason to assume that substances
    introduced into the marine environment may create hazards to human health, harm marine
    ecosystems, damage amenities or interfere with other legitimate uses. Treatment levels and types
    for marine discharge should be in accordance with MHAE, MWSA and MoFAMR requirements.
    Pharmaceuticals should not be discharged to untreated wastewater discharged by marine outfalls,
    but collected for separate treatment. Discharge points shall be established through wastewater
    discharge permits granted by the Atoll or Island Office, based on MHAE recommendations. There
    shall be no discharge to surface waters. Where a new disposal site is to be designated, alternatives
    should be considered in site selection. It is not anticipated that an outfall might result in significant
    cumulative impacts within the area.

62. Quantity and harmfulness of health care solid waste shall, to the extent feasible, be minimized by
    administrative and technical measures such as use of environmentally friendly and recyclable
    materials. Waste shall be segregated into categories for separate handling consistent with its
    potential hazard. General solid wastes should be subject to recycling at the source, and residuals
    disposed at a permitted and controlled disposal site. Wastewater from vehicle cleaning and
    disinfection is considered health care wastewater and shall be managed accordingly.

63. It is not feasible for island health care facilities to return hazardous waste (pharmaceuticals, waste
    chemicals, instruments, etc.) to manufacturers (the ideal solution). Where feasible, such waste
    should be transported to the MHAE designated facility on Thilafushi Island in Male' Atoll. It is
    operated by the Waste Management Section, which oversees incineration of certain categories of
    hazardous waste (eg. infectious waste). An atoll wide collection system should be organized for
    transfer and disposal of hazardous wastes to Thilafushi. This would make it cost effective for
    island health care facilities. If such a system is not feasible, innovative local waste management
    solutions involving encapsulation of sharps and other materials should be assessed for
    acceptability by MHAE on a case-by-case basis.

64. The project is not expected to have major municipal waste components, apart from the by product
    of facility operation. Their disposal is not expected to have additional adverse environmental
    impacts. Location, construction and installation of septic tanks, sludge junctions, soak ways and
    marine outfalls must be in accordance with MWSA guidelines, especially given the scarce
    groundwater supply on densely populated islands and the shallowness of the water lens.

65. In the longer term, a solid waste management plan should be developed for each island,
    incorporating practical strategies to prevent and minimize waste production; re-use or recycle
    waste; waste treatment by environmentally sound methods where feasible; and residual disposal in
    properly designed and controlled disposal sites. Waste characterization and segregation procedures
    must be defined, as well as waste collection locations and containers. These requirements,
    prohibitions and precautionary information must be clearly communicated to the community.
    Solid waste shall, to the extent feasible, be minimized in quantity and harmfulness through
    administrative and technical measures such as use of environmentally friendly and recyclable
    materials. Each island (through the Island Office or Island Development Committee) should
    implement a system for waste segregation into categories for separate handling consistent with its
    potential hazard. Dewatering and discharge activities should be in accordance with MWSA
    Dewatering Guidelines. Solid waste disposal should be at a site designated by the Atoll or Island
    Office, in accordance with MHAE requirements. Alternatives analysis should include alternative
    sites for disposal sites. The designated site does not have to be on the same island. An off island
    site can only be designated after prior written approval from MHAE and other relevant
    government agencies. An EA of the area is recommended if it is anticipated that a disposal site
    might result in significant cumulative impacts due to multiple pressures within the area. Disposal


                                                                                                          16

       should not be at a marine site, unless it is designated for reclamation by waste disposal.
       Precautionary measures must be taken where there is reason to assume that substances introduced
       into the marine environment may create hazards to human health, harm marine ecosystems,
       damage amenities or interfere with other legitimate uses. Most non-biodegradable waste is
       expected to be recycled. The MHAE should be kept fully informed at all stages. Considering that
       the only solid waste and sewage generated by project activities is as a result of new education and
       associated facility construction, there should be measures in the EMP addressing how this waste is
       managed.

   66. Project activities identified for funding under Component 3 include construction of multi-purpose
       buildings on the focus islands. The site selection, construction, construction waste management
       and operation of these facilities should be in accordance with the codes identified above.

5.3    Description of Monitoring Measures

   67. Monitoring identified potential impacts shall be by project proponents, supported by Atoll Offices,
       MHAE, and community organizations, wherever feasible. These are low significance impacts
       including: site specific impacts due to construction activities; construction waste disposal; health
       waste disposal during operation of health care facilities; and solid waste disposal and sewerage at
       focus islands. Monitoring impacts of construction waste disposal and of the timely and correct
       implementation of required mitigating measures should be carried out according to a site-specific
       plan. Where feasible this, oversight could be by Regional Offices, or alternatively, by Atoll
       Offices, guided by MHAE. Atoll Office and Island Offices must inspect construction activities
       using good inspection practices to ensure that project sewerage systems are built to MWSA
       specifications. Trends in environmental quality at disposal locations should be monitored.
       Following current practice, albeit infrequent, this can be by well water sampling by Island
       Officials for water quality analysis by MWSA in Male'. A systematic procedure for sampling and
       testing should be developed for each Atoll. The frequency and level of sophistication of sampling
       depends on available facilities and services offered by MWSA.

   68. The Health Care Waste Management Plan should include a monitoring program for the health care
       waste management system established under it. Similarly, a monitoring program should be
       established for the solid waste management system. Changes in environmental and human
       parameters identified by the EA should be monitored. Monitoring data should be analyzed and
       reviewed at regular intervals and compared with national regulatory limits so that required
       corrective actions can be taken in a timely manner. Monitoring records should be kept in a format
       acceptable to MHAE. Sampling, monitoring, and chemical and bacteriological analysis shall be
       according to internationally recognized methods and standards such as the WHO or national
       methods of equal standing, wherever feasible. In activities that EMPs will be reviewed by MHAE,
       annual reports of environmental and social performance monitoring should be submitted to
       MHAE, and should contain quantitative data illustrating compliance with national regulatory
       limits for emissions to the environment and occupational health and safety.

5.4    Institutional arrangements

   69. Institutional arrangements to implement the EMP must be flexible, as detailed project activities are
       not yet identified. Institutional tasks for environmental management are: screening, scoping / IEE,
       full EIA (if required), review and approval of EIA, environmental monitoring, post audit and
       inspection, and management of mitigation measures, through EMPs. The MHAE is the oversight
       agency with statutory responsibilities for environmental management. Hence, environmental
       management of the project, although implemented by the MOE and line Ministries, must be under
       the guidance of MHAE. Gaps in the institutional process include lengthy delays in EIA review,
       inadequacy of the process due to lack of trained professionals, and the closed nature of the
       evaluation process. The latter can be attributed to the lack of evaluation procedures and guidelines.
       In activities that are below the EA thresholds of MHAE, the implementation of the EMP will be
       monitored by the PIU. The first two EMPs of each category of sub-projects (civil works, small


                                                                                                         17

    businesses, community services and health care waste management plans) will be reviewed and
    cleared by the World Bank to ensure that the quality and the spirit of this Framework is adhered
    to. Thereafter, the PIU will monitor the EMPs and have it on file for random post review by the
    World Bank during project supervision.

70. Table 1 (see Section 2) shows EMP and EIA responsibilities of MHAE, project proponents, and
    line agencies with mandates for environmental conservation (eg. MWSA, MOFAMR). Project
    proponents are responsible for providing project information for screening and scoping,
    undertaking IEE and full EIA (where required), implementing environmental management
    measures, monitoring, and submitting information for post audit and evaluation. Proponents of this
    project are line agencies and communities directly engaged in planning and implementing project
    activities. The three major line agencies in this project are MOE, MOH and MoAD. In the case of
    MoAD, this includes Atoll Offices and Island Offices on the four focus islands. Project proponents
    on focus islands include IDCs and any CBOs, NGOs, or private sector which implement project
    activities or receive financing under Project Component 3. As seen from Table 2, national and
    local agencies and community groups have inadequate institutional capacity for environmental
    management. All agencies face key problems of limited technological capacity and human skills.
    This is compounded by limited financial, technological and human capacity of communities and
    CBOs to take a more pro-active role in environmental management at the local level.

71. Existing gaps in institutional arrangements and procedural requirements for stakeholder
    consultation should be addressed. Development projects and EIA typically involve communities
    and NGOs only in formal consultations and during implementation stages. Project proponents
    should undertake greater stakeholder consultation and input at inception stages, and establish
    feedback mechanisms into policy and decision-making. All EMPs will be subject to public
    consultations.

    Table 2: Institutional strengthening and training requirements to implement the EMP

  Phase of the                                            Project
   EIA / EMP        Required      Available  Training   Assistance   Recommended action         Duration
     Process        expertise      (Y/N)      (Y/N)        (Y/N)
                                                                   1. Establish screening
                                                                   procedures and methods

 Screening       Graduate            Y          Y            Y     (eg. checklists)
                                                                   2. Short term training in    Short Term

                                                                   screening procedures and
                                                                   methods

 Scoping / IEE   Graduate            Y          Y            Y     Short term training in IEE
                                                                   procedures and methods       Short Term

 Full EIA        Senior                                            Build technical capacity
                 Professional     Limited       Y            N     through overseas training    Long Term

                                                                   1. Establish evaluation      1. Short

 Review EIA      Senior                                            procedures and guidelines    Term
                 Professional     Limited       Y            N     2. Build technical capacity  2. Long
                                                                   through overseas training    Term
 Approve EIA
 Impose          Senior                                            1. Establish evaluation

 appropriate     Administrator/   Limited       Y            N     procedures and guidelines    Not

 terms and       Professional                                      2. Build technical capacity  Required

 conditions                                                        through overseas training

                 Graduate/
                 School Leaver/                                    1. MHAE to provide
                                                                   technical support where
 Environmental   Environmental    Difficult                        feasible, and as required by
 management:     Officer at       at atoll /    Y            Y     Atoll and Island Offices     Short Term
 monitoring      RDMO/ Atoll       island
                 and Island        level                           2. Provide short term

                 Officials /                                       training in environmental

                 community                                         monitoring

 Post audit and                                                    Institutionalize EIA         Medium-
 evaluation      Graduate            Y          Y            N     evaluation procedure         Term




                                                                                                         18

   Capacity building and training is thus required to support timely and effective environmental
   management. Project support to capacity building will be to: (i) strengthen capacity of MHAE to
   implement EA; (ii) strengthen capacity of PIU to review and monitor EMPs; and (iii) strengthen
   capacity of community organizations in environmental monitoring;

5.5     Implementation Schedule and Reporting Procedures

   72. Project proponents must regularly report mitigation and monitoring activities to MHAE, as
        required in its EA approval. In instances where MHAE approval is not required, mitigation and
        monitoring reports will be sent to the PIU.       Mitigation and monitoring must begin with project
        implementation. MHAE or PIU (as the case may be) must provide feedback after post evaluation,
        and guide project EM through regular communication with project proponents at focus islands,
        especially for project activities that take place in distinct phases. These arrangements must address
        existing gap in EM of education and health sector projects (eg. construction of island schools and
        health care facilities).

   73. Capacity building shall begin with project initiation (see Table 3). Support to institutionalize the
        EMP evaluation process will be initiated within the first 3 months. Short term training will be
        scheduled in two phases. The first phase will be implemented for proponents of education and
        health components, local PIU staff, local authorities and CBOs/NGOs on focus islands, when
        project activities are initiated in focus islands and. The second phase will be implemented when
        funds have been dispersed under Project Component 3 (Support for economic growth).

        Table 3: Implementation schedule for EMP

                             Activity                                 Responsibility         Target Date
    A. Mitigation measures
    Design Mitigation Plan and obtain MHAE approval              PIU/Project proponents    September 2004
    (if applicable)
    Implement Mitigation Plan                                    Project proponents        December 2004
    B. Monitoring Plan
    Design Monitoring Plan and obtain MHAE approval              PIU/Project proponents    September 2004
    (if applicable)
    Implement Monitoring Plan                                    Project proponents        December 2004
    C. Capacity building and training
    Support to institutionalize EIA evaluation process
    Identify and recruit national consultant                     PIU / MHAE                August 2004
    National consultant starts work                              As Above                  September 2004
    National consultant's preliminary report                     Consultants               October, 2004
    National consultant's final report                           Consultants               November
    Short term training and capacity building program            MHAE                      April 22, 2004
    Design and prepare short term training program               MHAE                      January 2005
    Implement first phase of training                            MHAE/PIU                  April 2005
    Implement second phase of training                           MHAE/PIU                  April 2006
        NB: Target dates assume that project is approved in June 2004, and implementation begins in July
        2004.




                                                                                                          19

6  References
    Asian Development Bank, 2002. Poverty Reduction in the Maldives: Issues, Findings, and
            Approaches. Manila, Philippines: Asian Development Bank.
    Maldives Water and Sanitation Authority, 2003. Sewerage Disposal. Male', Republic of Maldives.
    Ministry of Construction and Public Works, 2001. The Building Code of the Maldives, 2001.
            Male', Republic of Maldives. Ministry of Construction and Public Works
    Ministry of Home Affairs, Housing and Environment, 1999. Second National Environment Action
            Plan ­ NEAP II. Male', Republic of Maldives.
    Ministry of Home Affairs, Housing and Environment, 2001. Maldives Biodiversity Strategy and
            Action Plan. Male', Republic of Maldives.
    Ministry of Planning and National Development, 1999. Republic of Maldives Vulnerability and
            Poverty Assessment, 1998. Maldives: Ministry of Planning and National Development.
    Ministry of Planning and National Development, 2002. Sixth National Development Plan 2001-
            2005. Republic of Maldives. 2nd Ed. Min. of Planning and National Development: Male'.
    The Environment Protection and Preservation Act of the Maldives (Law No. 4/93)
    The Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies of the World Bank, 1999, and updates.
    The Fisheries Act (Law No. 5/87)
    The Act relating to Uninhabited Islands (Law No. 20/89)
    The Act relating to Coconut Palms and Trees of Inhabited Islands (Law No. 21/89).
    The Ocean Territories of the Maldives Act (Law No.6/96)
    The Act relating to vessels that sink or get stranded in the Maldives (Law No. 7/69).
    The President's Office, 1999. Government Agencies and their mandates. Second Edition. Public
            Services Division, The President's Office: Male'.
    The President's Office, 2002. Vision 2020 of the Republic of Maldives. The President's Office,
            Male'. Unofficial translation.




                                                                                                20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              High                                     (E6)


                                                                                                                                                             Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  erate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (E5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mod

                                                                           (E)                                                                                     Significant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lo                                  (E4)
                                                                              impact
                                                                                    of

                                                                                                                                                           No                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   impact                          (E3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      significant

                                                                                      Significance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 impact                                        (E2)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t                                                                   n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        now
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Impac                                                                                                          (E1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           unk


                                                                                                  d
setivi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ton                                                                       isth                                                                                                                                                        lost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  de                              em                              s                                                                                                                                                                                                              de                                                                                                        ton
                                                                                                   nde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ect                                                            los
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         inco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ect                                                                                                                                                                            isth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              should                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       island                                        ty                                                                                                                                                                                                 island                                                               ty

      actit                                                                                           mmeoc                                                                                                                                                      catorsid                                                (D)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                    area                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                         affyel                           ofs                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                       affyel                                                                                                  should
                                                                                                                                                                              monitoring                                                                                 in
                                                                                                           Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              proceed                                                                                        zeiS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                       aesthetic

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Project                                                                       be                                                        site                              2a.                                                      significance                                                               habitat                                                                                                                                                           2b.                                    mmunioc                                                              rmet                                                                                                                                %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  advers                            in                              and                                                                                              3a.                                                           mmunioc                                                                                                                                                                                                                   proceed

           ojecrp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                advers                                                                                                  Project                                                                    be                                                      etis


                 ofsct                                                                                                               d                                                                                   resus                                                                                                                                                                             eb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             not                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                not
                                                                                                                                      nde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           teis                                                                                                                                                           ectj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ectj                                                                                                           fo                               e                              ativn                                                             andcti                                                                                                                                       gni                              c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Reloc                                   siter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mea
                      impa                                                                                                               mmeoc                                                                                   ion                                                                         (C)                                                                                                should                                                                  isthta                                                                                                                                                         pro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pro                                                                          re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              des                                                                                                                                                                                                    /l                                                                                                      het
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 sitel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        site                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      site                                                            hetist                                     should                                                                                                                         ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                     fule                                         and                                 minimize                                oth                           uses                            provid                             altere                                                             hetsea                                                       usla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                 on                                                                         ives                                                                                                                                                                                               fule                            and                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                        tes.si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      al
                                                                                                                                              Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Car                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Provid                                                                                                                        tiona                                                                                                         aeez                                                                                                                                                                  ologie                                                                                                    tot

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mitigat                                                                                                                                                                           Project                                                                                                                                                         refuaC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rnate                                                                                                                                                                                              Car                                                               mini   pact                            Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.                                                               proceed                                                                                       2a.                                                              planning                                                    design                                                                                                                          2b.                                      planning                                   design                             impact                       beneficial                        resource;          alt                   3a.                                                             areas                                                        recre                                         3b.                         planning                               mi     im                                 4a.                                                     proceed                                                           archa                                                         historic                                 projec


                          environmental                                                                                                         e                                                                                          t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                 th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sslo
                                       oftn                                                                                                                                                                                                 en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e                                                                                                                                                                                                           e

                                                                                                                                                   on                                                                                         m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ciali                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            thes                                                                                                                                                                                                        usla                                                                           ent                                                     /

                                                                                                                                                     ctap                                                                                                                                                       (B)                                                                                                                                                                                   lueavl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                     lueavl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               viron                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cai                                                                                                                                                             cai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                esluavla
                                           ssme                                                                                                          mI                                                                                         en                                                                                                                                                                           Loss                                                                                                                                                            Loss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.                                                                        ecolog                                                                                2a.                                                                       ecolog                                                                                                                                                                       fotnemriapmI.b2                                    nefeb                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                           and                                                                                                         tic                                tiona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Loss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rmeP                                                historical
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    other                          uses                                                                                                                                               3.                                                        values                                                      impairment                                      aesthe                               recre                                                                          4a.                                                       of                                                           cultur
                                               asse
                                                   for                                                                                                                                  d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        de                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                         an                                                                                                                                                             ect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              as                                                                                                                                                                       ies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ical
                                                                                                             affect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ral
                                                                                                                                                                                           rces                                                                                                                                                            proj                                                                         serveser                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                     co                                       ngera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                histor                                                       andla
                                                                                                                   that                                                                        ou
                                                      Checklist                                                                                                                                  res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     withsa                                                                                                                         cultur                                        s
                                                               A:                                                      tionsca                                                                      tal                                                                                                                     (A)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           values                                                                              toeudst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     chuss                                                                                                                       end                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         for                                                              ional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             important
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sites,                                                               habitats                       itives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sen                                                   emtsy                                                                      oves,                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tati               ecips                 ecpscime
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             end                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eatrcre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and/or

                                                                                                                                                                                                       en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         are                                                                                                                                                                     utiont
                                                                 ndix                                                                                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                            pac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         im                                                                                                                                                     ies                          earn                                                    ecos                                                                       mangr                                           hab

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      protected                                                                                                  or                                                      le                                                                                                                        and              enedat                      ofy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           astessa                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                    earn                                                                                                                        existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   all                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            insti
                                                                                                                                                                                                          viron                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       commercially                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                                              or
                                                                                                                              Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tion
                                                                     Appe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In                                                                                                  In                                                                                                                                                                                                     thre                        peci
                                                                                                                                                                                                               en                                                                                                                                                          Direct     loca                                                                       1.                                                                sanctuar                          2.                                                    valuab                                                                    wetlands,                                        reefs                   or                          es                      and eciesps                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           In                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.                                                                  aes                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.                                                      archaeological                                                        sites                                     social

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x                                                                                                                                         x




                                                                                                                                                                                    x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x                                                                                                                                                                                                                   x                                                                                                                                                                                         x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of

lost
    of                                     eaarfo                                                 elbi                                       s;t                                                                     de                                   em                                                                      ton
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ect                                                                       to                                                                                                    isth                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                      fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  de                                em                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   de                                                                    me
                                                                                                      visyb                                     pac                                                                                                         inco                                                                                                                                           at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                           of                                                                                                                                    ect
                                                                                                                                                   im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         factors                                                                   level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 inco                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       inco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          impacts                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                  turean                                                                                                                  ,                                            and


      Size                                       zeis;                                                                                               tic                                                                                                                                                                             should                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                           edt                                                                       community                            affyel                                ofs

                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                   rmet                            visitors            tesise                                                                                proceed                                                                         andep                                                                              hazards                                                                                                      andep                                                                                                                                                                         community                                           affyel                             ofs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       community                                                                      affyel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                               rmet                                                                                                                                                                                   project                             of                                                                                                                                             terms                                                                                   andep                                                                                                                                                             nitudeg
          4b.                                         area                                                    affec                                     aesthe                                  %                               advers                                 in                                  from              thes          Project                                                                  be                                                      site                  Ty                               magnitude                                           health                        nuisance                                                                     Ty                                                              resource                                             conflicts                                                      %                                              advers                              in                      Nature                           significance                                existing               environmental problems,   significance        negative        of                             %                                                                         advers                                                                  in                                                                                      Ty                                                     hazards                                                frequency                                             ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         la
                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                              sites,                                                                                                                                                                              not                                                                 site
                                                                                                                   close
             of                                                                                                                                                                                  ning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ectj                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decision                                                                                                                      ectj                                                                                                                                  ectj                                                                                                                                                 totce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      totce
               se                                           located                                                     int                                         such                                                              minimize                             cultur/c                                                                                                                                       isth                                                                                                                  pro                                                                          health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    site                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                                                                        pro                                                                                                                                   pro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             site                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       proj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       proj
                 caeht                                                                                                     bu                                           to                                                                    to                                                                                                     should                                                                   at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    derl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sitel
                                                                   not                                                                                                                                                                                                             histori                                                                                                                                                                                                              fule                                       and                                       minimize                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fule                                          and                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                    tea                                                                   site                                                                                                                                                                 tea                                                site

                      In                                                                                                     sites                                                                   anlpetisl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                design                                    of                                                               Project                                                              proceed                                                                     Car                                                                                                                                                                                         akehotS                                                                                                                                                      Car                                                                                                                                    refuaC                                                                                                                                                                                             loc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        loc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Re
                        4b.                                           projects                                                    such                                    proximity                           carefu                                  and                                   loss               values.                                            5a.                                                                  be                                                                      5b.                                    planning                                         design                         nuisance hazards                                                         6a.                                                                  participation                               making                                  6b.                                       planning                            design                                                      6c.                                   planning                      design                                                                                                                        7.                                                                another                                                                                                                                                                  8.                                             another

                           fotnemriapmI.b4                                    ral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fo                                                                                  n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,e

                                                                                 cultu/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 incom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to                                                  of
                                                                                       al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            al

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Soci.
                                                                                         historic                                     values                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5a                                                           inequities                                                                anecnasiuN.b5                                                                                                                                                                                   sslo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                     other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              zards                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                    uses                                                                                  ica

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ha                                                                                  al                                                                                                                                                                              y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                              social
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tensif                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            zard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Soci.                                                                                                                                    community                                           Loss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       heal                                                                                   6a                                                          disruption                                                                       of                           harmon            6b.                                 beneficial                                     resources                                   In.c6                        existing                                                                                                                                                                                                 Loss                                                                                                                   pacts                                                                                                            Ha                                                                                           lit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                 environmental               problems                                                                                                                              7.                                                              negative                                                im                                                                                                            8.                                            operation                                       faci



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              al                                                                   herto                                                                                                                                                                                                        dnastc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sourceser                                                                                                                                                                                                                             la                                                                                              storm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       visited
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                potenti                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sourceerla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   high
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            minerals,                                         prime,                )                         tly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      impa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            waters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     en                                                           naturyb                                                ing:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ent,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              udl                                     erosion,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           em                                                              impact                                                                                                                                                                                                         vetia                                                               natur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or                                                                 ableluav                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ttle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sheries,if                                     plants           soilsl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   frequ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lands                                                                                                                                            as                                                          ltura                                                                                        rdah                                                inc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         chronic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cumul                                                                                                                            cat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                On                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Areas                                                                                                                       am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.                                                           pollution      disturbances                                                                                                                                                                                        6.                                                               conflicts                                                     allo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.                                                                containing                                                                (such                                    medicinal             agricu                       8.                                                             and/or                                                    cal                                       waves,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x




                                                                                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x                                                                                                              x                                                                                                                                                                                   x                                                                                                                                                                 x                                                                                                                                                                                       x                                                                                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              air                                                                                        ds               ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ns                                                                                                                                                                                                     in

                                          land                                                                                                                                                    water                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ine                                                                        e                                                                                                                                                                             retuan
of                            ec              in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  isance                                   hazar           ency                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                        patter                                                                                         ltusera                                                                                                 anges                                                project
                                                                                                                   area                                                                                on                                                             and                                                  y                          levels
                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   andep                                                                                                                       nu,                                                                                                                                                                                ofy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as                           incom                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ch                                                     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      chang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                health                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                              and                                                    due

  intensity                     occurren        Changes                                                                  value                                                                           Impacts                                                         quality                                            drologyh                                                                                                                                                                                                           frequ,ep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pact                                                                                                                                                                                          project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ty                                                                impairment                                              quality                                    and              Ty                                               magnitude                                                             intensit       hazards                               -                                                                                                                                                                          Nature                                                magnitude                             im                                                                      Migration                                                 and                                     numbers                of       Existing                                                                 gap                                                    gap                                             Depends                                                      of



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ectj                                                                                                                                                         ectj                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                        tot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ngi                                                                                                                   ecj
                                                       planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pro                                                                                                                                                          pro
                                                               site                                                           design                                                                            site                                                                                                                                               site                                                                                                                                                                                     design                                                                                                                                                                        pro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    plann                                                                                                                                                                                                                           site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              plus                                                     ithwy                                   site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            plus                                                ithwy                                                                       site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                plus                                                   ithwy                                                     on

                                                                   fule                                                                                                                                             fule                                                                                                                                               fule                                                                                                                                                                                       fule                                                                                                                                                                       tea                                          site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                loc                                                                                                     fule
                                                                                                                                    project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  se           fule                                                                                                                                                              se                                  fule                                                                                                                                               se                              ndse

                                                                       Car                                                                                                                                              Car                                                                                                                                                Car                                                                                                                                                                                        Car                                                                                                                                                                          Re                                                                                                       Car                                                                                                                                                               Car                                                                                                                                                                                                   Car                                                                                                                                                                                Dep                                         impact
                                                                          9.                                                               and                                                                             10.                                                            planning                                  design                                    11.                                                                      planning                                   design                                                                 12.                                             operations                                                                                                                  13.                                      another                                                          14.                                                       selection,                                                consistenc                  polici            15.                                                            selection,                                           consistenc                               polici                                   16.                                                          selection,                                              consistenc               polici                               17.                                            of


                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                 n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ciali                                                                                                                                                        of                                       rolt                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                                          able                                                                                                      able                                                                                                                                                              le                                                                    ies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ce                                                                                                        ce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lev                                                                                                                      dteag                                                                      le                                                                  ies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lev                                                                                                                       dteag                                                  on

                                                                                                                                              luesav                                                                                                                                                   nefeb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          health                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          uses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                epla                                   precious                                                           epla                                                       precious                                                                                                                                                                     pola                                                ne                                                                                                                                              pola                                                   ne                                                  ndse                                              of

                                                                              Impairment                                                                                                                                        Impairment                                                                                                                                        Intensificatio                                                                 problems                                                                                                     Hazards                                                                                                 tyfe                                                                        Irr                                        of                                                             Irr                                                            of                                                                                            High                                                                                                                         be                                                                       High                                                                                                                          be                                                    Dep
                                                                                        9.                                                          land                                                                                  10.                                                               other                             water                                             11.                                                                      of                                    pollution                                                             12.                                                    workers                                       sa                                                                         13.                                       loss                       resources                            14.                                                           loss                                            resources                                       15.                                                                    nation                                              may                                                                        16.                                                                  nation                                                 may                                                    17.                                          nature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      eri                                                                                                                                                                         e                                                                                                                                                             na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           us
                                                                                          land                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           crit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     urb                                                                                                                                                                                                 poor/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rela                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ource
           ding                                                                               jacent
                                                                                                    ad                                                  including,                                                                           oundwater                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ionss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  res                                                                                                                                                          rural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     viewer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            issions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gains                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     affluent                                                                                                                                                                                                                      roblemsp
               floo                                                                                   on                                                          uses
                   and                                                                                                                                                         ourismt/noit                                                             on                                                                                                                                                         em                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   xploe                                                      cal                                                  precious                                   ourcessere                                                                edt                                                                                                                                                            blea                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         potential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ctse                                                   y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     stea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             iticr                                                     of                                           abl                                                                era                                                   term
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ace                                                                cel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gap

                                                                                                        Impacts
                      surges,                                                                                  9.                                                     economic             earcre                                                             Eff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.                                              drologyh                                                                                               W                                                                                                                                                              Hazardous                                                                                                                                                                                 Use                                                                                                                 Ac                                                  short                                                                                                 Undesir                                                                                                                                                                                              Increase                                                                                                                                                                     Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.                                              siting                                                                                                                12.                                                         spills/fires/                                                 Overall                                                   13.                                           irrepl                                                               14.                                                    for                                                                                                     15.                                                migration                                                                                                                                          16.                                                 income                                                                                                                17.                                       environmental

