Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3948 MAL 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Integrated Human Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3948 MAL 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Community Based Organization” or “CBO” means a non-profit 
community group or cooperative including island development committees, atoll 
development committees and women’s development committees, established and existing 
for the purpose of carrying out developmental activities beneficial to the community; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the plan dated  
May 4, 2004, prepared by the Borrower, and referred to in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of the 
Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said plan, as such plan may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association. The Environmental Management Plan includes an 
environmental management framework which sets out procedures and guidelines to 
assess Sub-Projects for purposes of ensuring compliance with environmental and social 
safeguard standards. 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means a twelve-month period beginning on January 1 in 
any year and ending on December 31 of the same year; 
 
(g) 
“Focus Islands” means the islands of Eydhafushi in Baa Atoll, Naifaru in 
Lhaviyani Atoll, Kudahuvadhoo in Dhaalu Atoll and Gan in Laamu Atoll, which have 
been selected by the Borrower for the development and concentration of social services; 
 
(h) 
“Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to finance a Sub-Project; 
 
(i) 
“Line Ministries” means MCST, MHAE, MOE, MEL, MFT, MOAD, 
MOH, MPND (as all hereinafter defined); 
 
(j) 
“Malé” means the Borrower’s capital city; 
 
(k) 
“MCST” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Communications, Science 
and Technology or any successor thereto; 
 
(l) 
“MEL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Employment and Labor or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(m) 
“MHAE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Home Affairs and 
Environment or any successor thereto; 
 
(n) 
“MFT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Treasury or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(o) 
“MOAD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Atolls Development or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(p) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education or any successor 
thereto; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(q) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(r) 
“MPND” means the Borrowers Ministry of Planning and National 
Development or any successor thereto; 
 
(s) 
“PMC” means the Project Management and Coordination Section to be 
maintained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for goods, 
works and services to be procured under the project, dated May 14, 2004, covering the 
initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover 
succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(u) 
“Project Steering Committee” (formerly the Project Preparation and 
Implementation Team) means the Committee referred to in paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, the establishment and composition of which was communicated to the 
Association in a letter dated April 19, 2004; 
 
(v) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
dated May 14, 2004, prepared by the Borrower and referred to in paragraph B of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
 
(w) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on August 4, 2003, and on behalf of the Borrower on  
December 30, 2003; 
 
(x) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(y) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
 
(z) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Parts C.2 and D.3 of the Project, 
in respect of which a Grant has been, or may be, provided in accordance with criteria set 
forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,900,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the effective date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2015, and ending July 1, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2024, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the Line Ministries under the coordination of MOE with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic, 
health and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan and the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions shall be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
final completion report including a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of 
the Project’s objectives; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said report and plan. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) In order to achieve the objectives of Parts C.2 and D.3 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Association 
pursuant to which the Borrower shall select Sub-Projects to be carried out under Parts C.2 
and D.3 of the Project.  
 
(b) 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Association, no 
expenditures required for a Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, unless the Borrower shall have carried out, in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, an environmental assessment for the Sub-Project, and 
shall have undertaken processes and activities to mitigate any negative environmental 
impacts of such Sub-Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan, 
together with evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the Sub-Project shall not 
involve any involuntary resettlement of the local population and/or businesses and that 
there shall not be any construction in environmentally sensitive areas as defined in the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the As
sociation’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, 
and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Project, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of State of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Ameenee Magu 
Malé 
Republic of Maldives 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(960) 324432 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES 
 
By  
 
 
 
 
       /s/ Mohamed Jaleel 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
 
 
           /s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
Country Director 
Maldives 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
3,310,000 
 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,860,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 1,980,000 
 
100% 
 
services and Audit Fees 
 
 
 
(4)  
Training and Workshops 
2,010,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) 
Grants 
 
   100% of amounts 
 
Disbursed 
 
(a)  Under Part C.2 of the Project 
210,000 
  
 
(b) Under Part D.3 of the Project 
280,000 
 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6)  
Incremental Operating Costs 
        450,000 
   
100% of expenditures 
 
for Year 1 of the 
 
Project, 100% of 
 
expenditures 
 
for Year 2 of the 
 
Project, 
 
80%
of expenditures 
 
for Year 3 of the 
 
Project, 60% of 
 
expenditures for 
 
Year 4 of the Project, 
 
and 40% of 
 
expenditures for  
 
Year 5 of the Project 
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
350,000 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
 
to Section 2.02 (b) of 
 Advance 
 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
450,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 10,900,000 
 
==========
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of office rental and utilities charges, salaries 
and allowances of incremental staff, transportation/travel expenditures, satellite 
connectivity charges and other communications’ expenses. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association a statement 
with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period following the date of such request. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
 
Maldives Monetary Authority or in a commercial bank
 
acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as 
the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of one million United States dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the delivery 
of social services and promoting economic opportunities on Focus Islands, so as to offer 
viable alternatives to Malé. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Education Services
1. 
Expanding access to, and improving the quality of secondary level education 
through the establishment and equipping of physical facilities on the Focus Islands, 
including information and communications technology centers, science laboratories, extra 
classrooms, multi-purpose activity rooms and libraries. 
 
2. 
Provision of academic and management training to teachers and administrative 
staff in the school system through internet-based support courses and face-to-face 
training programs, and provision of teaching materials. 
 
3. 
Carrying out a program of construction, furnishing and equipping of residential 
learning centers on the Focus Islands for the benefit of students attending secondary 
school away from their home island, and provision of training to island communities to 
manage these centers. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of research, evaluations and studies on student and school 
performance on the Focus Islands as well as on other islands through the provision of 
training and technical advisory services to staff of MOE. 
 
Part B
:
Health Services
1. 
Improving the quality of health service delivery through: (i) development of 
standard treatment protocols for the improvement of quality of care for non-
communicable diseases; and (ii) provision of equipment and training for the 
establishment of telemedicine services at the Atoll hospital in the Focus Island of Naifaru 
and the Regional Hospital in the Focus Island of Gan. 
 
2. 
Carrying out a program of nutrition promotion on the Focus Islands including 
monitoring, education and demonstration of nutritious foods through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training to family health workers, households on Focus 
Islands and staff of MOH. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
3. 
Supporting the establishment, equipping and stocking of community pharmacies 
on the Focus Islands and provision of training
 to CBO’s for the operation of the 
pharmacies. 
 
Part C
:
Employment Services
1. 
Establishment of job-centers on the Focus Islands for the provision of career and 
employment counseling, entrepreneurship development and business services through the 
development of training modules and curricula, provision of computer and other 
equipment and provision of training and technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of access to micro-finance to support income generating activities 
on the Focus Islands through the provision of Grants and training to CBO’s.
 
Part D
:
Community Services
1.  
Strengthening the capacity of CBO’s for planning, coordination, management of 
public assets and service provision on the Focus Islands through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Construction of multi-purpose buildings for the provision of social services and 
carrying out of developmental activities. 
 
3. 
Support to CBO’s in the design, implementation and supervision of Sub-projects 
including the provision of training on entrepreneurship, management, book keeping and 
other technical areas and the provision of Grants to support social service activities that 
are beneficial to the communities. 
 
4.  
Establishment of an internet network between key service centers on Focus 
Islands and provision of training on the use of the network so as to improve the 
coordination of service provision and encourage the sharing of information. 
 
Part E
:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Design, implementation and supervision of a monitoring and evaluation system 
for the Project so as to ensure better planning, optimum use of resources, information 
sharing and timely feedback on the implementation of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
All works may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
 
(iv) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without delay or hindrance; 
 
(v) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(vii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
Post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) 
Re-bidding shall not be ca
rried out without the Association’s 
prior concurrence; 
 
(x) 
All bidders/contractors shall, provide bid/performance security 
as indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xi) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed by the Association; 
 
(xii) 
A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xiii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and 
 
(xv) 
There shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods estimated to cost no more than $1000 per contract and 
which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract and drugs regardless of cost may be procured directly from 
UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR or WHO in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section III
.
Particu
lar Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances that meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) the first two 
contracts for goods procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding regardless 
of value; (c) each contract for works and services (other than consultancy services) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (d) the first two contracts procured 
using National Competitive Bidding procedures regardless of value; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (f) each contract for services by Individual Consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
 Project Implementation and Coordination
1.  
The Borrower shall vest in MOE the overall responsibility for coordinating the 
implementation of the Project. MOE shall operate under the oversight of the Project 
Steering Committee, and shall be supported in the carrying out of its responsibilities by 
PMC.  
 
2. 
The Line Ministries shall be responsible for implementing the Project. 
Specifically, MOE shall be responsible for carrying out Part A of the Project, and, 
together with MPND and MFT, Part E of the Project. MOH shall carry out Part B of the 
Project, MEL and MOAD shall carry out Part C of the Project and MOAD and MCST 
shall carry out Part D of the Project. 
 
3.  
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Steering Committee (formerly the 
Project Preparation and Implementation Team), which shall be composed of 
representatives of all Line Ministries and chaired by the Minister of Education. The 
Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for providing policy guidance, removing 
impediments to the timely implementation of the Project and resolving strategic 
differences between the Line Ministries. 
 
4.  
The Borrower shall maintain PMC, within MOE, with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. PMC, inter alia, shall be responsible for: (i) the 
procurement and financial management processes under the Project, including the 
maintenance of accounting records, the preparation of withdrawal applications, 
preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports and the submission of said reports to the 
Association; (ii) monitoring the Project’s implementation and the auditing of the 
Project’s accounts; and (iii) furnishing the Association with the quarterly progress reports 
referred to under paragraph D of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Project Implementation Plan 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement as well as with the Project Implementation Plan which, inter alia: (i) defines 
the respective roles and responsibilities of the Line Ministries and agencies involved in 
the implementation of the Project; (ii) sets forth the timetable of actions required to be 
carried out under the Project; (iii) sets out the criteria and procedures for identifying, 
implementing and supervising Sub-Projects; (iv) sets out the accounting, financial 
reporting and auditing arrangements under the Project, and (v) identifies the procedures 
to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
C.  
Environmental Management Plan 
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the EMP in a manner designed to ensure that 
the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards; and (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an on-going basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, the implementation of the EMP and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the EMP, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
D.  
Progress Reports and Midterm Review
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a semi-annual basis, commencing January 31, 2005, a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) on or about 
thirty-six (36) months after the effectiveness date, a report, to constitute the basis upon 
which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, no later than three (3) months after the 
submission of the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this Section, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the said report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  27
-
26
-
26
