                                                                                     38072

                                      PROJECTPAPER

                             PROPOSALTORESTRUCTURE
 THE INTEGRATEDHUMANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT[CREDITNO.39481
                          FORTHE REPUBLICOFMALDIVES

1.       This projectpaper seeks the approval ofthe Executive Directorto introduce the
following changes inthe Maldives Integrated HumanDevelopment Project (Credit No.
3948, Project IDP078523). The proposed restructuring involves changing the project
objectives so that they are measurable inline with the requirements o f IDA 14. The
proposed changes will not affect the project components nor the activities financed by the
project. We are also proposing to drop a couple o f indicators inline withthe IDA 14
guidelines not to have indicators for which it i s difficult to establish a baseline.

Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

2.       The project was originally approved on July 6,2004. The restructuring is being
proposed to make sure that the project is inline with IDA 14 guidelines.

3.       The changes also better reflect the evolving situation inthe Maldives which was
hitbythe Tsunami onDecember 26,2004. The Tsunami has set back the highlevels of
social progress and prosperity achieved inrecent years. Total damages are estimated to be
US$470 million, 62% o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP).

4.       The Tsunami changed Maldives' development paradigm and ledto an even
stronger needfor the focus islands supported by the project. They were renamed safe
islands and the Government can now speak more directly about the need to resettle
people on fewer islands which can be defendedagainst future Tsunamis and global
warming - inadditionto being a cost-effective way ofproviding social services. Butthe
Tsunami also delayed the start o fproject activities for more than a year. The project was
launched inJuly 2005 but even withthe delayed launch - activities were slow to start
becausethe limitednumber o f decision makers hadto focus on the more urgent needs o f
post-Tsunami reconstruction. The high demand for construction services also generated
pressures which the construction industry was having a difficult time meetingand
increased construction costs. The national broad-band network which was to provide a
lot o f the IT infrastructure for certain components was delayed and this had direct effect
on the labor market component.

ProposedChanges

5.       The original objective inthe development credit agreement was as follows: "the
objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the delivery of social
services andpromoting economic opportunities on Focus Islands, so as to offer viable
alternatives to Male` This i s being changed to: "the objectives of the Project are to
                       JJ.
assist the Borrower in improving the delivery of social services on Focus Islands". The
new objectives are realistic and are stated interms ofthe outcomes that are intendedto be
achieved and also the project indicators that are to be measured reflect the objectives.

6.       We are also proposing that two o fthe eight performance indicators be dropped
because it i s difficult to establish a baseline for these and thus they are not inline with the
IDA 14 guidelines. However, we planto continue monitor these indicators to allow the
Government to better supervise the project. The indicators to be dropped are citizen
report cards andreduction inwaiting time for jobs.

7.       The base-line for the CitizenReports Cards were not set upbefore the start o f
project activities due to the longdelay inhiringthe firm which was to manage the M&E
aspects. The delays were beyond the control o fthe client andthe task team and resulted
primarily from a relatively poor response initially to the requests for bids which was
published inUNDevelopment Business. Apparently, there was some reluctance on the
part o f firms to express interest inthe immediate aftermath o f the Tsunami. The notice
was repeated andthenthe process took another year to complete due to the remoteness o f
the Maldives from most centers. The baseline for job-search was also similarly affected
by the delay inrecruitingthe consultant.

Analysis of the Impactof Changeson Implementation

8.       The proposed changes will have little effect onthe project as appraised. All o fthe
activities will be implementedas appraised except one. There will be no changes on the
institutional arrangements and outputs. The financial management, disbursementand
procurement arrangements will remainas planned. The restructuring does not involve
any exceptions to Bank policies.

9.       The one activity that has beendropped will be a contributionto an UNDP
supported micro-finance program, This drop is due to an UNDP evaluationwhich found
that the program was generating little additional development benefit andthe loans could
easily be made by the commercial banks. The evaluationalso found that commercial
banks had enough resources to cover the needs which would be covered by the
microfinance program. The findings UNDP evaluationwas confirmed by the World
Bank's microfinance and financial sector specialists ina separate mission. This change
has beenalready approved by Bank management and the change does not needto be
referred to the Board.

ExpectedOutcomes

10.      The development objectives are beingchanged to better fit the IDA 14
requirements. The expected outcomes will remainunchanged anddropping the micro-
finance component will not affect the outcomes.

Benefitsand Risks

11.      The change involves the development objective to bringit inline with IDA 14
requirements. No changes are expected inthe project outcomes.

The World Bank                                                  1818 H Street N.W.         (202)477-1234
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT            Washington,D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                            USA.                        Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                         November 6,2006



              H.E.Mr.
              MinisterofFinanceandTreasury
              Ministry of Finance andTreasury
              Male
              Republic of Maldives



                                    Re:     Credit No. 3948 - MAL
                                            IntegratedHumanDevelopment Project
                                            Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement


            Excellency:

                    We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Integrated HumanDevelopment Project)
            betweenthe Republic of Maldives (the Borrower) and the International Development Association
            (the Association) dated October 4, 2004, (the Credit Agreement). We also refer to your letter
            dated                      requesting the amendment of the Credit Agreement.

                    We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has acceded
            to the above request. Accordingly, the Credit Agreement i s hereby amended as follows:

            1.      The first paragraphof Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement i s amended to read as follows:

                    "The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the delivery of
                    social services on Focus Islands.''

            2.      All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement that have not been amendedhereby
            shall remain unchangedand infull force and effect.




                                          RCA248423. Q WUI 64145  FAX (202)477-6391

                                            -2-                       Credit No. 3948 - MAL


       Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the c o n f m t i o n
onthe enclosed copy of this Letter Amendment andreturning itto the Association.


                                                 Sincerely,


                            INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION



                                           Alastair J. McKechnie
                                              Country Director
                                                 Maldives


AGREEDAND CONFIRMED:

REPUBLICOFMALDIVES


    Authorized Representative

Name:

Title:

Date:

