                              Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                  Report No: AC270
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/04/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: MALDIVES                                             Project ID: P078523
Project: Integrated Human Development Project                 Task Team Leader: Qaiser M. Khan
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 8, 2004                    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 6, 2004                                   IDA Amount ($m): 15.60
Managing Unit: Human Development Sector                       Sector: Other social services (40%); General
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)            education sector (30%); Health (20%); Sub-national
Status: Lending                                               government administration (10%)
                                                              Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Education for all
                                                              (S); Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                              procurement (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project development objective is to improve social service provision and economic opportunities in a
selected ecologically viable focus island in each of four selected atolls. The focus islands include
Eydhafushi in Baa Atoll, Naifaru in Lhaviyani Atoll, Kudahuvadhoo in Dhalu Atoll and Gan in Lamu
Atoll. These islands would become centers offering people an alternative to Male and the capital region for
access to services and eventually other economic opportunities.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proposed project would have five components. The components would aim to: (1) improve education
services; (2) improve health services; (3) improve job prospects of the poor; (4) increase community
services; and (5) establish a strong monitoring and evaluation framework. The proposed project would
have five components. The components would aim to: (1) improve education services; (2) improve health
services; (3) improve job prospects of the poor; (4) increase community services; and (5) establish a strong
monitoring and evaluation framework.

Component 1. Improve Education Services.

The component will support the following activities:

(a) enhance cost-effective access to secondary education through the implementation of a school
rationalization framework, for focus atolls, that expands and concentrates secondary schools on focus
islands;

(b) increase learning outcomes on focus islands by: (i) improving teacher capabilities and skills, (ii) raising
the quality of school leadership and administration; (iii) expanding education facilities such as IT centers,
science laboratories, multi-purpose rooms and library resource centers; and (iv) increasing the supply of
teaching material and learning resources;

(c) reduce transport constraints faced by students (particularly poor and female students) who need to
travel to focus islands to attend school by establishing community managed residential learning centers on
focus islands;

                                                         2
                                                                                                          ISDS




(d) provide a basis for objective, evidence based policy formulation by conducting a series of assessments
of student learning achievements.

Component 2. Improve Health Services.

This component will support the following activities:

(a) Nutrition Promotion programs on focus islands: These will include nutrition monitoring, nutrition
education, demonstration of nutritious foods prepared using local ingredients and supplementary feeding
using these demonstration local recipes. The nutrition promotion programs would be run by women's
groups with support from Ministry of Health (MOH) personnel who would be specially trained for this,

(b)Tele-medicine to increase capacity of facilities on focus islands: The project will support equipment and
training. A broad-band network is being developed on the focus islands to complement the national network
(see community activities below);

(c) Enhance quality of Services on focus Islands by enhancing capacity of health personnel: This would
include development of standard treatment protocols and distance learning for Ministry of Health (MOH)
staff and other health services personnel;

(d) Support Community Pharmacies: The pharmacies, run by community groups, would buy essential
drugs and sell them at a small mark-up which would cover costs plus a small surplus which can be used for
community initiatives such as supplementary feeding for the malnourished. The project would finance
initial seed capital, technical assistance and training to help set up these pharmacies.

Component 3. Improve Employment Services

This component is expected to support the following activities:

(a)      Job-Centers on Focus Islands: These would (i) enable job-seekers to improve their readiness for
the labor market, (ii) help match job-applicants to job-opportunities and (iii) provide access, for those
interested in self-employment, to micro-business support services and micro-finance programs. The job
centers would be simple one counsellor affairs located in the new multi-purpose buildings and would
provide counselling and referral services primarlily;

(b)      Income Generating Activities: The proposed project will provide additional resources to extend the
coverage of an existing Ministry of Atolls Development (MoAD) microfinance program Dhalu atoll, which
is will not be covered by the program. The program is currently jointly funded by the Government, UNDP,
and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB). The other two of atolls targeted by the project are already
serviced by the micro-finance program and the third would be covered under existing financing. The
program is run by the Atoll Development Committee which provides a third of the resources with the
remaining two thirds being financed by the Government and donors.

Component 4. Build the Capacity of Communities to Co-ordinate and Manage Community Services.

This component will support the following activities:

(a)      Island Development Committees: These existing committees would be given training and other

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


support to enable them to plan, coordinate, and manage service provision and public assets on the island;

(b) Multi-purpose buildings: These would be used for Government offices, community services such as
recreation halls and also provide a location for some business activities such as internet cafes and for profit
guest house. The internet cafés would be rented to a private sector group while the guest house would be
managed for profit by the women's committee;

(c) Capacity building programs for island cooperatives: This would help the cooperatives that manage
electricity and water services. It could also help other cooperatives and beneficiary groups;

(c) Island Development Fund: This would involve a pool of money which would be provided to non-profit
community groups and cooperatives to support activities beneficial to the community. Any profits
generated by these groups would go to support activities such as nutrition programs. The resources for
community pharmacies described earlier under health would be part of this fund. The fund will have simple
operating criteria;

(d) Broadband networks on focus islands to complement the new national network: This would allow those
on the focus islands to overcome the main obstacle to development in the Maldives i.e. scattered
population. The component would support the networks and bring the network to the door of the key
facilities such as multi-purpose building, schools and health facilities. The multi-purpose buildings would
be fully wired internally. The project would also support satellite connectivity on a sliding downward
scale.,

Component 5. Monitoring and Evaluation (see details in Annex 2)

This component will help to ensure better planning, targeting, feedback to relevant stakeholders and timely
decision making in order to improve service delivery by: will monitor project processes using the following:


(a) a well defined logical framework that constitutes clearly defined goals, objectives, outputs and activities
with corresponding indicators, means of verification and key assumptions;

(b) a well defined M&E strategy for project processes, information requirements, tools and methodologies
for data collection, analysis and reporting;

(c) comprehensive M&E plan with clear roles and responsibilities as they relate to indicators tracking with
respect to data gathering and reporting;

(d) project tracking system based upon agreed indicators as derived from the logical framework matrix of
the IHDP program;

(e) internal and External periodic assessment and evaluations which would include baseline studies,
gendered community score cards, mid-term evaluations, ex-post evaluations and impact evaluations; and

(f) participatory community monitoring and accountability approaches and systems.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

                                                        4
                                                                                                            ISDS


The project will service four focus islands which are Eydhafushi in Baa Atoll, Naifaru in Lhaviyani Atoll,
Kudahuvadhoo in Dhalu Atoll and Gan in Lamu Atoll. Considering that the Maldives is located in a fragile
ecosystem of islands, environmental protection is given high priority in the Government agenda and national
environmental laws are rigidly implemented.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: Possible environmental impacts resulting from this project are not likely to be significant and/or
irreversible. The likely impacts that can be identified at this stage are reversible and can be easily mitigated.
Considering that specific activities and exact locations cannot be identified due to the demand driven nature of
the project a specific environmental assessment cannot be undertaken at this stage. Therefore, an
Environmental Report detailing the prevailing environmental conditions in the Maldives and an Environmental
Assessment and Management Framework has been prepared. This Framework will serve as a template to
conduct activity specific environmental assessments and/or environmental management plans (EMP) prior to
implementation of sub-projects. Based on a preliminary evaluation of the potential environmental issues
arising from the project, it is concluded that the environmental impacts are not significant, therefore, it is
proposed that an Environmental Category B be assigned for this project.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                            Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Based on the activities identified for support under the project, it has been concluded that there will be no
significant or irreversible environmental and social issues arising as result of this project. The Education
Component may include construction of community managed residential learning centers, additional
classroom and associated basic facilities, community houses for students from primary islands and related
civil works. Construction in fragile ecosystems in the Maldives necessitates close attention to be paid to
environmental impacts of construction. In addition to addressing the problems associated with construction
debris disposal, proper attention needs to be paid to the infrastructure for environmentally acceptable
management of garbage and sewage generated from the construction activities financed under the project.

                                                        5
                                                                                                             ISDS


The capacity of the present infrastructure in the focus islands to accept the additional wastes has been
assessed and found to be adequate for solid waste disposal, but new septic tanks and sewage disposal
systems may be needed in some focus islands. The Health component of the project proposes to improve
the quality of health services of the focus islands. An integral aspect of improving the health services is to
ensure that health care waste is managed in an acceptable manner as well. An assessment of the current
health care waste management systems in the focus islands has been conducted and it has been found that,
if segregation of infectious health care waste is undertaken, then the waste management problem is reduced
significantly due to the small quantities generated. Proper disposal of the infectious health care waste is
essential. Since there is no health care waste management plan in the Maldives at present, the project will
assist the Ministry of Home Affairs and Environment (MHAE) to prepare a National Health Care Waste
Management Policy and to prepare National Guidelines for Health Care Waste Management. The
economic growth through market based employment generation initiatives on focus islands component will
support entrepreneurialism, promote small businesses and foment economic growth on focus islands. Due
to the demand driven nature of the project, sub-projects that will be financed under this component is not
identified. Therefore, potential environmental impacts cannot be identified, although typical activities
supported under similar components have shown that no serious environmental issues arise. Therefore, an
Environmental Assessment and Management Framework has been developed to serve as a template to
undertake sub-project specific environmental analysis prior to sub-projects being funded. This is
applicable to all components under the project. The capacity building for coordinating and managing
community services component proposes to increase effectiveness with which resources are used in focus
islands through community leadership and management. Of the sub-components to be financed under this
component, potential environmental issues may arise from possible construction of multi-purpose buildings
and community management of water and electricity services. Construction related environmental impacts
will be similar to those that may arise from the education component, such as proper disposal of
construction debris, garbage and sewage. This issue will be addressed in a manner similar to the education
component. The operation of water supply and electricity services results in environmental pollutants that
need to be managed to minimize emissions to the environment. Environmental Management Plans will be
prepared for the utilities and the community organizations managing these infrastructure services will be
provided with the requisite training so that adverse environmental impacts from the operation of the water
and electricity services in focus islands will be minimal. The issues identified above are potential
environmental issues that may arise during implementation of the project.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
At this stage, the main safeguard policy applicable is the Environmental Assessment Safeguard Policy.
The Natural Habitats and the Cultural Property policies have been triggered as a precautionary measure so
that due attention is paid to issues related to natural habitats and cultural property during site identification
for civil works to be supported under the project. Site selection criteria has been designed to eliminate sites
that may trigger the natural habitats or cultural property safeguard policies. Considering the type of
potential environmental issues identified above, it is unlikely that there will be cumulative impacts even if
more than one safeguard policy is triggered. The project components are discrete and it is not anticipated
that any irreversible or significant environmental impacts will result due to multiple project components.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Based on the nature of the activities to be financed under the project and available development plans in the
focus islands, there are no potential long term environmental or social impacts anticipated.


II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

                                                         6
                                                                                                           ISDS


The Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (EMF) has detailed the requisite analysis of
alternatives to ensure that the most suitable option is selected. Since construction related environmental
impacts are the most likely adverse environmental impacts that may arise as a result of project activities,
detailed criteria on site selection has been listed in the EMF. The activity specific EA or EMP that will be
conducted prior to commencement of specific activities will include a proper treatment of alternatives as
specified in the EMF.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Republic of Maldives has very strict environmental laws which are enforced strictly as the country's
economy is dependent on tourism which is directly tied to the country's pristine ecology. Considering the
demand driven nature of the project, exact locations for project activities as well as some of the activities
itself cannot be identified until implementation. The EMF specifies the exact process that needs to be
followed to undertake activity specific EAs and/or EMPs as the case may be. The EMF includes an
environmental screening mechanism so that any activities that are likely to have significant and/or
irreversible environmental and social impacts will be ineligible for funding. It has been agreed with the
Government that the project will not finance any activities that will include resettlement and any activity
located in an environmentally sensitive site, as defined in the EMF. Standard Environment Codes of
Practice have been listed out in the EMF for the following: (i) site selection for construction of new
facilities; (ii) health care waste management; (iii) construction waste management; and (iv) solid waste
management and sewage treatment and disposal. On site treatment and disposal (within the focus island) is
envisaged for solid waste management, sewage treatment and construction debris disposal.

Institutionally, MHAE is the agency with statutory responsibilities for environmental management.
Therefore, the EA process will be supervised by MHAE while implementation will be the responsibility of
the respective sectoral line ministries or agencies, NGO's, CBO's as well as the Atoll Offices and Island
Offices of the four focus islands. Considering the nature and complexity of the EA/EMPs that will be
conducted under the project, MHAE has adequate technical capacity to provide the requisite oversight.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During the preparation of the EMF, public consultations were held with stakeholders. Stakeholders
included MHAE, other ministry and agency staff, community groups in focus islands and NGOs. In
addition to consultation on the EMF, all activity specific EA/EMPs will be subject to public consultation
and disclosure, prior to disbursement of project funds.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
           management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
           technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
           projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
           issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

                                                      7
                                                                                                    ISDS



Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              11/30/2003      3/15/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          10/15/2003      3/15/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           12/1/2003       3/31/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Qaiser M. Khan                                     4/28/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Sumith Pilapitiya                                  4/28/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Frederick Edmund Brusberg                               4/30/2004
Sector Manager/Director               Mansoora Rashid                                    4/30/2004

