                                      Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                       Report No: AB54

Project Name                          MALDIVES - Integrated Human Development Project
Region                                South Asia Regional Office
Sector                                Other social services (40%); General education sector (30%); Health (20%);
                                      Sub-national government administration (10%)
Theme                                 Social risk reduction (P); Education for all (S); Public expenditure, financial
                                      management and procurement (S)
Project                               P078523
Borrower(s)                           GOVERNMENT OF MALDIVES
Implementing Agency(ies)              MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                      Address: Ameenee Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives
                                      Contact Person: Riluwan Shareef
                                      Tel: 960-31-7586        Fax: 960-32-4432           Email:
                                      rshareef@finance.gov.mv
Environment Category                  B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                     May 4, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                   April 8, 2004
Bank Approval Date                    July 6, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
The Maldives is a chain of Indian Ocean islands spread over a distance of 900 kilometers, and located
between northern latitude 4 to slightly south of the equator. The land area, which covers about 26
geographic atolls, is grouped into 20 administrative atolls. The population of the Maldives is about
300,000. The country faces two main geographic challenges: (a) the absence of a significant land mass,
which has resulted in a highly dispersed population, and (b) the low altitude of the existing islands. The
country has 1,190 islands, of which 198 are inhabited. Of these islands, only 33 have a land area greater
than one square kilometer. One third of the inhabited islands have a population of less than 500 and 70% of
the inhabited islands have a population of less than 1,000. This extremely low population density makes the
Maldives unique, even among small island archipelagic states. It also raises the cost of delivering social
services and of public administration, as there is hardly any scope to generate economies of scale. The
altitude of most of the islands in the Maldives is very low, just above sea level. As a result, rising sea levels
cause many islands to disappear and new ones to appear. This has rendered some inhabited islands
ecologically vulnerable, while other islands have become too densely populated to sustain their
communities. The greater Male' area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter of the population,
is of specific concern, with increasing strain on social and public services caused by continuing
in-migration from other parts of the archipelago.

         This unique geography and vulnerability poses two key development challenges for the country.
First, the dispersion of the population across the archipelago raises the cost of delivering social services to
the population, as it is difficult to realize economies of scale in service provision. Second, some inhabited
islands have become ecologically vulnerable, while other islands have become too densely populated. The
greater Male' area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter of the population, is of specific
concern. The continuing immigration to Male' from other parts of archipelago in response to ecological
vulnerability in the outer atolls and better job opportunities and higher quality of social and public services
in the Male' region has severely increased population pressure in the region. Addressing these challenges is
an important thrust of the Government's poverty and development strategy described below.

                                                        2
                                                                                                            PID




Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy

         The Maldives has enjoyed rapid economic growth over the past 25 years or so, based on the highly
successful development of a tourism industry aimed at the upper-end of the global tourism market, a
prosperous fishing industry and an expanding service sector. GDP growth in the past two decades has
averaged over 9 percent per year, resulting in a tripling of per capita income since 1980 to US$2,280 in
2002. The literacy rate among females aged 15 and above has reached 97 percent and the net primary
school enrolment rate has risen rapidly, from 38 percent to 93 percent, over the last three decades. The
health status of the population has also improved considerably. The average life expectancy at birth
increased from 50 years in 1970 to 69 years in 2002.

         The Government has also invested in improving its human capital base by providing universal
access to primary education and basic health care on each inhabited island. The infant mortality rate
declined from 159 per thousand live births in 1970 to 55 per thousand live births in 2002. The crude death
rate fell from a high 38 per thousand to 4 over the same period. Finally, the population growth rate declined
from over 3 percent around 1990 to 1.9 percent in 2002, reflecting decreases in fertility that can be
attributed, to a considerable extent, to the improved education status of women.

         Economic growth and improvements in human development indicators have substantially reduced
income and non-income dimensions of poverty in the Maldives. Destitution and extreme hunger are rare
phenomena in Maldives, and it is entirely plausible that Maldives will meet most if not all of the MDG
targets, with child malnutrition the only MDG target which is still a problem. While the Maldives does not
yet have an official or widely accepted poverty line, preliminary analysis based on the Household and
Income Survey (HIES 2002/03) and using a range of plausible poverty lines suggests that poverty is
substantially higher in the outer atolls than in Male', irrespective of the poverty line chosen. Preliminary
analysis also suggests that headcount poverty declined sharply between 1997/98 and 2002/03. Most income
poverty is concentrated in the outer atolls, especially in the more remote islands. Non-income dimensions of
poverty and deprivation, such as health, nutrition, education and access to local government services, also
consistently reveal worse conditions in the atolls in comparison to the capital Male' region.

         The government has developed a two pronged strategy to distribute the benefits of economic
growth to all parts of the country. The first element of the strategy is to develop two regional centers, one in
Addu Atoll in the far south and the second in Haa Dhalu Atoll in the far north. These centers are designed
to have airports, good ports and other social and infrastructure facilities. The regional centers are to be
complemented by focus islands on different atolls to act as atoll service hubs and growth centers. The
government is also seeking to distribute the benefits of tourism to all atolls by allowing new resorts to be
opened in the atolls which currently lack resorts. The opening of the new international airport and
international port in Addu Atoll will bring tourism and other economic within reach of the more isolated
southern atolls. The government expects these developments to reduce regional differentials and promote
growth and employment opportunities outside of Male. The government also plans to address poverty
among the most vulnerable groups, who may not be able to benefit from the growth strategy, by developing
special targeted income support programs. To achieve this objective, the Government is considering
commencing a universal non-contributory old age pension scheme and expanding targeted safety nets for
the non-elderly poor. The government has requested World Bank technical support to develop these new
programs.

                                                         3
                                                                                                            PID



3. Major Sector Issues

          The success of the Maldives in achieving basic levels of social development, such as near universal
primary school enrolment, reduced infant mortality and higher life expectancy, has created a set of second
generation challenges in the provision of social services.

Education Services.        The fragmented student population, scattered over 198 small islands, now requires
secondary schools to continue their education beyond the primary grades. Currently, a high proportion of
secondary school enrolment is in Male', while students in outer atolls are forced to complete their education
at the end of the primary cycle at grade 7. This leads to high regional disparities in education, with gross
enrolment in Male' at about 131% and in the outer atolls only 53%. The government of Maldives has
adopted a policy that all children in the age group 6-16 should be entitled to 10 years of public education.
However, establishing a secondary school network on all inhabited islands would be prohibitively
expensive, requiring massive investment in school infrastructure, and high recurrent expenditures with an
implied student-teacher ratio of about 5:1 if all inhabited islands were to contain secondary schools. The
Government strategy is to concentrate focus secondary education in focus islands ...

          In addition, policy makers consider the quality of secondary education in the outer atolls to be
unsatisfactory. For instance, the pass rates at the GCE O/L and GCE A/L are considerably higher for
students in Male' than for students in the outer atolls. Teacher deployment is a problem for schools in
remote islands, and the government is forced to recruit expensive expatriate teachers for secondary schools
in the outer atolls. Maldivian teachers in these atolls, even at the primary level, also tend to be poorly
trained. In addition, principals and section heads, such as headmasters and headmistresses, have few
opportunities to receive in-service training. The availability of teaching material and learning resources,
too, is limited in schools in the outer atolls. The Ggovernment strategy is to enhance quality through
initiatives such as professional development of academic and administrative staff in the outer atolls and
greater investment in teaching material and learning resources.

          Due to the geography of the Maldives students seeking secondary education often have to travel to
other islands, including Male', to attend secondary schools. According to the recently completed beneficiary
assessment, female students attending school away from home tend to be obliged to carry out domestic
chores within host households, which reduces their time for academic study. This deters many girls from
enrolling in secondary schools away from their home islands. In addition, success rates for girls are lower
than for boys in the GCE O-level examinations in the outer atolls. Pass rates for girls at the O-level exams
are about 18% below those of boys. The poor test results for girls relative to boys run contrary to the usual
pattern experienced in most other countries and even in Male', where girls perform better. This emphasizes
the need to address the constraints faced by girls studying outside their home islands. In addition, students
from poor families are at a disadvantage in accessing education opportunities outside their home islands
due to cost constraints. The Government strategy is to establish residential learning centers on the focus
islands to enable students from primary islands to live on the focus islands and attend secondary school.

          Health and Nutrition Services. The rapid expansion of the Maldivian population over the past 25
years, combined with higher life expectancy, has created a need for regional health services to combat a
range of non-communicable and degenerative diseases. Past investments have created a basic health
network, across the atolls, capable of dealing with basic communicable diseases. However, establishing
advanced health services on all islands is prohibitively expensive, given the small populations on the large
majority of islands. Currently, Maldivians are forced to travel to Male or even South India or Sri Lanka to
receive tertiary level health care.

                                                        4
                                                                                                             PID




          Upgrading a regional health center on each atoll to offer diagnosis and treatment for
non-communicable and degenerative diseases provides a rational strategy to improve the quality of health
care available on the atolls. A key constraint to the development of such regional health centers is the
difficulty of providing off-site training to health personnel on a regular basis, because the small quantity of
health staff members at each center precludes the release of staff from the island for long periods. The
Government proposes to use telemedicine expand the range of health services available in atoll health
centers cost-effectively. Similarly, training programs based on distance learning methodologies will be used
to upgrade the skills and knowledge of medical personnel while they remain on the islands.

          The extensive use of foreign health personnel on the outer atolls causes variations in treatment,
including the use of medicines and drugs. Maldivian health ministry staff believe that it is important to
develop standard treatment protocols for non-communicable diseases (these already exist for communicable
diseases) to reduce regional imbalances in the quality of care offered. The Government proposes to develop
standard treatment protocols for non-communicable diseases.

          There are also sporadic shortages of essential drugs on the atolls, and even focus islands, as private
pharmacies tend to stock medicines which are more profitable in preference to essential drugs. Some island
development committees have expressed interest in community pharmacies to address this problem, and the
Government proposes to assist communities to establish pharmacies to sell essential drugs on the outer
atolls.

          Despite its high level of per capita income and relatively good health infrastructure, the Maldives
suffers from unexpectedly high rates of malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies as well as a disease
burden caused by perinatal mortality, and a slow decline in maternal mortality. According to the 2001
Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2001), over 30% of children under 5 are two standard deviations
below their expected weight for age. The rates are also high using height for age and weight for height as
the indicator. Malnutrition (weight for age) rises sharply after the first twelve months, likely because of
inadequate weaning practices and foods. These problems can usually be addressed through nutrition
education. According to MICS 2001, Vitiamin A deficiencies are quite high and this deficiency can have a
major on vision and survival. Similarly Iron deficiencies among women are high with MICS 2001 finding
that 51% of women have some form of anemia. The anemia rate is higher among pregnant women (56%).
Iodine deficiency which can slow mental development and cause miscarriages is also high. Over 20% of
school children were found to have iodine deficiency. Globally, this has been addressed by salt iodization,
but though iodized salt is available in the Maldives, the MICS 2001 survey found that only 44%
households actually used iodized salt. The Government proposes to implement a nutrition education and
awareness creation program to improve dietary habits and food preparation patterns.

          The high perinatal mortality and slow decline in maternal mortality is largely the result of poor
access of woemn to skilled birth attendants. Currently more than a third (36%) of the deliveries are still
conducted by untrained birth attendants. Global experience suggests that improving "skilled attendance" is
critical to reduce maternal and perinatal deaths. In geographic conditions that limit access to obstetric
services, the concept of "maternity waiting homes" has been successfully used. Some of the inputs planned
under other components of the project could be effectively used to improve access for skilled care during
delivery. For example, the Government is considering transporting women residing in islands without
skilled delivery care services to the focus island a fortnight before their expected date of delivery and stay
at the "multi-purpose building" until delivery. This opportunity can be used to educate women in child
caring practices with stronger emphasis on exclusive breast feeding, including demonstrations for weaning
foods.

                                                        5
                                                                                                              PID




         A beneficiary impact assessment carried out during the summer of 2003 on two of the focus
 islands and their associated primary islands, in the Baa Atoll in the north and Lamu Atoll in the south,
 found that health care services in the primary islands were perceived to be significantly worse than those
 found on focus islands. However, with the exception of very serious cases, the high cost of transport
 forced households to use the poorer quality health services on primary islands. This problem is
 compounded by infrequent transportservices. In emergencies, people have to rent boats which are even
 more expensive. The transport issue was cited as a major constraint to accessing health care by 89% of
 those interviewed on primary islands in Baa Atoll and by 79% in Lamu Atoll. The focus island residents
 reported that they had access to all health services on their own islands and were generally satisfied. The
 Government strategy to address this problem is to provide facilities on focus islands for patents from
 primary islands to reside during the period they need treatment.

         Employment Services. The Maldives is beginning to face a problem of youth unemployment as a
 result of working age population expansion and rising education levels. The country's unique geography
 and population distribution places sharp constraints on worker mobility. According to the poverty and
 vulnerability survey in 1998, the unemployment rate for the whole country was 10% (22% for females).
 The unemployment rate in Make was 6% (27% for females) and in the four focus atolls the unemployment
 rate was 13% (28% for female). The new survey this year will update the results but all indications are
 that there the large differentials between Male and the Atolls are likely to persist. On the labor demand
 side, job-growth is concentrated in service jobs in the hotel / tourism sector mainly in the central region
 around Male. Thus, employment opportunities in the outer atolls for young educated people (outside of
 traditional fisheries sector) are limited. School leavers in the outer atolls might be willing to accept jobs in
 the Male' region, but have limited information about these jobs. High transport costs also restrict the
 ability of people to earch for jobs. As a result, most new jobs in the service sector use foreign labor. On
 the supply side, the skills mismatch between graduates in outer islands and service sector jobs
 requirements may also contribute to high unemployment levels..

         The Government plans to strengthen measures to improve the flow of information about labor
market opportunities within the Maldives to reduce job search periods for young people and match job
seekers with potential employers. As noted above, the Government also proposes to address the skills
mismatch by improving the access and quality of secondary school education in outer atolls. Finally, the
Government plans to spread the benefits of growth to the outer atolls by facilitating the development of
resorts in these regions. The evidence from atolls with resorts suggests that not only do they create jobs
directly but they also enhance the scope for self-employment and income generating activities on
neighboring islands -and contribute to poverty reduction - by increasing the demand for local handicrafts
and souvenirs. a positive impact on poverty reduction through employment creation on neighboring islands.
In particular, women who are not allowed to work on resorts due to cultural factors benefit as income
generating activities are developed in their home islands in the neighborhoods of resorts.

         Community Services. Community organizations traditionally play an important role in the life of
the Maldives, a country of many small, island communities. Most of the public or collective services
available on distant islands are provided by community groups. The demand for good quality local
government services, such as public administration, law courts, police, water, electricity, posts and
communications have been rising with population expansion, higher incomes and improved education.
Supplying such facilities an d services to each inhabited island is prohibitively expensive, given the small
population sizes on the islands.

         To address this issue, the government plans to develop focus islands to serve as local government

                                                       6
                                                                                                           PID


hubs for the atolls. In addition, the government desires to promote community participation in the delivery
of public services to empower atoll communities, and increase accountability and ownership of of the
communities in delivering services. Further, wherever possible, the government plans to concentrate the
delivery of local public services in one location, to improve access and convenience of use, and increase the
efficiency of land utilization on space scarce focus islands.

         The development of a national broad band network to provide access to internet based public
services within atolls is also an important element of the government's strategy to improve the coverage and
quality of local government. Currently, the cost of intra-atoll and inter-atoll communication and
information transmission is severely constrained by the high cost of telecommunications and the absence of
adequate transmission capacity. The Government strategy is to develop a broad band network would enable
focus island hubs to supply services to the primary islands within their atolls more cheaply and effectively.
In addition, a broad band network would facilitate inter-atoll communications by substantially reducing
costs and increasing the volume of information that can be transmitted.

     High Public Expenditure Burden. As noted above, the provision of social services in the Maldives
special challenges given the dispersion of its population. The country's public expenditure, in line with
other small island economies with dispersed populations, is high at 40% of GDP. Consequently, public
expenditure management poses a major challenge to the Government. The Government's previous strategy
to widen access to services across the archipelago consisted of creating facilities and providing services on
all islands, including those with small populations. In the education and health sectors, this approach has
led to the establishment of a primary school and a primary health post on each inhabited island.
Establishing and maintaining secondary schools and more advanced health facilities on each island would
be extremely expensive. In addition, public expenditure of 40% of national income current supports a basic
level of local government services to atolls, with advanced services concentrated only in the central Male'
region. Widening access to high quality local government services to the atolls is also likely to be extremely
costly. Hence, the government needs to maximize cost effectiveness in developing strategies to improve
access and develop the quality of education, health care and local government services in the outer atolls.

2. Objectives
The development objectives of this project are to: (i) improve social outcomes and promote
economic growth by strengthening the delivery of social services (education, health and nutrition
services) available to the population; (ii) reduce poverty and promote regional equity by
strengthening social service delivery and increasing economic opportunities in atolls remote from
the prosperous Male region; and (iii) promote ecologically sustainable development by
concentrating services and populations on ecologically viable islands within these atolls. The
Government of Maldives (GOM) has selected 10 ecologically viable but poor islands, remote
from the Male region, to pilot its strategy to achieve the above objectives. These islands possess
the potential to develop into alternative regional economic and social centers to the capital Male,
acting as hubs for the delivery of social services, public administration and local government.. The
project will assist the Government on four islands, Eydhafushi in Baa Atoll, Naifaru in Lhaviyani
Atoll, Kudahuvadhoo in Dhalu Atoll and Gan in Lamu Atoll, to serve as pilots of the
government's strategy. These atolls, Baa and Dhalu located north of Male' and Lhaviyani and
Lamu located south of Male', are among the more underdeveloped regions of the country.

                                                        7
                                                                                                             PID


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank's support in the implementation of this project will bring together the unique
combination of the Bank's macroeconomic and global expertise, and its international experience in
different sectors. The Bank's financial support will help the GOM in moving forward to
implement its innovative project at its most critical, or initial pilot, stage. The World Bank's role
goes beyond mere financing. The Bank will also technically support the implementation of this
national strategy. Once tested and successful, the development strategy could become a central
element of the future economic and social development policy framework of the Maldives.

4. Description
The project has four components that focus on strengthening delivery of (1) education services; (2) health
services; (3) employment services; (4) community services. These components will be supported by
strengthening monitoring and evaluation.

Component 1. Strengthen Education Service Delivery. This project component will support the
following activities: (a) enhancing cost-effective access to secondary education through (i) the
implementation of a school rationalization framework for focus atolls that expands and concentrates
secondary schools on focus islands (ii) reduce transport constraints faced by students (particularly poor and
female students) who need to travel to focus islands to attend school, by establishing community-managed
residential learning centers on focus islands; (b) improve the quality of education on focus islands by: (i)
improving the capabilities and skills of teachers, including for multi-grade teaching where necessary, (ii)
raising the quality of school leadership and administration on the part of principals, headmasters, and
headmistresses, (iii) expanding education facilities such as IT centers, science laboratories, multi-purpose
rooms, library and teacher resource centers, and (iv) increasing the supply of teaching material and learning
resources; and (c) conduct a series of assessments of student learning achievements to provide a basis for
objective, evidence-based policy formulation.

Component 2. Strengthen Health Service Delivery. The project component will support the following
activities: (a) rationalizing care for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) by: (i) establishing standard
treatment protocols for risk factor management, (ii) setting standard operating procedures, (iii) improving
access to specialist services for focus island residents through telemedicine, and (iv) improving access to
essential medicines at low cost by supporting community pharmacies, and (v) training staff in using the
protocols and monitoring their use; (b) enhancing support for nutrition promotion to address the widespread
problem of childhood malnutrition through: (i) communication of strategic behavioral changes, (ii)
improved nutrition surveillance, and (iii) greater use of locally relevant complementary foods. The key
issue of intra-atoll transport, which inhibits use of existing health facilities on focus islands, is best
addressed through a national transport sector program which is currently being prepared by the
government.

Component 3. Strengthen Employment Services. This project component will enhance employment
prospects of individuals, particularly those residing in remote atolls by (a) supporting cost effective job
information and job counseling services through (i) a national jobs information network, (ii) establishing
job centers on focus islands, (iii) career and employment counseling through job centers and (iv) business
centers to facilitate business development; and (b) expanding existing mircrofinance programs to all of the
focus islands. The counselors in the job centers will help link individuals, as needed, to a national skills
development program which is run by the Ministry of Labor and financed by the Asian Development Bank,
and an externally-funded micro-finance program operated by the Atoll Development Committees. The
linkage to these services will allow individuals to access income opportunities in remote atolls. By

                                                        8
                                                                                                           PID


connecting individuals to market based employment generating initiatives, the component will help improve
economic growth on focus islands, and thereby increase the likelihood of migration from other islands. The
resulting higher population density will enable the realization of economies of scale, and hence the
establishment of new economic activities or sectors on focus islands.

Component 4. Strengthen Community Services. The project will improve service delivery by
strengthening community services, i.e. public administration and local government, on focus islands. The
project will strengthen and improve community groups by providing: (a) leadership and management skills
training to community based organizations; (b) financial support to community groups, through a
community development fund and cooperatives offering community-wide services; (c) support to the
development of multi-purpose buildings to consolidate the provision of services; and (d) the development
of broadband networks on each focus island. The capacity strengthening of community groups and the
provision of necessary infrastructure and broad band networks will enable the communities on focus
islands to manage services effectively and efficiently. The unification of community services into single
multi-purpose buildings will consolidate island public services and avoid duplicating investment in land
constrained communities.

Project Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (see Annex 11). The project's monitoring and
evaluation strategy is based on three sets of activities:

         i.      a computerized project MIS;
         ii.     studies, surveys and evaluations; and
         iii.    participatory monitoring and evaluation.

Project MIS. A computerized project Management Information System (PMIS) will be established to assist
the PMU and other implementing agencies to: (i) prepare annual work plans and budgets, (ii) monitor
actual physical implementation, (iii) track project expenditures, and (iv) facilitate regular progress
reporting. A financial management system will address some of these requirements, and other requisite data
will be available in relevant government ministries.

Baseline Study. Baseline data will be collected and compiled during the first year of the project.
Construction of requisite infrastructure and provision of services in several components will only start in
the second or third year of the project. This presents the project with a window of opportunity to utilize
national survey instruments such as the Poverty Vulnerability (VPA) Survey 2004, Census 2005,
Household Income & Expenditure Survey (HIES 2003), the Multiple Indictor Cluster Survey (MICS 2001
and 2006) in the generation of baseline data and subsequent monitoring and evaluation efforts.
Subsequently, the project will conduct regular surveys and studies to provide information on
implementation performance and the anticipated achievement of development objectives.

Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation. A participatory approach with qualitative indicators
to promote accountability of service providers has been used in other countries to improve
provision of basic social services. This approach will be used in this project to promote a working
partnership between service providers and beneficiaries. The responsible agency and methodology
for implementing citizen report cards and community score cards is discussed, detailed and
finalized, under the rubric of the project's broader monitoring and evaluation (M&E) strategy.
Information from the scorecards will feed into the overall monitoring and evaluation framework
of the project.

                                                         9
                                                                                                            PID


Strengthen Project Management: This component will support training and technical
assistance to the existing to improve its functioning. It also includes the cost of activities such as
civil works and environmental consultancies which are not sector specific.
Strengthen Education Services Delivery
Strengthen Health Services Delivery
Strengthen Employment Services
Strengthen Community Services
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthen Project Management

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($2.00)
IDA ($15.60)
Total Project Cost: $17.60

6. Implementation
          Due to the multi-sector nature of the project, arrangements have been made to ensure inter-agency
coordination during project implementation. Although implementation will be mainly the responsibility of
the line ministries, a high-level inter-ministerial committee has been established to provide policy guidance
and resolve strategic differences between ministries. At the atoll and focus island level, the Atoll Chief and
the Island Chief will play a key role in coordinating development and working across agencies.

          Project components will be managed as follows:

a.        The Ministry of Education will be responsible for the strengthening education services component.

b.        The Ministry of Health will be responsible for the strengthening health services component, with
the following exceptions. The community pharmacies will be operated by community groups (CBOs), after
initial training provided by the MOH. The nutrition monitoring programs will also be managed by CBOs,
with extensive technical support from MOH personnel.

c.        The Ministry of Employment and Labor (MEL) will be responsible for job centers. Community
groups will run the income generation activity, with support from the Ministry of Atoll Development
(MOAD) who operate these programs nationwide.

d.        The Ministry of Atoll Development (MOAD) will be responsible for capacity building activities of
the community services component, except for broadband networks on focus islands, which will be
implemented by the Ministry of Communications, Science and Technology (MCST). The MCST
implements the overall, national broadband network.

e.        The Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MFT) will manage the monitoring and evaluation system,
with support from Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND) and the Project Management
Unit PMU.

          The existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Third Education Project, which is being
re-structured as a Project Management Unit (PMU) to emphasize its new role as a facilitator rather than an
implementing agency, is expected to manage the procurement and disbursement activities. This unit reports
directly to the Minister of Education, but has acquired considerable experience working with different

                                                        10
                                                                                                           PID


ministries through the implementation of the Third Education and Training Project (TETP), which spanned
several ministries. The PMU is financed by the Government. It also manages procurement and
disbursement for other World Bank projects and other donor projects.

Project Implementation Plan (PIP). This has been prepared with a special focus on clarifying the system
of multi-ministry execution. The PIP clearly lays out the tasks and responsibilities of each Ministry and
unit, and sets up a system to determine priorities.

Financial Management. Bank funds would be paid out directly to the suppliers from a SA established at
the Maldivian Monetary Authority (MMA). The PMU will prepare the documentation, get the necessary
clearances and submit payment orders to the MMA. Reimbursement of the SA will be done by the MOF.
The FMRs and the Withdrawal Application will be prepared by the PMU and submitted to the MOF. The
MOF in turn will submit documents to the Bank for reimbursement of the SA. The local contribution will
be paid by the MMA from a local account, based on documentation prepared by the PMU and cleared by
the MOE. In order to ensure that adequate local contributions are available for the first year of operation,
the Borrower will deposit $50,000 in a local account, on a date to be agreed during Negotiations.

7. Sustainability
The project, which aims to consolidate public services provision in selected focus islands, is more
sustainable than the current approach of providing all services on almost all islands. By creating
regional growth poles, the economy may deepen and create more tax revenues to finance services.
It should also be noted that, despite the country's overall very low population density, some
islands have become overcrowded and unsustainable. In fact, one island has over 5,000 people on
ten hectares. It is therefore crucial to establish places that are attractive enough to encourage
voluntary migration.

The long term fiscall sustainability of most of the project is assured by the following: (a) the
costs of secondary education would rise even higher without the focus island program; (b) the
health interventions have a negligible recurrent cost impact; (c) the employment services program
has a minor recurrent cost impact; and (d) the community services are financially self-sustaining.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Two lessons from World Bank experience globally and on small island economies have been built into the
project. Specifically the project will:

(a) strengthen local coordination and management of services. Experience in island economies shows that
the most effective way to improve quality of services is to build on island solidarity and develop ownership
and accountability at the community level. For technically complicated services which the beneficiaries
cannot lead, such as health and education, they should be given a chance to provide continuous feedback to
service providers through appropriate feedback mechanisms (which have been included under the M&E
framework for this project).

(b) reduce overhead and unit costs of providing services to scattered populations by use of ICT and also by
consolidating higher level services (e.g. secondary schools and tertiary health care) on a single island in
each atoll.

(c) Previous experience in the Maldives has shown that providing direct fiscal incentives for individuals to
move from island to island are too costly and likely to be unsustainable. Rather than move among the outer
atolls, people looking for better services or jobs outside their own islands; go to Malé to find employment

                                                        11
                                                                                                              PID


opportunities and better quality social services. Hence, a better strategy is to create attractive alternatives in
what? to Malé in the outer atolls.

(e) The experience gained from the slow execution of the Third Education and Training Project due to lack
of coordination between ministries has been reflected in the proposed implementation design. A high
powered inter-ministerial committee has been set up to guide the project and facilitate solutions which are
beyond a single Ministry. The ministerial tier of this structure will meet when policy decisions are
necessary, and the directoral tier will meet when operational issues arise.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : In accordance with the Maldives' policy to protect its environmental resources and the
project's development objective to improve social service provision and economic opportunities in a
selected ecologically viable focus island in each of four identified atolls, any environmental issues that may
arise from project activities will be addressed in a comprehensive manner during implementation. Possible
environmental impacts resulting from this project are not likely to be significant and/or irreversible. The
likely impacts that can be identified at this stage are reversible and can be easily mitigated.   Considering
that specific activities and exact locations cannot be identified due to the demand driven nature of the
project a specific environmental assessment cannot be undertaken at this stage. Therefore, an
Environmental Report detailing the prevailing environmental conditions in the Maldives and an
Environmental Assessment and Management Framework (the Framework) has been prepared. This
Framework will serve as a template to conduct activity specific environmental assessments and/or
environmental management plans (EMP) prior to implementation of sub-projects. Public consultations
were held during the preparation of the Framework. There will be no land acquisition or resettlement under
this project. All land identified for potential construction work is unencumbered state owned land.

The Education Services Delivery Component may include construction associated with expanding
educational facilities such as IT centers, science labs, multipurpose rooms, library resource centers and
residential learning centers on the focus islands. Construction in fragile ecosystems as in the Maldives
demands close attention to the potential environmental impacts. In this regard, proper site selection for
construction activities is essential. The Framework stipulates site selection criteria that ensures that
environmentally sensitive sites will be not be eligible for funding under the project. The Framework also
describes how construction material, debris disposal, sewage and solid waste arising from civil works
proposed under the project should be addressed through sub-project specific EMPs.

The Health Services Delivery Component of the project proposes to improve the quality of health
services of the focus islands by nutrient promotion, community operated pharmacies, training of health
service personnel, accessing telemedicine and development and implementation of standard treatment
protocols. An integral aspect of improving health care services is to ensure proper systems are in place to
manage health care waste in an environmentally acceptable manner. As there is no proper health care
waste management in the Maldives at the present time, the project will assist the Ministry of Home Affairs
and Environment (MHAE) to develop a National Health Care Waste Management Policy and Guidelines
that can be implemented at the hospital level.

The Employment Services Component will support entrepreneurialism, promote small businesses and
foment economic growth on the focus islands. Considering the demand driven nature of this component,
sub-projects to be financed under this component are not yet defined. The Framework has outlined a
procedure to be followed to identify sub-project specific environmental impacts and developed guidelines
for preparation of EMPs to mitigate any potential environmental issues, prior to any fund disbursements.
Considering that the magnitude of these projects are very small, it is not anticipated that there will be any

                                                        12
                                                                                                        PID


significant environmental issues that will arise from this component.

The Community Services Component proposes to increase the effectiveness with which resources are
used in focus islands through community leadership and management. Potential environmental issues may
arise if communities plan to manage sanitation systems, solid waste management, water supply systems and
public transport systems, unless proper capacity exists within the community organizations. Since these
are small scale community based systems, it is most unlikely that there will be any significant and/or
irreversible environmental impacts. Community organizations will be provided with training programs to
increase environmental awareness and how to effectively manage community services with minimal adverse
environmental impacts. The Framework already prepared has guidelines on how sub-activity specific
EMPs should be prepared, as well as already prepared environmental codes of practice for such community
services. As has been the practice, MHAE will assist communities with addressing potential environmental
issues either directly or through the Atoll Offices, if required.



10. List of factual technical documents:

Beneficiary impact assessment with gender dimension

Consultant reports:
1.       Telemedicine
2,       Employment-Generation Component: Job-Centers as part of a National Job-Information Network
3.       Residential community learning centers on Focus Islands
4.       Education Quality Study
5.       Environmental report and management plan
6.       Nutrition
7.       Capacity building for coordinating and managing community services

11. Contact Point:

      Task Manager
      Qaiser M. Khan
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: 202-473-2523
       Fax: 202-522-3408

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

13
      PID

