                                                                                                OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                         IDA/R2004-0168/1

                                                                                                                   June 16, 2004




                                                                                     Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                           For meeting of
                                                                                 Board: Tuesday, July 6, 2004


FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                          Maldives: Integrated Human Development Project

                                            Project Appraisal Document


         Attached is the Project Appraisal Document regarding a proposed credit to the Republic

of Maldives for an Integrated Human Development Project (IDA/R2004-0168). This project will

be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, July 6, 2004 under the

Streamlined Procedure.



Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                              Documentof
                                           The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 2771O-MAL




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                                          PROPOSED CREDIT

          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.9 MILLION (US$15.6 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES

                                                FOR AN

                          INTEGRATED HUMANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                              May 28,2004




HumanDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice


This documenthas arestricteddistribution andmay be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange RateEffective December31,2003)

                         CurrencyUnit = Rufiyaa(Rf)
                               Rf 12.8 = US$1
                                  US$1 = Rf0.07815

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1  -- December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank
ADC        Atoll DevelopmentCommittee
AEC        Atoll EducationCenter
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs       Community Based Organizations
DCA        DevelopmentCredit Agreement
DER        DepartmentofExternal Resources
EDC        EducationDevelopmentCenter
EMP        Environment ManagementPlan
ESQIS      Education SupervisionandQuality Improvement Section
FMR        Financial ManagementReport
GCE O/L    General Certificate of EducationOrdinary Level(GCE 0 level)
GCE/AL     GeneralCertificate of EducationAdvanced Level(GCE A level)
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOM        Governmentof Maldives
HIES       HouseholdIncome & ExpenditureSurvey
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA '      International DevelopmentAssociation
IDC        IslandDevelopmentCommittee
ISSP       Information Services StrategyPlan
MAB        Maldives Accreditation Board
MCPW       MinistryofConstructionandPublic Works
MCST       Ministry of Communications, Science andTechnology
MDG        MilleniumDevelopmentGoals
M&E        MonitoringandEvaluation
MEL        Ministry of Employment and Labour
MHAE       Ministryof HomeAffairs andEnvironment
MICS       MultipleIndicator Cluster Survey
MMA        Maldives Monetary Authority
MOE        Ministry of Education
MFT        MinistryofFinanceandTreasury
MOH        Ministry of Health
MPND       MinistryofPlanningandNational Development
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NCDs       Non-CommunicableDiseases
NPV        Net PresentValue

                                                            FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




    NSB            National Scholarship Board
    OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
    PMC            Project Management andCoordination Section
    PIP            Project ImplementationPlan
    PMC            Project Management Coordination
    QCBS           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
    RCLC           Residential Community LearningCenter
    SA             Special Account
    SBCQ           Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
    TA             Technical Assistance
    TC             Teacher Center
    UNDP           UnitedNations Development Programme
    VPA            Vulnerability and Poverty Assessment



                                Vice President:    Praful Pate1
                             Country Director:     Alastair J. Mckechnie
                     Sector ManagerIDirector:      MansooraRashidJulian Schweitzer
                 Task LeaderiCo-Task Leader:       Qaiser M.Khan/ D.H.C. Aturupane




This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                               _-


                                              MALDIVES
                        INTEGRATEDHUMANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  9
   2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project                       11
   3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                       12

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                            13
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       15
   3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                  15
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
   5. Value addedo f Bank support inthis project                                         16

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           16
   2. Financial                                                                          17
   3. Technical                                                                          18
   4. Institutional                                                                      18
   5. Environmental                                                                      20
   6. Social                                                                             22
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                  25

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     26
   2. Critical risks                                                                     26
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
   2. Other                                                                              27

H. Readiness for Implementation

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             27



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    31
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    46
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    47
           (B) FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                         53
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                  59
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            61
Annex 11: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      63




MAP(S)
IBRDMap 33317

                                                      MALDIVES
                                        IntegratedHumanDevelopmentProject

                                         ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                               SouthAsia RegionalOffice
                                            Human DevelopmentSector Unit

Date: May 20, 2004                                           Team Leader: Qaiser M.Khan
Sector ManagedDirector: MansooraRashid                       Sector@): Other social services (40%), General education
Country ManagedDirector: Alastair J. Mckechnie               sector (30%), Health (20%), Sub-national government
Project ID: PO78523                                          administration(10%)
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan(SIL)             Theme@): Social risk reduction (P), Educationfor all (S),
                                                             Public expenditure, financial management andprocurement



                  [XI Credit      [ ]Grant       [ ]Guarantee          [ ]Other:
   For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Amount (US$m): 15.76 million

   ProposedTerms (IDA): Standard Credit
   Grace period (years): 10                                  Years to maturity:40
   Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%                                 Service charge: 0.75%
 Financing Plan (US$m):         Source                                    Local            Foreign          Total
 BORROWER                                                                    2.74     '        0.00           2.74
a
IDA                                                                          3.56             12.20          15.76
                                                                             6.30             12.20          18.50
   Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MALDIVES
   Responsibleagency: MLIINISTRY OF FINANCE AND TREASURY
   Address: Ameenee Magu, Male', Republic of Maldives
   Contact Person: Riluwan Shareef
   Tel: 960-31-7586               Fax: 960-32-4432                   Email: fiedms@finance.gov.mv
   Other Agency(ies):
   Project Coordination and Management Section, Ministry of Education
   Address: blHA Building, Male', Republic of Maldives
   Contact Person: Ms. Shehenaz Abdulla, Assistant Director
   Tel: 960-327352                Fax: 960-315474                  Email: piu@hrd.gov.mv
IEstimatedDisbursements( Bank FY/US$mk
             I           I          I           I           I           I            I
 ~~                                        .  I

      FY         2005       2006       2007        2008        2009         2010
      Annual     2.00         4.60       4.60         3.10        1.oo        0.46
Cumulative       2.00         6.60      11.20        14.30       15.30        15.76
   Project implementationperiod: Six Years
   Expectedeffectivenessdate: 09/30/2004       Expected closing date: 06/30/2010

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives ofthis project are to: (i)  improve social outcomes andpromote economic
growth by strengtheningthe delivery o f social services (education, healthand nutrition services) available
to the population; (ii)
                      reduce poverty and promote regional equity by strengthening social service delivery
andincreasing economic opportunities inatolls remote from the prosperousMale region; and (iii)      promote
ecologically sustainabledevelopment by concentrating services and populations on ecologically viable
islands withinthese atolls. The Govemment o f Maldives (GOM) has selected 10 ecologically viable but
poor islands, remote from the Male region, to pilot its strategy to achieve the above objectives. These
islands possess the potential to develop into altemative regional economic and social centers to the capital
Male, acting as hubs for the delivery o f social services, public administration and local govemment. The
project will assistthe Govemment on four islands, Eydhafushi inBaa Atoll, NaifaruinLhaviyaniAtoll,
Kudahuvadhoo inDhaalu Atoll and Gan inLaamuAtoll, to serve as pilots o f the government's strategy.
These atolls, Baa and Lhaviyanilocated north o f Male' and Dhaalu and Laamulocated south o f Male', are
among the more underdeveloped regions of the country.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)


           The keyperformance indicators for the four project atolls are:

          0    Increase incitizen satisfaction with social services on focus islands, as measuredby Citizen
               Report Cards and Community Score Cards, by 30% by end-of-project..
          0    Increase insecondary (grade 8-10) enrolments on focus islands by 25% by end-of-project.
          0    Female students account for at least 40% o f the student residents inthe Residential Leaming
               Centers on the four focus islands by end-of-project..
          0    Reductioninthe gender gap in0-level pass rates on focus islands by 25% by
               end-of-project..
          0    Reduction injob search waiting time on focus islands by 20% by end-of-project.
          0    Increase from zero to 50% inthe use o f Standard Treatment Protocols on Focus Island
               Hospitals by end-of-project..
          0    Reduce the numbero f children showing faltering growth duringweaning period (6 to 12
               months) by 30% on the focus islands by end o f project.
          0    20% increaseinnumber or value o f local development initiatives undertaken by CBOs on
               focus islands by end-of-project.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: IDNR 2000 -206             Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/12/2000

The overarching objective o f the CAS, which covers FY2001-FY2004, i s the reductiono f poverty and
regional disparities inaccess to social services and infrastructure. The proposed project is designedto help
realize the CAS goals by piloting an innovative, cost-effective method o f expanding public social services
on disadvantaged atolls remote from the affluent Male region.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Maldives i s a chain o f IndianOcean islands spreadover a distance o f 900 kilometers, and located


                                                      - 2 -

between northem latitude 4 to slightly south o f the equator. The landarea, which covers about 26
geographic atolls, is grouped into 20 administrative atolls. The population of the Maldives is about
300,000. The country faces two main geographic challenges: (a) the absence o f a significant landmass,
which has resultedina highlydispersedpopulation, and (b) the low altitude o f the existing islands. The
country has 1,190 islands, o f which 198 are inhabited. O f these islands, only 33 have a land area greater
than one squarekilometer. One thirdofthe inhabited islandshave apopulationof less than 500 and70% of
the inhabitedislands have a population o f less than 1,000. This extremely low population density makes the
Maldives unique, even among small island archipelagic states. Italso raisesthe cost o f delivering social
services and of public administration, as there is hardly any scope to generate economies o f scale. The
altitude o f most o f the islands inthe Maldives is very low, just above sea level. As a result, rising sea levels
cause many islands to disappear and new ones to appear. This has rendered some inhabited islands
ecologically vulnerable, while other islands have become too densely populated to sustain their
communities. The greater Male' area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter o f the population,
i s o f specific concem, with increasing strain on social andpublic services causedby continuing
in-migration from other parts o f the archipelago.

This uniquegeography and vulnerability poses two key development challenges for the country. First, the
dispersion o f the population across the archipelago raises the cost o f deliveringsocial servicesto the
population, as it is difficult to realize economies o f scale in serviceprovision. Second, some inhabited
islands have become ecologically vulnerable, while other islands have become too densely populated. The
greater Male' area, already home to 70,000 people or almost a quarter o f the population, is o f specific
concem. The continuing migration to Male' from other partso f archipelago inresponse to ecological
vulnerability inthe outer atolls and betterjob opportunities andhigher quality o f social andpublic services
inthe Male' regionhas severely increasedpopulationpressure inthe region. Addressing these challengesis
an important thrust o f the Government's poverty and development strategy described below.

Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy

The Maldives has enjoyed rapideconomic growth over the past 25 years or so, basedon the highly
successful development o f a tourism industry aimed at the upper-endo f the global tourism market, a
prosperous fishingindustry and an expanding service sector. GDP growth inthe past two decades has
averaged over 9 percent per year, resulting ina tripling o f per capita income since 1980 to US$2,280 in
2002. The literacy rate among females aged 15 and above has reached 97 percent andthe net primary
school enrolment rate has risenrapidly, from 38 percent to 93 percent, over the last three decades. The
health status of the population has also improved considerably. The average life expectancy at birth
increased from 50 years in 1970 to 69 years in 2002.

The Govemment has also invested inimprovingits humancapital basebyproviding universal access to
primary education and basic health care on each inhabited island. The infant mortality rate declined from
159 per thousand live birthsin 1970 to 55 per thousand live births in2002. The crude death rate fell from a
high38 per thousandto 4 over the same period. Finally, the population growth rate declinedfrom over 3
percent around 1990 to 1.9 percent in2002, reflecting decreases infertility that can be attributed, to a
considerable extent, to the improved education status o f women.

Economic growth and improvements inhuman development indicators have substantially reduced income
andnon-income dimensions of poverty inthe Maldives. Destitutionandextreme hunger are rare in
Maldives, andit is entirely plausible that Maldives will meet most ifnot all o f the MDGtargets, with child
malnutrition the only MDGtarget which i s still a problem. While the Maldives does not yet have an official
or widely acceptedpoverty line, preliminary analysis based on the HouseholdandIncome Survey (HIES
2002103) and usinga range of plausible poverty lines suggests that poverty is substantially higher inthe



                                                        - 5 -

outer atolls than inMale', irrespective o f the poverty line chosen. Preliminary analysis also suggests that
headcount poverty declined sharplybetween 1997198 and2002103. Most income poverty is concentratedin
the outer atolls, especially inthe more remote islands. Non-income dimensions ofpoverty anddeprivation,
such as health, nutrition, education and access to local government services, also consistently reveal worse
conditions inthe atolls incomparison to the capital Male' region.

The government has developed atwo pronged strategyto distribute the benefits of economic growth to all
parts o f the country. The first element o f the strategy is to develop two regional centers, one inAddu Atoll
inthe far south andthe secondinHaaDhaaluAtoll inthe far north. These centersare designedto have
airports, goodports and other social and infrastructure facilities. The regional centers are to be
complemented by focus islands on different atolls to act as atoll service hubs andgrowth centers. The
government is also seeking to distribute the benefits o ftourism to all atolls by allowing new resortsto be
opened inthe atolls which currently lack resorts. The opening o f the new intemational airport and
international port inAddu Atoll will bringtourism and other economic benefits withinreach of the more
isolated southem atolls. The government expects these developments to reduce regional differentials and
promote growth andemployment opportunities outside o f Male. The government also plans to address
poverty among the most vulnerable groups, who may not be able to benefit from the growth strategy, by
developing special targeted income support programs. To achieve this objective, the Government i s
considering commencing a universal non-contributory old age pension scheme and expanding targeted
safety nets for the non-elderly poor. The government has requestedWorld Bank technical support to
develop these new programs.

3. Major Sector Issues

The success ofthe Maldives inachieving basic levels of social development, such as near universal primary
school enrolment, reduced infant mortality and higher life expectancy, has created a set o f second
generation challenges inthe provision of social services.

Education Services.        The fragmented studentpopulation, scatteredover 198 small islands, now requires
secondary schools to continue their education beyondthe primary grades. Currently, a highproportion o f
secondary school enrolment is inMale', while students in outer atolls are forced to complete their education
at the end of the primary cycle at grade 7. This leads to highregional disparities ineducation, with gross
enrolment inMale' at about 131%and inthe outer atolls only 53%. The government o f Maldives has
adopted a policy that all children inthe age group 6-16 should be entitled to 10 years o f public education.
However, establishing a secondary school network on all inhabited islands would be prohibitively
expensive, requiring massive investment in school infrastructure, andhighrecurrent expenditureswith an
impliedstudent-teacherratio o f about 5:1ifall inhabitedislands were to contain secondary schools. The
Government strategy i s to concentrate secondaryeducation infocus islands. Inaddition, policy makers
consider the quality o f secondary education inthe outer atolls to be unsatisfactory. For instance, the pass
rates at the GCE O/L and GCE A/L are considerably higher for students in Male' than for students inthe
outer atolls. Teacher deployment is a problem for schools inremote islands, and the government i s forced
to recruit expensive expatriate teachers for secondary schools inthe outer atolls. Maldivianteachers in
these atolls, even at the primary level, also tendto be poorly trained. Inaddition, principals and section
heads, such as headmastersand headmistresses,have few opportunities to receive in-service training. The
availability o f teaching material andleaming resources, too, is limited in schools inthe outer atolls. The
Government strategy is to enhance quality through initiatives such as professional development o f academic
and administrative staff inthe outer atolls and greater investment inteaching material and leaming
resources.




                                                        - 4 -

Due to the geography of the Maldives students seeking secondary education often have to travel to other
islands, including Male', to attend secondary schools. According to the recently completed beneficiary
assessment, female students attending school away from home tendto be obliged to carry out domestic
chores within host households, which reduces their time for academic study.This deters many girls from
enrolling insecondary schools away from their home islands. Passrates for girls at the O-level exams are
about 18% below those o fboys. The poor test results for girls relative to boys runcontrary to the usual
pattern experienced inmost other countries and even inMale', where girls perform better. This emphasizes
the need to address the constraints faced by girls studyingoutside their home islands. Inaddition, students
from poor families are at a disadvantageinaccessing education opportunities outside their home islands
due to cost constraints. The Government strategy is to establish residential learningcenters on the focus
islands to enable students from primary islands to live on the focus islands and attend secondary school.

Health and Nutrition Services. The rapidexpansion o f the Maldivianpopulation over the past 25 years,
combinedwith higher life expectancy, has createda need for regional health services to combat a range o f
non-communicable and degenerativediseases. Past investmentshave created a basic healthnetwork, across
the atolls, capable o f dealing with basic communicable diseases. However, establishing advanced health
services on all islands is prohibitively expensive, given the small populations on the large majority o f
islands. Currently, Maldivians are forced to travel to Male or even South India or Sri Lanka to receive
tertiary level healthcare.

Upgradmg a regional health center on each atoll to offer diagnosis andtreatment for non-communicable and
degenerative diseases provides a rational strategy to improve the quality o fhealth care available on the
atolls. A key constraint to the development of such regional healthcenters is the difficulty o f providing
off-site training to healthpersonnel on a regular basis, because the small quantity o f health staff members
at each center precludes the release o f staff from the island for longperiods. The Government proposesto
use telemedicine expand the range o f health services available inatoll health centers cost-effectively.
Similarly, training programs basedon distance learningmethodologies will be usedto upgrade the skills
and knowledge o f medicalpersonnel while they remain on the islands.

The extensive use o f foreign health personnel on the outer atolls causes variations intreatment, including
the use o f medicines and drugs. Maldivian health ministry staff believe that it is important to develop
standard treatment protocols for non-communicable diseases (these already exist for communicable
diseases) to reduce regional imbalances inthe quality o f care offered. The Government proposesto develop
standard treatment protocols for non-communicable diseases.

There are also sporadic shortages o f essential drugs on the atolls, and even focus islands, as private
pharmacies tendto stock medicines which are more profitable rather than essentialdrugs. Some island
development committees have expressed interest incommunity pharmacies to address this problem, andthe
Government proposes to assist communities to establish pharmacies to sell essentialdrugs on the outer
atolls.

Despite its highlevel o fper capita income andrelatively good health infrastructure, the Maldives suffers
from unexpectedly highrates of malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies as well as a disease burden
causedby perinatal mortality, and a slow decline inmaternal mortality. According to the 2001 Multiple
Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2001), over 30% o f children under 5 are two standard deviations below
their expected weight for age. Malnutrition(weight for age) rises sharply after the first twelve months,
likely becauseo finadequate weaning practices and foods. These problems can usuallybe addressed
through nutritioneducation. According to MICS 2001, VitiaminA deficiencies are quite high and this
deficiency can have a major on vision and survival. Similarly Irondeficiencies among women are highwith


                                                      - 5 -

MICS 2001 findingthat 51% o f women have some form o f anemia. The anemia rate i s higher among
pregnant women (56%). Iodine deficiency which can slow mentaldevelopment and cause miscarriages is
also high. Over 20% o f school children were found to have iodine deficiency. Globally, this has been
addressedby salt iodization, but though iodized salt is available inthe Maldives, the MICS 2001 survey
found that only 44% households actually usediodized salt. The Government proposes to implementa
nutritioneducation and awareness creation program to improve dietary habits and food preparation
patterns.

The highperinatal mortality and slow decline inmaternal mortality is largely the result of poor access o f
woernn to skilled birthattendants. Currently more than a third(36%) of the deliveries are still conducted by
untrainedbirthattendants. Global experience suggests that improving"skilled attendance" i s critical to
reduce maternal andperinatal deaths. Ingeographic conditions that limit access to obstetric services, the
concept o f "maternity waiting homes" has been successfully used. Some o f the inputsplannedunder other
components o f the project could be effectively usedto improve access for skilled care during delivery. For
example, the Government i s considering transporting women residinginislands without skilleddelivery
care services to the focus islanda fortnight before their expected date o f delivery and stay at the
"multi-purpose building" untildelivery. This opportunity canbe usedto educatewomen inchild caring
practices with stronger emphasis on exclusive breast feeding, including demonstrations for weaning foods.

A beneficiary impact assessmentcarriedout duringthe summer of 2003 on two o fthe focus islands and
their associatedprimary islands, inthe BaaAtoll inthe north and LamuAtoll inthe south, found that
health care services inthe primary islands were perceived to be significantly worse than those found on
focus islands. However, with the exception o f very serious cases, the high cost o f transport forced
households to use the poorer quality health services on primary islands. This problem is compounded by
infrequent transportservices.Inemergencies,people have to rentboats which are even more expensive. The
transport issue was cited as a major constraint to accessinghealth care by 89% o f those interviewed on
primary islands inBaaAtoll and by 79% inLamuAtoll. The focus islandresidents reportedthat they had
access to all health services on their own islands and were generally satisfied. The Government strategy to
address this problem is to provide facilities on focus islands for patients from primary islands to reside
duringthe periodthey needtreatment.

Employment Services. The Maldives is beginningto face aproblem o f youth unemployment as a result of
working age population expansion and risingeducation levels. The country's unique geography and
population distribution places sharp constraints on worker mobility. According to the poverty and
vulnerability survey in 1998,the unemploymentrate for the whole country was 10% (22% for females).
The unemployment rate inMake was 6% (27% for females) and inthe four focus atolls the unemployment
rate was 13% (28% for female). The new survey this year will update the results but all indications are
that there the large differentials between Male and the Atolls are likely to persist. On the labor demandside,
job-growth i s concentratedinservicejobs inthe hotel I tourism sector mainly inthe central region around
Male. Thus, employment opportunities inthe outer atolls for young educatedpeople (outside o f traditional
fisheries sector) are limited. School leavers inthe outer atolls might be willing to acceptjobs inthe Male'
region, but have limited information about thesejobs. Hightransport costs also restrict the ability o f
people to earch for jobs. As a result, most newjobs inthe service sector use foreign labor. On the supply
side, the skills mismatchbetween graduates inouter islands and service sectorjobs requirements may also
contribute to highunemployment levels.

The Government plans to strengthenmeasuresto improve the flow of information about labor market
opportunities within the Maldives to reducejob searchperiods for young people and matchjob seekers with
potential employers. As noted above, the Government also proposes to address the skills mismatch by


                                                     - 6 -

improvingthe access and quality o f secondary school education inouter atolls. Finally, the Government
plansto spreadthe benefits of growth to the outer atolls by facilitating the development ofresorts inthese
regions. The evidence from atolls with resorts suggeststhat not only do they createjobs directly, but they
also enhance the scope for self-employment and income generating activities on neighboringislands. The
presence o f the resorts increasiesthe demandfor local handicrafts and souvenirs leading to apositive
impact onpoverty reductionthrough employment creation onneighboring islands. Inparticular, women
who are not allowed to work on resorts due to cultural factors benefit as income generating activities are
developed intheir home islands inthe neighborhoods ofresorts.

Community Services. Community organizations traditionally play an importantrole inthe life of the
Maldives, a country o f many small, islandcommunities. Most of the public or collective services available
on distant islands are provided by community groups. The demand for good quality local govemment
services, such as public administration, law courts, police, water, electricity, posts and communications
have beenrisingwith population expansion, higher incomes andimproved education. Supplying such
facilities and services to each inhabited islandis prohibitively expensive, given the small population sizes
on the islands.

To address this issue, the govemment plans to develop focus islands to serve as local government hubs for
the atolls. Inaddition, the government desires to promote community participation inthe delivery o f public
services to empower atoll communities, and increaseaccountability and ownership o f o f the communities in
deliveringservices.Further, wherever possible, the government plans to concentrate the delivery o f local
public services inone location, to improve access and convenience o f use, and increase the efficiency o f
land utilization on space scarce focus islands.

The development of a nationalbroadbandnetwork to provide accessto internet basedpublic services
within atolls is also an important element ofthe government's strategy to improve the coverage andquality
o f local government. Currently, the cost o f intra-atoll and inter-atoll communication and information
transmission is severely constrained by the highcost o f telecommunications and the absence o f adequate
transmission capacity. The Government strategy i s to develop a broadbandnetwork would enable focus
islandhubsto supply services to the primary islands withintheir atolls more cheaply and effectively. In
addition, a broadbandnetwork would facilitate inter-atoll communications by substantially reducing costs
andincreasing the volume of information that canbe transmitted.

HiphPublicExpenditureBurden. As noted above, the provision o f social services inthe Maldives
special challenges giventhe dispersion o f its population. The country's public expenditure, in line with
other small island economies with dispersedpopulations, i s highat 40% o f GDP. Consequently, public
expenditure managementposes a major challenge to the Government. The Government's previous strategy
to widen access to services across the archipelago consisted o f creating facilities and providing services on
all islands, including those with small populations. Inthe education and health sectors, this approach has
ledto the establishment of a primary school and a primary healthpost on each inhabited island.
Establishing andmaintaining secondary schools and more advanced healthfacilities on each islandwould
be extremely expensive. Inaddition, public expenditure o f 40% o f national income current supports a basic
level o f local government services to atolls, with advanced services concentrated only inthe central Male'
region. Widening access to high quality local government services to the atolls is also likely to be extremely
costly. Hence, the government needsto maximize cost effectiveness indeveloping strategiesto improve
access and develop the quality o f education, healthcare and local govemment services inthe outer atolls.




                                                      - 7 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project design draws onthe recommendations ofthe WorldDevelopment Report 2004 on "Service
Delivery for the Poor" which stresses that public service delivery i s strengthenedwhen the long route of
accountability-through voice and social compact       -works inconjunctionwith the short-route o f
accountability - client power. The relationship of accountability among policy makers, service providers
and clients i s key to assuringquality services. The project design devolves decision makingon the delivery
o f education, health and community services to the lowest possible levels o f administrations -inthis case
Atoll andFocus Island. The feedback from the client to the service provider i s enhancedby use of citizen
report cards andother beneficiary feedback at the service provider level. This feedback mechanism is
enshrined inthe project's monitoring and evaluation system (see Annex 11).

The project will support the Government's economic and social development strategy; (a) improve social
outcomes; (b) reduce poverty and improve inter-regional equity; (c) increase employment inremote areas;
and(d) promote ecologically sustainable development by addressingthe following sector issues. These
issues have been discussedin detail above and are summarized as follows:

         Education Services: The key issues addressedby the project are (i) limitedaccess and high
                                                                                 the
         unitcosts of secondary education inremote atolls, (ii) quality of secondaryeducation atolls
                                                                  low
         and (iii)  absence o f information on school quality including student learnning for policy
         formulation.

         Health Services: The key sector issues addressedby the project are: (i) and quality o f care for
                                                                                    cost
         non-communicable diseases (NCDs) inthe Maldives and (ii)        highrates ofmalnutrition. Other
         issues identified such as highrates o fperinatal and matemalmortality andhigh transport costs are
         being addressedthrough separate programs.

         Employment Services: The key sector issues addressedby the project include: (i)       reducing the
         problems potentialworkers face inthe outer atolls due to asymmetric information on opportunities
         and poor readiness for the labor market and (ii)  increasing opportunities for self-employment and
         micro-enterprise.

         Community Services: The key sector issues addressedby the project include: (i) the   build
         technical and managerial capacity o f community basedorganizations (CBOs) to take the lead in
         community service provision, (ii)   provide incentives to CBOs to provide community services, (iii)
         reduce the cost of overhead inpublic service provision through the provision o f common facilities
         to be usedby all except education and health and(iv) weak access to inter-atoll communication.

The main strategic choices were (a) to address the sector issues above on four atolls as a pilot program,
rather than an on all atolls simultaneously; and (b) to cover all the main services rather than focus on
education or health services. The choice to focus on four atolls was basedon two considerations: (i)
resource availability, as heavy investment o f financial and human capital is required initially; and (ii)
                                                                                                         the
fact that this is a new Government approach which needsto be tested carefully and lessons leamedbefore it
i s scaled up to cover the entire country. The choice to focus on all services was made to take advantage o f
the island solidarity to enhance linkage between health, education, employment andcommunity services.
The whole project is underpinnedby a detailed monitoring and evaluation framework so that proper
lessons can be learned rapidly allowing the program to move beyondthe initial group o f atolls.




                                                      - 8 -

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcostbreakdown):
The project has four components that focus on strengtheningdelivery of (1) education services; (2) health
services; (3) employment services; and (4) community services. These components will be supportedby
strengthening monitoring and evaluation.

Component 1. Strengthen Education Service Deliverv. This project component will support the
following activities: (a) enhancing cost-effective access to secondary education through (i)      the
implementationo f a school rationalizationframework for focus atolls that expands and concentrates
secondary schools on focus islands (ii)   reduce transport constraints faced by students (particularly poor and
female students) who needto travel to focus islands to attend school, by establishing community-managed
residential learningcenters on focus islands; (b) improve the quality o f education on focus islands by: (i)
improving the capabilities and skills o f teachers, including for multi-grade teaching where necessary, (ii)
raising the quality o f school leadership and administration on the part of principals, headmasters, and
headmistresses,(iii)    expanding education facilities such as IT centers, science laboratories, multi-purpose
rooms, library and teacher resource centers, and (iv) increasing the supply o f teaching material and learning
resources; and (c) conduct whole school evalautions including assessments o f (i)       student learning
achievements, (ii)   teaching, (iii) management and effectiveness o f in-service training.
                                    school

Component 2. Strengthen Health Service Deliverv. The project component will support the following
activities: (a) rationalizing care for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) by: (i)        establishing standard
treatment protocols for risk factor management, (ii)     setting standard operating procedures, (iii)    improving
access to specialist services for focus islandresidents through telemedicine, and (iv) improvingaccess to
essentialmedicines at low cost by supporting community pharmacies, and (v) training staff inusingthe
protocols and monitoring their use; (b) enhancing support for nutritionpromotion to address the widespread
problemo f childhood malnutrition through: (i)    communication o f strategic behavioral changes, (ii)
improvednutrition surveillance, and(iii) use of locally relevant complementary foods. The key
                                            greater
issue o f intra-atoll transport, which inhibits use o f existing health facilities on focus islands, i s best
addressedthrough a national transport sector program which is currently being preparedby the
government.

Component 3. Strengthen Employment Services. This project component will enhance employment
prospects o f individuals, particularly those residing inremote atolls by (a) supporting cost effectivejob
information andjob counseling services through (i)       a national jobs information network, (ii)   establishing
job centers on focus islands, (iii) career and employment counseling throughjob centers and (iv) business
centers to facilitate business development; and(b) expanding existingmircrofinance programs to all o f the
focus islands. The counselors inthejob centers will help link individuals, as needed, to a national skills
development program which i s runby the Ministryof Labor and financed by the Asian Development Bank,
andan externally-funded micro-finance program operatedbythe Atoll Development Committees. The
linkage to these services will allow individuals to access income opportunities inremote atolls. By
connecting individuals to market basedemployment generating initiatives, the component will help improve
economic growth on focus islands, and thereby increasethe likelihoodo fmigration from other islands. The
resultinghigherpopulationdensity will enable the realization o feconomies o f scale, and hencethe
establishment o f new economic activities or sectors on focus islands.

Component 4. Strenpthen Communitv Services. The project will improve service deliveryby
strengtheningcommunity services, Le. public administration andlocal government, on focus islands. The



                                                         - 9 -

project will strengthen and improve community groups by providing: (a) leadership andmanagementskills
training to community based organizations; (b) financial support to community groups, through a
community development fund and cooperativesoffering community-wide services; (c) support to the
development o f multi-purpose buildingsto consolidate the provision of services; and (d) the development
o fbroadbandnetworks on each focus island. The capacity strengthening o f community groups and the
provision o fnecessaryinfrastructure andbroadband networks will enable the communities on focus
islands to manage services effectively andefficiently. The unification o f community services into single
multi-purpose buildings will consolidate islandpublic services and avoid duplicating investmentinland
constrained communities.

Proiect Monitoringand Evaluation Framework(see Annex 11). The project's monitoring and
evaluation strategy is basedon three sets o f activities:


         1.      a computerized project MIS;

         ii. studies,surveysandevaluations;and
         ...
         111.    participatory monitoring andevaluation.

Project MIS.A computerized project Management Information System (PMIS) will be established to assist
the PMC and other implementing agenciesto: (i) annual work plans and budgets, (ii)
                                                    prepare                                     monitor
actual physical implementation, (iii)track project expenditures, and (iv) facilitate regular progress
reporting. A financial management systemwill address some o f these requirements, andother requisite data
will be available inrelevant government ministries.

Baseline Study. Baseline data will be collected andcompiled duringthe first year o f the project.
Construction ofrequisite infrastructure and provision of services inseveral components will only start in
the second or thirdyear o fthe project. This presents the project with a window o f opportunity to utilize
national survey instruments such as the Poverty Vulnerability (VPA) Survey 2004, Census 2005,
HouseholdIncome & Expenditure Survey (HIES 2003), the MultipleIndictor Cluster Survey (MICS 2001
and 2006) inthe generation o f baseline data and subsequentmonitoring and evaluation efforts.
Subsequently, the project will conduct regular surveys and studies to provide information on
implementation performance and the anticipated achievement o f development objectives.

Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation. A participatory approach with qualitative indicators to
promote accountability o f service providers has been used inother countries to improve provision o fbasic
social services. This approach will be usedinthis project to promote a working partnership between service
providers and beneficiaries. The responsible agency andmethodology for implementingcitizen report cards
and community score cards i s discussed, detailed and finalized, under the rubric o f the project's broader
monitoring andevaluation (M&E) strategy. Information from the scorecards will feed into the overall
monitoring and evaluation framework of the project.




                                                      - 10-

StrengthenProjectManagement: This component will support training andtechnical assistanceto the
PMC and the Ministry o f Finance and Treasury (MFT) to improve its functioning. It also includes the cost
o f activities such as civil works and environmental consultancies which are not sector specific.

                                                                 Indicative                1    Bank-       % of
                             Component                             costs        % of          financing     Bank-
                                                                  (US$M)        Total      I   (US$M)     financing
 Strengthen Education ServicesDelivery                               8.58          46.4           7.25        46.0
 Strengthen Health Services Delivery                                 2.19           11.8          1.99        12.6
 Strengthen Employment Services                                      1.30            7.0          1.11         7.0
 Strengthen Community Services                                       3.62           19.6          3.17        20.1
 Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                   1.16            6.3          1.16         7.4
 Strengthen Project Management                                       1.65            8.9          1.08         6.9
                                            Total Project Costs I   18.50   1I     100.0    1I   15.76  1I   100.0
                                     TotalFinancingReauiredl        18.50 1        100.0 1       15.76 1     100.0

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The key policies and institutional reforms that will be sought inrelation to this project include:

          a. Development o f a school rationalization framework that supplies primary education on all
               inhabited islands and concentrates secondary education on a set o f carefully selected focus
               islands;

          b. Establishment o fa framework for use of standardtreatment protocols and standard operating
              procedures for atoll and regional hospitals;

          c. Establishment o f a framework for community pharmacies to operate; and

          d. Creation of a framework for more effective community-led service managementon the selected
              focus islands.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The immediate beneficiaries include:

          a.       Students inthe secondary schoolingage group on focus atolls;

         b.        Poor and female students who experience specific problems inattending schools outside
                   their home islands;

          c.       Women andchildren benefiting from pre-natal care, well-baby services, andnutrition
                   promotionprograms available on the focus islands;

         d.        Job-seekerswho use employment services, particularly inremote atolls;

         e.        Cooperatives and other community groups on focus islands benefiting from the capacity
                   buildingand other support provided, including access to the islanddevelopment fund; and




                                                     - 11 -

         f.       All residents ofthe selectedfocus atolls through the availability ofbetter quality services
                  on their islands.

Ultimately, when the focus islands develop into regional centers offering people an altemative to the Male
region, the broader population will also benefitthrough the cost-effective delivery o f highquality public
services, reduced disparities between Male' andthe rest o f the country, andhigher economic growth.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
Dueto the multi-sector nature ofthe project, arrangementshavebeenmade to ensure inter-agency
coordination duringproject implementation. Although implementation will be mainly the responsibility o f
the line ministries, a high-level inter-ministerial committee hasbeen establishedto provide policy guidance
andresolve strategic differences betweenministries. At the atoll andfocus island level, the Atoll Chief and
the IslandChiefwill play a key role in coordinating development and working across agencies.

         Project components will be managed as follows:

a.       The Ministry ofEducationwill be responsible for the strengtheningeducation servicescomponent;

b.       The Ministry o f Health will be responsible for the strengtheninghealth services component, with
         the following exceptions. The community pharmacieswill be operatedby community groups
         (CBOs), after initial training provided bythe MOH. The nutritionprograms will also be managed
         by CBOs, with extensive technical support from M O Hpersonnel;

C.       The Ministryof Employment andLabor (MEL) will beresponsible forjob centers. Community
         groups will runthe income generation activity, with support from the Ministryo f Atoll
         Development (MOAD) who operatethese programs nationwide;

d.       The Ministry of Atoll Development (MOAD) will be responsible for capacity buildingactivities of
         the community services component, except for broadbandnetworks on focus islands, which will be
         implementedby the Ministryo f Communications, Science and Technology (MCST). The MCST
         implementsthe overall, nationalbroadbandnetwork; and

e.       The Project Management and Coordination Section (PMC) of the Ministry of Educationwill
         managethe monitoring and evaluation system, with support from Ministry o f Planning and
         National Development (MPND) and the Ministry o f Finance and Treasury (MFT).

The Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) for the ThirdEducation Project, which has beenre-structured as a
an integralpart of the Government i s now the Project Management andCoordination Section (PMC) inthe
Ministry o f Education. This has beendone to emphasize its new role as a facilitator rather than an
implementingagency, is expectedto managethe procurement and disbursement activities. This section
reports directly to the Minister o f Education, but has acquired considerable experience working with
differentministries through the implementationof the ThirdEducationandTraining Project (TETP), which
spanned severalministries. The PMC i s financed by the Government. It also managesprocurement and
disbursement for all IDA projects andsome other donor projects.

ProjectImplementation Plan (PIP).This has beenpreparedwith a special focus on clarifying the system
of multi-ministryexecution. The PIP clearly lays out the tasks and responsibilities o f each Ministryand
unit,and sets upa system to determine priorities.




                                                      - 1 2 -

Financial Management. IDA funds would be paid out directly to the suppliers from a Special Account
(SA) established at the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). The PMC will prepare the documentation,
get the necessaryclearances and submitpayment orders to the MMA. Reimbursement ofthe SA will be
done by the MOF. The FMRs andthe Withdrawal Application will be prepared by the PMC and
submittedto the MFT. The MFT inturnwill submit documents to the Association for replenishmentof the
SA. The local contribution will be paidby the MMA from a local account, basedon documentation
preparedby the PMC andclearedby the MOE. Inorder to ensure that adequate local contributions are
available for the first year o f operation, the Borrower will deposit $50,000 ina local account, within sixty
days after signature of the Credit Agreement.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
  The mediumterm development objective ofthe project is to expand access and cost effectively to
  improve the quality o fpublic services inthe atolls. The long-term development objective is to create
  atoll growthpoles inthe focus islands to make them attractive alternatives to Male. This strategy is
   intendedto spreadthe benefits of economic growth andsocial development more evenly across the
  country, and reduce rapidly rising congestion and living costs inMale'.

   Choice of Lending Instrument

  The possibility of applying aprogrammatic lending instrument (adjustment operation, PRSC, SWAP)
  was considered andrejected infavor of a SIL for the following reasons:

  The proposedproject pilots a new approach inthe Maldives, supporting the development o f carefully
   selectedfocus islands as regional centers o f quality services and, eventually, economic growth. A
  programmatic approach such as a SWAP typically covers the entire country, and would be more
   suitable, ifthe pilot i s successful, for a future expansion o f the approach to the entire country. An
   adjustment operation or a PRSC i s more suitable for a policy based operation, whereas the proposed
  project focuses, to a considerable extent, on development issues within the new policy framework.
  Further,considerable technical assistanceis requiredboth at the design andimplementationstages.
  Hence, an investment operation (or SIL) was considered the most suitable approach. The proposed SIL
  also includes a detailed monitoring and evaluation system to ensurethat lessonsare leamt and
  incorporated. Future support to the focus islands program, once the concept has been tried out and
  found satisfactory, can be provided on a wider scale through programmatic operations such as SWAPS
  or budget support.

   Choice of Components and Activities

  A project focusing only onhealth, education or local serviceswas consideredbutnot selected, for the
  following reasons. Past experience shows that supporting improvement ineither education or health
  services alone on the larger islands was not adequateto attract voluntary migration from smaller islands
  to rationalizepopulation centers. The strategy o f the proposed project involves improvingthe broad
  spectrum ofpublic services available on the focus islands, as well as increasing the accessibility o f
  focus island services for primary islandpopulations.

  Education services. The education services component will support the activities that most directly



                                                       - 13-

increaseaccess and enhancethe quality of secondaryeducation, such as expanding secondary schools on
focus islands andimproving the professional quality of principals and teachers. The community
managedresidential learningcenters have the dual objective o f improving the learningenvironments of
students and relaxingtransport constraints to attend school. Inaddition, these centers will also provide a
base on the focus islands for people from primary islands, which could eventually support the long-run
goal o f attracting people to the focus islands. The main altemative considered was the provision o f
distance mode secondaryeducation to the primary islands. This altemative was rejected as distance
mode services were not considered suitable for the education of 13-15 year olds as recent attemptsto
use this approach inthe country has shown poor results.

Health services. Activities to be supportedby the project to improve health services are governed by the
existing network o f health facilities on the selectedfocus islands. The aim was to set inplace a system of
care on these islands to eventually reduce the burdenof non-communicable diseases, which are a
growing problem inthe Maldives (see Annex 2). The choice o f instruments such as standardprotocols
andtele-diagnosis are meantto rationalize care, andthereby reduce the cost and complications of
treating non-communicable diseases. The main alternative considered was establishing advancedhealth
facilities on all islands. This option was rejected as it was prohibitively expensive.

The highrates o f malnutrition inthe Maldives appear to be attributable to poor nutritionpractices rather
than an overall lack o f food. The project will support nutrition activities including the development and
demonstration of recipes usinglocally available ingredients which provide full nutrition
supplementation. This will require purchase o f small amounts o f food not to exceed US$20,000. This
can bejustifiedunder Section VI, Para. 16 o f Bank Financing: Guidelines to Staff(OPCS, April
 16,2004) because it i s (a) an essential andintegral part of the project designed to enhance children's
growth and development; and (b) the most cost-effective altemative towards achievingthese objectives.
The target group will be children who fall below the growth curve on the focus islands. A regular
program o f growth monitoring i s being established as part of the project.

Employment services. This component focuses on relaxing two critical constraints inthe labor market.
First, it combats the problem o fthe absence ofjob informationon the atolls. Atoll populations are
willing to take up resortjobs, but often lack access to informationonjob opportunities. The second
problem is that Maldivian school completers are often not preparedfor the labor market. The first
problemwill be addressedby job counseling and information services. The primarytask o f the job
centers will be the provision o fjob information' job counseling. The project will support cost effective
job counselinghformation services through single personjob centers. Job centers offering more
extensive services (such as training, etc.) akin to the OECD model were rejected as altematives because
these serviceshave highcosts and have been found to have very limitedimpact. A recent study by the
World Bank (Betcherman, Gordon, Karina Olivas and Amit Dar Impact of Active Labor Market
Programs: New Evidencefvom Evaluations with Particular Attention to Developing and Transition
Countries,January 2004, Washington) finds that job counseling andjob informationare the most cost
effective employment services The secondproblem will be addressedby counseling services, and linking
individuals to entrepreneurial opportunities elsewhere inthe atoll. The improvement inthe quality and
access to education inthe outer atolls will also help address the skills mismatch.

Community services. The activities supported, including community managed public services, can
improve the quality o f life and create the basis for future growth on the atolls. The main altemative
consideredwas complete government control o f all public services on all islands. This option was
rejected as it violates the existing GOM strategy o f empowering local communities inthe management
o f public assets.


                                                   - 14-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                       Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                   I            Project                       IPSR) Ratings
                                                                                         .      s
                                                                                  (Bank-finance1 projects only)
                                                                                  Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Quality o f Education and secondary           Third EducationandTraining               S               S
 education access                              Project
 Primary and Secondary Education               SecondEducation and Training            H S            H S
 Access                                       Project (Closed)
 Primary Education Access                     FirstEducationand Training               HS             H S
                                               Project (Closed)
 3ther development agencies
 ADB                                           Regional Development
 ADB                                          National Broadbandnetwork
 ADB                                          National Skills Development
 UNDP                                          Microfinance
 Islamic Development Bank                      Microfinance
                                              I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I- (Highly Unsatis

? T pwnna IPnrned 2nd reflerted in the nrniert deGsn!

Two lessonsfrom World Bank experience globally and on small islandeconomies have beenbuiltinto the
project. Specifically the project will:

         strengthenlocal coordinationandmanagement of services. Experience inisland economies shows
         that the most effective way to improve quality of services is to buildon islandsolidarity and
         develop ownership andaccountability at the community level. For technically complicated services
         which the beneficiaries cannot lead, such as health and education, they shouldbe given a chance to
         provide continuous feedback to service providers through appropriate feedback mechanisms (which
         have been included underthe M&Eframework for this project).

        reduce overhead and unit costs o fproviding services to scatteredpopulations by use of ICT and
       also by consolidating higher level services (e.g. secondary schools and tertiary health care) on a
       single island ineach atoll.

         Previous experience inthe Maldives has shown that providing direct fiscal incentives for
         individuals to move from islandto island are too costly andlikely to be unsustainable. Rather than
         move among the outer atolls, people looking for better services orjobs outside their own islands go
         to Male to find employment opportunities and better quality social services. Hence, a better
         strategy i s to create attractive alternatives to Male inthe outer atolls.

         The experience gained from the slow execution of the ThirdEducationand Training Project due to
         lack o f coordinationbetween ministries has been reflectedinthe proposed implementation design.
         A highpoweredinter-ministerial committee has been set up to guide the project and facilitate



                                                        - 15-

         solutions which are beyonda single Ministry. The ministerial tier o f this structure will meet when
         policy decisions are necessary, and the directoral tier will meet when operational issues arise.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentand ownership:
The President o fthe Maldives has statedhis support for this project to the Bank RVP. The
project, which i s inline with the borrower's regional development plan, has also received support
from all levels o f government. Infact, the borrower has already commenced implementingsome
aspects o f the project on selectedfocus islands.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthis project:
The World Bank's support inthe implementation ofthis project will bringtogether the unique combination
o f the Bank's macroeconomic and global expertise, and its international experience indifferent sectors. The
Bank's financial support will helpthe GOM inmoving forward to implementits innovativeproject at its
most critical, or initial pilot, stage. The World Bank`srole goes beyondmere financing. The Bank will also
technically support the implementationo fthis national strategy. Once tested and successful, the
development strategy could become a central element o fthe hture economic andsocial development policy
framework o f the Maldives.




E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit           NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
The project has the potentialto produce strong economic andsocial benefits, over a variety of sectors,
education, health, labor andpublic administration. The project will enable the country to increase access
and quality o f secondary education, raise access and, quality o f healthcare for non-communicable diseases,
improve nutritionlevels o f families, reduce labor market information gaps andpromote faster school to
work transition, and strengthenthe range o f local govemment services available inthe country. The project
investments are concentrated on four outer atolls that are considerably poorer than the capital Male' atoll
region. Inconsequence, the project has the potential to reduce regional inequality and improve the economic
welfare and social well-being o f poorer households.



Quantified benefits

The quantified economic and social benefits show that the project will yielda net present value o fbetween
USD23-39 million andaninternal social rate ofretumbetween 12%-15% [see Table 11, depending onthe
assumptionsmade to measure and quantify the benefit stream. The quantifiedelements o f the project are:
(a) savings on operating costs resultingfrom concentrating secondary school expansion on focus islands, as
against increasing secondary classes on all islands within the focus atolls; (b) savings on public and private
expenditureon drugs and medicines; (c) reducedtravel cost to access medical services; and (d) cost savings
from consolidating local public services.




                                                     - 1 6 -

                               Scenario two                 Scenario three               Scenario four
                               Low case.                    Middle case.                 Highcase.
  Net present value of                  22,946                        32,367                       39,405
1 benefits
  (USD `000)
  Present      value       of           38,734                       48,155                        55,193
  benefits
  (USD `000)
  Present value o f costs               15,788                        15,788                       15,788
  (USD `000)
  Social intemal rate of                   12                             14                           15
I return%
  Note: The net present value has been calculatedusing a discount rate o f 5% and assuming a benefit stream over a 35 year
 period, equal to the repayment duration of the credit.

 Further economic benejZts

  The project will generate further economic benefits, covering all project areas, education, health, labor and
 public administration, that have not been quantified at this stage. The investments ineducation will produce
 benefits interms o f greater secondary school enrolment, improvedlearning outcomes and a higher stock o f
  human capital. The health interventions will improve social well-being by increasing access to treatment
  and reducing the diseaseburden of a variety o f non-communicable diseases. The investments inreducing
  labor market imperfections will decrease the cost and duration o fjob search. Andthe development o f local
 public administration will improve social well-being on the outer atolls by improving access to a wide
  variety ofpublic services. The full rangeofthese potentialeconomic benefits will be measured during
  project implementation, as outlined in the monitoring and evaluation framework inAnnex 11.

  2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
 NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
 Not applicable

  Fiscal Impact:

  The project will have a strongly beneficial impact on the government budget. The direct net fiscal benefit
  o f the project will be about US$375,000 per year, at a conservative estimate. Increased imports, resulting
  from higher employment andgrowth will generate, inthe most conservative scenario, revenues o f about
 USD250,000 dollars peryear through the import tax. Reducedtreatment costs for non-communicable
  diseases, and savings from community managed localpublic services andconcentrating secondary
  education on focus islands will decreasepublic expenditures, again at a conservative estimate, by a further
 US$485,000 per year. Against this, the government will incur additional operating expenses for higher
 bandwidth connectivity, project management andjob centers o f about US$360,000 per year. The difference
 betweenpositive and negative fiscal impacts amount to US$370,000 annually.

 Giventhe positive fiscal effect o f the project, the financial sustainability o fproject investments is strong.
 The additional revenue available to the government as aresult o fhigher importtax income andpublic
 expenditure savings ineducation, healthand community services, will enable it to reinvest resourcesinthe
 focus atolls, when needed.




                                                             - 1 7 -

3. Technical:
a. None

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The project implementationwill be coordinated by a specialunit reportingto the Minister of Education.
Implementationwill be done by line Ministries andthe responsibilities are outlined below.



               Component                           Responsible                     Sumort UnitsIAaencies
 I.StrengthenEducationServices           Director of E-section (Policy,    Planning Projects Statistics and
         I
 Delivery                                Planningand Research),            Technology Services o f MOE;
                                         MinistryofEducation(MOE)          ESQIS; EDC; G-SectionMinistry
                                                                           o f Education; PMC
a. School rationalization                 School Administration Section     Physical Facilities Development
                                         (A-Section) of MOE                 Section (G-Section); Human
                                                                            ResourceManagement Section
                                                                            (D-Section) MOE; PMC
 b. Teacher Centers                      Educational Development            Physical Facilities Development
                                         Center (EDC)                       Section (G-Section); Human
                                                                            Resource Management Section
                                                                            (D-Section) MOE; PMC
c. Internet Support for Teachers                                            Educational Technology Unit o f
                                                                            EDC; IT Services Section o f MOE;
                                                                            HumanResourceManagement

~                                                                           Section (D-Section) MOE; PMC
d. Residental LearningCenters            Physics Facilities                 Policy, Planningand Research
                                         Development Section                Section (E-Section);
                                          (G-Section)                       PMC
z. Multi-grade teaching-
          -                               Education Development             PMC
                                          Center, (EDC)
f. ResearchandEvaluationofLearning        Education Supervision and         HumanResourceManagement
Outcomes                                  Quality Improvement Section       Section (D-Section) MOE;
                                          (ESQIS)                           PMC
 11. Strengthen Health Services           MinistryofHealth (MOH)            Project Management Unit(PMC) o
 Delivery                                                                   M O H
a. Nutritionpromotion                    Nutrition Section of               Community Based Organizations
                                          Department o f Public Health      (CBOs). The Faculty o f Health
                                                                            Science (FHS); HumanResources
                                                                            Section (HRS) o f MOH; PMC
b. Telemedicine                           Hospital Services Section o f     Planning Section (PS) of MOH,
                                          MOH                               IGMH,the Atoll Hospital inLh,
                                                                            Naifaru, the Regional Hospital in
                                                                            L.Gan, Naifaru Island office and
                                                                            Gan Isand Office; and PMC
c. Staff development o f Atoll/ Regional  Hospital heads on the atolls      MOHHQto provide on-line



                                                 -18-

lspital Staff                                                      Drograms and material.            I
Zommunity Pharmacies
.Strengthen                           Community groups             Sutmort from MOH
                                                                                                       ~




               Employment Services    Labour Management            EmploymentServices Section;
                                      Actualization Section(LMA),  Labor Section;
                                      MinistryofEmploymentand      PMC
                                      Labor (MEL)
Establishing Job CenterProgram        LMA                          InformationCopmmunication
                                                                   Technolog Sectionof MEL;
                                                                   Ministry of Atolls Development;
                                                                   PMC
  Implementing Job Center Program     IDCs, Secondary Schools,     LMA; PMC
                                      Employers'associations;
SustainingJob Center Program          LMA                          lob Centers; PMC
  Extensionof Micro-Finance           Ministry of Atolls           PMC

.Strengthen                           Development
               Community Services     PlanningandProject Section   Ministry of Construction and Public
                                      MinistryofAtolls             Works;
                                      Development                  Ministry of Communication,
                                                                    Science and Technology
                                                                    PMC
  Multi-purpose Buildings             Ministry of Atolls Dvelopment Atoll DevelopmentCommittee
                                      (MoAD)                        (ADCs) and IDCs; PMC
   Support to IDCs, WDCs, and ICs     Ministry of Atolls Dvelopment Atoll DevelopmentCommittee
                                                                    (ADCs), WemanDevelopment
                                                                    Committee(WDCs) and(Island
                                                                    Cooperatives (ICs); PMC
   Broadbandnetworks                  National Center for           Ministry of Atolls Dvelopment ;
                                      Information Technology        PMC
                                       (NCIT), Ministry of
                                       Communication, Science and
                                      Technology (MCST)
~~
ProjectMonitoring and Evaluation       PMC                          MOE, MOH, MoAD; MEL;
                                                                    Ministry of Planning andNational
                                                                    Development(MPND); Ministry of
                                                                    Communications, Science &
                                                                    Technology;
                                                                    Ministrvof FinanceandTreasure
  Technical Assistance                 PMC                         All ImplementatingAgencies
  Monitoring and evaluationfor project PMC                          All ImplementatingAgencies
uts andoutcomes
  Staff Training and Support          PMC                           All implementatingAgencies
.cilities.




                                              - 1 9 -

4.2 Project management:
The design and implementationofthe project is the responsibility ofthe responsible line Ministries. Each
participating line ministrywould have prime responsibility for policy making, strategy formulation,
development o f terms o freference, production o f technical specifications, assessment o fproposals andbid
evaluations for their own components. The Ministryo f Education (MOE) i s expected to play a coordinating
role. The Project ImplementationUnit is beingre-structured as a Project Management Unit (PMC) which
manages current IDA fundedprojects would carry out project day-to-day coordinationand implementation
activities. The generic procurement and disbursementactivity would be implementedby the PMC. In
addition, the PMC is responsible for project managementfunctions, including project accounting,
procurement, disbursements, consolidation o f quarterly and semi-annual project management reports,
annual work programs andbudgets, and updating o fprocurement plans.

The PMC i s currently staffed with ten persons, including an acting project director, fellowship
administrator, three finance and accounts staff, three procurement staff, one repayment staff and one
general administrative staff. However, it has been envisagedthat extra staff positions would be neededas
the project becomes operational. These includes a Civil Work Consultant, Procurement Advisor, Legal
Advisor, and other project staff as needed.

4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was undertakenbefore appraisal. The results are summarized inAnnex 6 (A).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The primary responsibility for financial managementwill be that o fthe Project Management Unit(PMC).
The financialmanagement systems established at the PMC has beenreviewedby the Bank Financial
Management Specialist and found satisfactory to the Bank under OPiBP 10.02. This systemwith minor
modifications will be able to provide, with reasonableassurance, accurateandtimely information on the
financial operations o f the project.

5. Environmental:                           EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Inaccordancewith the Maldives' policy to protect its environmental resourcesandthe project's
development objective to improve social service provision andeconomic opportunities ina selected
ecologically viable focus islandineach o f four identifiedatolls, any environmental issues that may arise
from project activities will be addressedin a comprehensive manner duringimplementation. Possible
environmental impacts resultingfrom this project are not likely to be significant and/or irreversible. The
likely impacts that canbe identified at this stage are reversible andcan be easily mitigated.  Considering
that specific activities and exact locations cannot be identifieddue to the demand driven nature o f the
project a specific environmental assessment cannot be undertaken at this stage. Therefore, an
Environmental Report detailing the prevailing environmental conditions inthe Maldives and an
EnvironmentalAssessment and Management Framework (the Framework) has beenprepared. This
Frameworkwill serve as a template to conduct activity specific environmental assessments and/or
environmental management plans (EMP) prior to implementationo f sub-projects. Public consultations
were heldduring the preparation o f the Framework. There will be no land acquisition or resettlement under
this project. All land identified for potential construction work i s unencumbered state owned land.

The EducationServices Delivery Component may include construction associatedwith expanding


                                                      - 20 -

educational facilities such as IT centers, science labs, multipurposerooms, library resource centers and
residential learning centers on the focus islands. Construction infragile ecosystemsas inthe Maldives
demands close attention to the potential environmental impacts. Inthis regard, proper site selection for
constructionactivities i s essential. The Framework stipulates site selection criteria that ensures that
environmentally sensitive sites will be not be eligible for funding underthe project. The Framework also
describes how construction material, debris disposal, sewage and solid waste arisingfrom civil works
proposed under the project should be addressedthrough sub-project specific EMPs.

The Health Services Delivery Component of the project proposes to improve the quality o f health
services o f the focus islands by nutrientpromotion, community operated pharmacies, training o fhealth
service personnel, accessingtelemedicine and development andimplementation of standardtreatment
protocols. An integral aspect of improving health care services is to ensure proper systems are inplace to
manage health care waste inan environmentally acceptablemanner. As there is no proper health care
waste management inthe Maldives at the present time, the project will assist the Ministryo f Home Affairs
andEnvironment (MHAE) to develop aNational Health Care Waste Management Policy and Guidelines
that can be implemented at the hospital level.

The Employment Services Component will support entrepreneurialism, promote small businesses and
foment economic growth on the focus islands. Considering the demanddriven nature o f this component,
sub-projects to be financed under this component are not yet defined. The Framework has outlined a
procedure to be followed to identify sub-project specific environmental impacts and developed guidelines
for preparation o f EMPs to mitigate any potential environmental issues, prior to any fund disbursements.
Consideringthat the magnitude of these projects are very small, it is not anticipated that there will be any
significant environmental issues that will arise from this component.

The Community Services Component proposesto increasethe effectiveness with which resources are
used infocus islands through community leadership and management. Potential environmental issues may
arise ifcommunities plan to manage sanitation systems, solid waste management, water supply systems and
public transport systems, unless proper capacity exists within the community organizations. Since these
are small scale community basedsystems, it i s most unlikely that there will be any significant andor
irreversible environmental impacts. Community organizations will be provided with training programs to
increaseenvironmental awareness andhow to effectively manage community services with minimal adverse
environmental impacts. The Framework already prepared has guidelines on how sub-activity specific
EMPs should be prepared, as well as already prepared environmentalcodes o f practice for such community
services. As has been the practice, MHAEwill assist communities with addressingpotential environmental
issues either directly or through the Atoll Offices, ifrequired.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

Considering the demand driven nature o f the project's activities, a project specific environmental
assessment cannot be conducted. Hence, an Environmental Management Framework has been prepared.
The Framework provides detailed guidelines for preparation o f sub-project specific EMPs. The
Framework identifies potential activities that may be supported underthe project and identifies possible
environmental issues that may arise. It also includes codes o fpractice which will enable effective
mitigation o f possible environmental issues. The guidelines provided inthe Framework for preparation o f
the EMP is adequatefor effective mitigation o f any adverse environmental impact that may arise as a result
o fproject activities. Since virtually all project activities are so small inmagnitude, it falls below the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) threshold required under the Environmental Preservation and
Protection Act o f the Maldives. Therefore, EIA are not required for any o f the activities financed under the
project. Regardlessto not having a legislative requirement, the Government has decided to prepare EMPs


                                                       -21  -

inaccordancewith the Frameworkfor all sub-projects that may haveany potentialfor adverse
environmental impacts. The first two EMPs o f each type of sub-project will be reviewed by the Bank, to
ensure that the quality o f the EMP adheres to the guidelines specified inthe Framework. This is
pre-requisite to fund disbursement for the sub-projects. Thereafter, all EMPs will be reviewedby the PMC
and will be subject to post review by the Bank during implementation.
5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: March 15, 2004

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Since the project proposes to have communities playing a leadrole inthe design and implementationo f the
project, stakeholder consultations are inbuiltto the project design. Duringthe preparation o f the
Framework, specific stakeholder consultations were held. The results o f these consultations revealed strong
support for the project design. When sub-project specific EMPs are being prepared the community and
other stakeholderswill be consulted with through meetings and community discussions.
5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablishedto monitor and evaluatethe impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o fthe EMP?
Considering the fragile ecosystems o f the Maldives, it is essentialthat mechanisms are inbuilt inthe project
design to monitor and measure the projects impacts on the environment. Inaddition to MHAEundertaking
routine environmental monitoring, the project will use extensive community basedmonitoring o f
environmental parameters. Communities will be trained underthe project on simple but effective
environmental monitoringprocedures. Specific environmental indicators will be identified duringthe
preparation o f sub-project specific EMPs ina manner to ensure that the indicators reflect the objectives and
results o f the EMP. The Bank will review the monitoring indicators developed for the first two EMPs for
each category o f sub-projects.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social development objectives o fthe project are to promote economic and social development
o f the beneficiary populationby improvingtheir level o f education, andhealth, increasing
employment opportunities, and building their capacity to coordinate and manage community
services, thereby increasing the well-being o f the beneficiaries, including o fthe poor and
vulnerable within the project area. The project will also ensure social and gender equity in
distribution o fproject benefits by: (i) into consideration needs andpriorities o f both male
                                         taking
andfemale populations; (ii)   promoting affordable and I or easy access to various programs to
both male and female beneficiaries; and (iii)    establishing a monitoring and evaluation strategy
which ensures by identifyingand developing a database on the impact o fproposed activities on
both genders.

The Beneficiary ImpactAssessment (BIA) was carriedout inBaa Atoll (north central Maldives) and Lamu
Atoll (south central Maldives), which are two out o f the total four atolls included under the project. The
focus islands includedwere Eydhafushi inBaa Atoll and Gan inLamu Atoll. The primary islands included
were: Kudarikilu, Kamadhoo, Kihaadhoo and Dhonfanu inBaa Atoll andKunahandhoo, Gaadhoo,
Hithadhoo and Maamendhoo inLamuAtoll.



                                                       - 22 -

All the primary islands covered underthe BIA hadschools that went upto the 7thgrade, while 8th grade
andabove are available only on focus islands.As aresult, many students from primary islands had to
either stop their studies or move elsewhere. The school quality on the focus islands were perceived to be
significantly better than on the primary islands by both residents o fprimary islands and residents o f focus
islands. Children from primary schools didtravel to focus islands for their education but parentsreported
many constraints to their effective schooling on focus islands. One o f the key constraints is found to be
housing for their children on the focus islands. Children studying on focus islands, currently stay with
families to whom they paid lodging charges, who inadditionto the monetary charges, demand help with
housework specially from girl students. This adversely affects the girls performance in schools. Therefore,
many primary island parents are reluctant to sendtheir girls to the focus islands to stay with host families.
However, they are willing to sendtheir girls for education to focus islands, ifisland houses (as planned
underthe project) were made available. The parents are also willing to share inthe cost ofmanagingthese
houses.

There i s no gender and age disparity inavailing treatment for both common illnesses and
emergency health conditions within households. Health care services inthe primary islands were
perceived to be significantly worse than those found on focus islands. Among the primaryisland
populations, the type o f illness determined the choice o f the category of health facility and
personnel. Inthe case o f health emergencies, unavailability o f affordable and timely transport
(speed boats, land ambulance services) was identified as the biggest constraint to move patients to
the hospitals.The transport cost problem is compounded by infrequent services. This inturnforce people
to rent boats during emergenciespaying a much higher cost than the already existing hightransport prices.
The transport issue was cited as a major constraint inaccessinghealth care by 89% o f those interviewedon
primary islands inBaaAtoll andby 79% inLamuAtoll. The focus islandresidents reported that they had
access to all health services on their own islands and were generally satisfied.

The quality o f education, health services and employment opportunities are identifiedas the three major
reasonswhich would motivate primary islandpopulationto move to the focus island.However, the
willingness to move from primary islands to focus islands vaned regionally. There was a greater
willingness to move from primary islands to the Focus IslandinBaa Atoll than inLamu Atoll. The
population on primary islands inLamuperceived their economic opportunities on the primary islandto be
better than the population on primary islands inBaa atoll. Despite the difference inthe willingness to
move, the current frequency andreasons for movement from primary islands to focus islands inboth
regions were found to be similar.

People inboth atolls confirmed that they traveled to focus islands mainly for educational requirements for
their children or for themselves, andor for employment reasons, and/or to access health facilities. With
regards to gender disparity, it was noted that the number of women andtheir frequency o ftravel to focus
islandswas lower thanthe number ofmen, as women normally traveled to focus islands only for health and
social reasons (which are generally, not as frequenthegular as for education/ employment reasons).

The populationwho hadrelocated to focus islands for employment reasons continued to sendcashgifts at
least on a monthly basis to their biological families residingintheir primary islands. The relocated
population also married and established families on focus islands. These individuals, mentionedthat they
traveled to andfro from primary islands to focus islands for social reasons andrepeatedly cited the
unavailability of timely and affordable transportation as a constraint on their movements. It is likely that
people would travel more frequently to focus islands and travel out o fprimary islands for both social and




                                                     - 23 -

economic reasons, iftimely and affordable transport was available.

People cited the lack o fjobs as a major constraint inmoving from primary islands. They welcomed the idea
of improvedjob information systemthrough local "job-centers". Currently, the primary source o f
information on availability ofjobs was the radio, and radios, often didnot announce all availablejobs.
Over 90% o f those interviewedbothon primary and focus islands statedtheir interest inusinga
"job-center'' to help findjobs. Bothprimary and focus islandpopulations, also expressedtheir interest in
the proposedmicro-enterprise initiative, but many o f them had little idea on it actually implied, before the
BIA study team explained the concept to the population.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
A participatory approach willbe followed by the project to ensure the involvement of stakeholdersinall
stages o fproject cycle. Project preparation and implementationinclude the extensive use o f participatory
techniques involving stakeholdersthrough the sharing information, consultation and collaboration leading
to their empowerment. Stakeholdersinclude all individuals and/or groups who are affected by, or can
affect, the proposed actions.

Duringthe preparation of this project appraisal document, incollaborationwith the government agencies,
information was sharedand consultations were carried out with all categories o f stakeholders as part of the
BIAwith gender dimension.

Duringthe implementation ofthe project incollaboration with the government, civil society groups and
NGOs, will promote participationof all categoriesof stakeholdersby undertaking periodic workshops to
share information and support consultation processes.

BIA suggeststhat "Report Cards be usedas,oneofthe monitoring techniqueswithin the overallproject
                                   "
monitoringandevaluation process, inorder to maintain the already established rigor o f participation o f the
stakeholders. These Report Cards will collect the views o fthe male and female beneficiary populations
with regardto the quality, efficiency and adequacy o f the programs. Report cards provide credible and
collective feedback from the public to the service providers, supplying information on users' access,
affordability and satisfaction with specific services. The insightsderived from report cards, ensure that the
issuesraised are continuously addressed, will provide anunderstandingo f the degreeto which the services
are reaching the target groups, the extent o f leakagesand the factors that contribute to such misdirection o f
resources and services. BIA report documents "Filipino citizen report cards onpro-poor sewices " as one
of the good practice examples.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Although the specific involvement o fNGOs andany other civil society organizations has yet to
be determined, it is envisagedthat such organizations could potentially be involved intwo areas:

           (a)   as stakeholdersto share information andparticipate inconsultations duringthe
                 preparation o fproject programs and activities;

           (b)   as potential collaborativepartners inthe project's initiatives to involve local
                 populations duringthe implementation andmonitoring andevaluation stages of
                 the project.



                                                     - 24 -

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been providedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The IslandDevelopment Committee which is an inclusivebody will play a key role inmanaging project
financed assets.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
While mechanisms to monitor social development outcomesare yet to be determinedat this stage, BIA
suggests that Report Cards be used as one o f the mechanisms to monitor and measure social development
outcomes among both male and female beneficiary populations.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

The Republic ofMaldives has very strict environmental laws which are enforced strictly as the
country's economy is dependenton tourism which is directly tiedto the country's pristine ecology.
Duringproject preparation, anEnvironmentalAssessmentwillbeundertakenwhich will evaluate
the environmental and social impacts o fthe project andmake recommendations on how to ensure
compliance with the environmental laws of the Republic of Maldives and the World Bank's
environmental safeguardpolicies. These will be contained inthe EMP.

As part ofthe environment assessmentthe borrower should develop:

(i)     a simple environmental screening framework to avoid funding sub-projects that are likely
        to have significant and irreversible impacts;

(ii)    a standardEnvironment Codes o f Practice (ECOP) for:


                (a)      site selection for construction o f new facilities;

                (b)       health care waste management;

                (c)      construction waste management; and

                (d)      sub-projects to be funded underthe economic growth through market-based
                         imployment-generationinitiativescomponent that are likely to have major
                         environmental impacts.




                                                    - 25 -

(iii)taskstosupportcapacitybuildingimplementation,budgetandimpactmonitoringarrangements.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project, which aims to consolidate public services provision inselectedfocus islands, is more
sustainable than the current approach o fproviding all services on almost all islands. By creating
regional growth poles, the economy may deepenandcreate more tax revenues to finance services.
It should also be notedthat despite the country's overall very low population density, some
islands have become overcrowded andunsustainable.Infact, one islandhas over 5,000 people on
ten hectares. It i s therefore crucial to establishplaces that are attractive enough to encourage
voluntary migration.

The longterm fiscal1sustainability ofmost ofthe project is assuredby the following: (a) the
costs o f secondary education would rise evenhigher without the focus islandprogram; (b) the
health interventions have a negligiblerecurrent cost impact; (c) the employment servicesprogram
has a minor recurrent cost impact; and (d) the community services are financially self-sustaining.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                          Risk Rating                     Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
People preferusingservices inthe capital                H              There i s a need to assure that the quality of
area which has been the primemagnet for                                services in the regional centers is high and that
migrants from all over the Maldives rather                            'thetransactions related costs of usingservices in
than to the service centers on focus                                   the focus island is less than that inthe capital.
islands.
People may be relocated to focus islands                M              This risk is mitigated by the fact that many
against their will                                                     islands have requested relocation as part o f a
                                                                       voluntary government program.
Improvingservices on focus islands will                 M              The focus island strategy i s being accompanied
come at the cost reduced services on the                               by a strategy to improve primary education and
primary islands.                                                       health services on the primary islands. The
                                                                       focus islands will ha\.e improved secondary
                                                                       level facilities.
From Components to Outputs
Better trained teachers do not improve                  N              Assure teachers are present and have access to
school quality.                                                        appropriate pedagogic materials.
Better I T skills do not encouragemore use               S             Demonstration campaigns to show user
o f distance learning.                                                 friendliness o f distance learningandthe
                                                                       availability o f appropriate and quality programs
                                                                       through distant leaming.
Availability o f home islandmanaged                      S             Assure quality o f teaching and programs on
housing and transport cost stipends does                               focus island. Manage student houses inan user
not encourage students to attend schools                               friendlymanner.
on focus islands.
Overall Risk Rating                                      S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris , M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)

i

     3. PossibleControversial Aspects:


     G. Main Loan Conditions
     1. EffcctivcncssCondition



     1. Otlicr [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
     PlU \vi11 ensure that throughout the project period a satisfactor): financial management systetn is
     maintained.
     Submit to the IDA audited annual financial statements o f the project no later than June 30 o f the
     following fiscal year.
     Produce FMRs and submit to the IDA no later than 45 days following the end of the first
     reporting quarter after project Effectiveness.

     H. Readiness for Implementation
     0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirst year'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
              o f project implementation.
     H1.b)Notapplicable.

     [xi 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
            project implementation.
         3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
            quality.
        4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



     I. Compliance with Bank Policies
                                                                                  1,
     [xi 1. Thisproject complies with all applicable Bank policies.
        2. The following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
            all other applicable Bank policies.




                                            .' Sector ManagerlDirector




                                                        - 27 -

                                      Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                             MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project
                                      Key Performance            DataCollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                           CriticalAssumptions
sector-relatedCAS Goal:         Sector Indicators:              Sector1country reports:        from Goal to Bank Mission)
)evelop economically,           Population from other islands Censuses every five years        :he growthpoles will produce
ocially and environmentally     attracted to these new          track population movements.    conomic opportunities and
,ustainable growth poles in     long-term environmentally       Compare intercensal            educe poverty.
lifferent parts o f the country sustainable growthpoles         population trend to natural
utside the Male region.         because o fbetter economic      growth predictedby vital
                                opportunities and better        registration to assess
                                services..                      in-migration.



'roject Development             Outcome IImpact                 Project reports:               from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                      Indicators:
:he project development         1.      Improved quality        Baseline data developed using 'eople are willing to use
)bjectivesare to improve        secondary education on the      the existing data, Census      iervices in regional centers as
ocial services and promote      selected islands attracting     2005, HouseholdIncome and       Lsubstitute to the capital area
:conomic opportunities on       students from other islands.    Expenditure Survey (HIES)      vhich has been the prime
elected ecologically viable     2.      Better quality health   2003, Poverty Vulnerability    nagnet for Maldives
ocus islands in four atolls.    and nutrition services on the   (VPA) Survey 2004 and
                                selected islands                Multiple Indicator Cluster
                                3.      Access to quality       (MICS) Survey 2001. Special
                                employment services which       Follow-up survey on focus
                                reduces time needed to find     islands in2008. New round o f
                                jobs.                           Census, HIES, VPA and
                                Better facilities and           MICS around 2009-2010.
                                opportunities for CBOs on       Project progress reports.
                                focus islands .




htput from each                 Output Indicators:              Project reports:                from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
itrengthen education            Increase in secondary (grade    Ministryof Educationreports    3etter facilities and teaching
ervices including the           8-10) enrolments on focus       school attendance by location  pality on focus island school5
ollowing activities: (1) school islands by 25% by               and island o f origin          :including residential learning
ationalization on project       end-of-proj ect.                                               :enters) will attract students
itolls through concentrating    Female students account for at MIS progress reports            'rom other islands and
econdary schools on focus       least 40% o f the student       generated at focus island level mprove learning outcomes.
slands., (2) teacher centers on residents inthe Residential
ocus islands to improve         Learning Centers on the four    Beneficiary assessments
:ducation quality on the        focus islands by                conducted once in2 years
iroject atolls; (3) residential end-of-project..
earning centers to facilitate   Reduction in the gender gap
econdary studies on focus       in0-level pass rates on focus
slands for those from other     islands by 25% by



                                                           - 28 -

islands; and (4) assess         md-of-proj ect.
learning outcomes.

Strengthen health and            ncrease from zero to 50% in vIinistry o f Health reports on   Better health services and
nutrition services by:           he use o f Standard Treatment kcility use.                    availability o f medicines
(1)Rationalize care for          'rotocols on Focus Island      STP compliance rate            will attract patients from
Non-Communicable Diseases       lospitals by end-of-project..   neasuredby prescription        other islands.
(a) standard treatment           <educethe number o f           iudits.                        Community pharmacies
protocols and standard          :hildren showing faltering      3eneficiary assessments        can be financially
operating procedures, (b)       yowth duringweaning period :onducted once in 2 years           sustainable.
telemedicine and (c) increasec   6 to 12 months) by 30% on       ndividual growth charts &     Nutrition promotions
use generic medicines; and:     he focus islands by end o f     Writion Information system     improves nutrition status
(2) Nutritionpromotion on       Iroject.                        'eports from Focus Islands     o f children.
focus islands.
Strengthen Employment           <eductioninjob search           3aseline, midterm and close    The outer atolls
services including the           vaiting time on focus islands  Ifproject survey ofjob-search  development strategy in
following activities: (1)       )y20% by end-of-project.        ime and costs.                 through better
job-centers to helpjob seekers                                  Ceports from Job-centers and   infrastructure and new
findjobs through career                                         he micro-finance programs.     resorts results in
counseling, jib-matching and                                                                   job-opportunities.
teaching labor market and                                                                      Job Matching Service
job-search skills, and (2)                                                                     functions well.
access to micro-finance                                                                        Micro-enterprises have a
services.                                                                                      market.

Strengthen community             !O% increase in number or      ieports from Ministryo f       Internet connection rates
services through: (1) capacity  ralue o f local development     $tolls Development.            will decrease over time
buildingfor CBOs; (2) grants    nitiatives undertakenby         ;acility user surveys.         once the legal monopoly
for CBO led activities; (3)     :BOs on focus islands by                                        i s eliminated at then end
improve communications          nd-of-project.                                                 o f 2006 allowing the ICT
through establishment o f                                                                      access to continue past
focus islands broadband                                                                        project period.
network; and (4)
multi-purpose buildings.

Effective monitoring and        ;unctioning M&E system          'roject reports
evaluation o fproject activities
through: (I) MIS; (b) studies
and surveys; and (3)
participatory monitoring.




                                                           - 29 -

I                                                          Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I          nputs: (budget for each      Jrojectreports:          from Components to
Sub-components:               :omponent)                                            )utputs)
StrengthendEducation          i8.6 million
Services
(1) school rationalization                    $3.O million
(2) teacher centers                           $1.5 million
(3) residential learning; and                 $3.8 million
(4) assess learning outcomes.                 $0.3 million

StrengthendHealthServices     i2.2 million
                                              $1.4 million
(1) Rationalizing care for
non-communicable diseases                     $0.8 million
(2) Nutrition Promotion

StrengthenEmployment          i1.3 million
Services
(1) Job-Centers                               $1.O million
(2) Micro-finance                             $0.3 million

StrengthenCommunity           i3.6 million
Services
(1) Capacity Support to CBOs                  $0.3 million
(2) Grants to CBOs                            $0.4 million
(3) Island Broad Band                         $1.2 million
Network
(4) Multipurpose Buildings                    $1.7 million

ProjectMonitoringand          i1.2 million
Evaluation
(1) MIS
(2) Surveysand Evaluation                     $0.3 million
(3) Participatory Monitoring                  $0.6 million
(4) Capacity Building for                     $0.2million
Ministry of Finance and                       $0.1 million
Treasury for M&E

StrengthenProject             i1.65 million
Management




                                                       -30 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                         MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project

By Component:

Project Component 1. Strengthen Education Services Delivery US$8.10 million
                                                                  -

This component has the following three objectives:

      (a)  Enhancing cost-effective access to secondary education inthe outer atolls by: (i) implementinga
            school rationalization framework that concentrates secondary schools on focus islands, and (ii)
           establishingcommunity managedresidential learningcentersto enable studentsfrom primary
           islands to live on focus islands and attend school;

      (b) Increasing learningoutcomes on focus atolls by: (i)    improving teacher capabilities and skills, (ii)
           raising the quality o f school leadership and administration; (iii)
                                                                            expanding education facilities
            such as IT centers, science laboratories, multi-purpose rooms and library resource centers; and
            (iv) increasing the supply ofteaching material and learningresources; and

      (c)  Creating a basis for objective, evidence basedpolicy formulation through regularassessmentso f
            student learning outcomes.

Sub-component la.          Expandingaccess to secondary education.

This sub-component will expandthe access to secondary education cost-effectively through a school
rationalizationprogram and the construction o f residential learning centers on focus islands. Establishing
secondarygrades inall primary islands will entail large set-up costs and highoperating expenses. In
contrast, rationalizing secondary schools and concentrating grades 8- 10 on focus islands will enable GOM
to develop highquality secondary schools with reasonableclass sizes, well-trained principals and teachers,
andgood facilities and equipment.The residential learning centerswill provide a sound learning
environment, after school hours, for secondary level students from primary islands who needto live on the
focus islands to attend school. The learning centers will be managed by primary island communities. The
students will live inthese learning centers, which will be equippedwith live-in quarters andmulti-purpose
community facilities to encourageinteractionwith the focus island community and students from other
primary islands. The centerswill also contain living facilities for individuals from primary islands inneed
o f short-term out-patient health care on the focus islands. The project will support construction, furnishing
and equippingo f these residential learning centers. Inaddition, the project will assist indeveloping the
managerial and administrative capacity o f primary island communities to operate these centers.

Sub-component lb.          Enhancingthe quality of secondaryeducation.

A strategic range of investments will enhancethe quality of education on focus atolls. This subcomponent
will improve theprofessional capacity o feducation staffby: (a) upgrading subject content knowledge,
pedagogical skills and classroom practices o f teachers; (b) improving school leadership and management
capabilities o fprincipals, headmasters and head mistresses; and (c) raising the skills o f education
administrators. The project will support professional, academic andmanagement training through a
combination o fregular, on-site internet based courses on primary islands and face-to-face training
programs on focus islands.




                                                      -31 -

The capital stock o f education facilities, teaching material and learningresourceswill be expanded to
ensure a highquality learningenvironment inschools. On each focus islandthe project will establish:


        (a)      an Information and Communications Technology (ICT) center for students, with
                 computers, associatedperipherals and educational software;

        (b)      an ICT center for teachers, with computers and associatedperipherals, internet access, and
                 teaching software;


        (c)      a fully equipped science laboratory;

        (d)      a fully equippedschool library;

        (e)      multi-purpose activity rooms; and

        (f)      the extra classroomsandclass furniture requiredto enroll secondary students flowing in
                 from the primary islands.

Sub-component IC.Whole SchoolAssessments

The objective o f this sub-component is to:


        (a)      measurelearninglevels on the focus islands relative to the rest of the country;

        (b)      trace the evolution o f learning outcomes, over time, on the focus;


        (c)      obtain objective information on school and studentperformance for policy analysis and
                 strategy formulation;

        (d)      assess quality o f teaching;


        (e)      assess quality o f school management;


        (f)      assess effectiveness o f in-service training.

The sub-component willbe implemented by ESQIS. The project will support researchand evaluation by
providingresourcesto buildcapacity inGOM to measure learning outcomes and analyze causal factors,
andto conduct andpublishstudies and evaluations on learningoutcomes.

Project Component 2. Strengthen Health Services Delivery US$2.10 million
                                                               -
This component has the following two objectives:

         (a)    Rationalizingcare for non-communicablediseasesthrough support for ongoing
                prevention programs, establishing standard treatment protocols for risk factor
                management, training staff inprotocol use and monitoring, improving access to specialist
                services for focus islandresidents through telemedicine, andincreasing access to essential
                medicines at low cost;



                                                      - 32 -

          (b)     Enhancingsupport for nutritionpromotionto address the widespread problem of child
                  malnutrition through the communication o f strategic behavioral changes, improved
                  nutrition surveillance, and wider use o f locally relevant complementary foods.

Sub-component2a.           Rationalizingcare for non-communicablediseases.

The Ministry ofHealthi s rationalizing its strategy to address non-communicable diseasesby emphasizing
prevention, risk factor management and access to specialist services. The inputs from this sub-component,
identifiedbelow are integratedwith this overall framework.

Primary Prevention. The GOM i s currently implementinga primary preventionprogramto control
NCD's. Under this program community health workers promote awareness o f healthy lifestyles, including
good dietary habits, exercise and smoking cessation. As a result o f this program, between 1997 and 2001,
the prevalence oftobacco use declined among males from 57% to 37% and among females from 29% to
15%. A follow up prevalence study for NCDs is currently inprogress inMa16. The project will support
information campaigns.

Improving quality of care. Standardizing the quality o f care i s important for comprehensive risk factor
management of NCDs, such as hypertension, diabetes and heart disease, usinga combination o f diet,
exercise, self care and treatment. Such standards are available andunder use for managing communicable
diseases inthe Maldives. This sub-component will support development o f Standard Treatment Protocols
(STPs) to improve quality o f care for NCDs. Project assistancewill include a 30 day consultancy to
develop STPs through a consultative process involving local specialists, andtrain master trainers at the
IGMH. Team training to disseminate guidelineswillbe organized for doctors andnurses onthe four focus
islandsusingmaster trainers. STPs will also rationalizepharmaceutical usage. A prescription audit will be
undertaken periodically to assess compliance with STPs.

Enhancing access to specialist services through telemedicine. The telemedicine pilot aims at improving
access to specialist services for the residents o f focus islands. This, intum, will help atoll residents to save
travel costs and reduce overcrowding at IGMH.The pilot proposes to linkthe atoll hospital onNaifaruand
the regional hospital on L.Ganwith IGMH.A comprehensive consultancy report has been prepared which
addresses severalkey operational constraints experienced by similar initiatives inthe past. Firstly, five well
articulated initiation tasks have beenidentified. Secondly, a strong analytical component has beenbuiltinto
the proposal for concurrent and post-implementationevaluation. Thirdly, a social awareness consultancy is
proposed to suggest strategies for improvingpublic awarenessand generating demandfor telemedicine
services. Fourthly, one medical officer at IGMHwill be made accountable for organizing specialist
consultation round the clock, andprovide feedback to the referring site.

This subcomponentwill also support continuing medical education for health staff based at atollh-egional
hospitals through internet-based learning and video conferencing. Analytical work linkedto the pilot can
also help to quantify these benefits. Potentialrisks include ensuring adequate coordinationbetween different
agencies involved, and sustaining the motivation o f specialists at IGMH. To address these risks, a senior
coordinator is proposed at the IGMHlevel to motivate the specialists andprovide regular oversight for the
entire operation. Inaddition, complementary initiatives such as linking IGMHspecialists with expert
institutions outside the Maldives are considered to sustain the interest o f health specialists.


Improving access to essential drugs. To improve access to andavailability o f essential drugs,


                                                       -33   -

self-sustaining community pharmacies are proposedunder the community services component of the
project. Assistance will be provided to existingcommunity groups to form cooperatives to runthe
pharmacy. This subcomponent will support the training o f a pharmacist and start up costs for 6 months.
Promoting the use o f generic drugs and training inrationalprescription behaviors will help to reduce out o f
pocket expenses on health.

Sub-component 2b. Enhancing support for nutrition promotion.

This sub-component aims to reduce highchildhoodmalnutrition on focus atolls by promotingbetter
nutritionmonitoring and improving child nutrition practices among mothers. It will help strengthen growth
monitoring o funder-five childrenby buildingcapacity among family health workers and householdson the
focus atolls to analyze andinterpret growth charts, identifythe causes o fmalnutrition, and take locally
relevant actions. Inaddition, a food and nutrition information systemwill be set up at the focus islandlevel
and graduate training promoted at the national level.

The activities proposed to improve household child nutrition behavior have a strong emphasis on locally
relevant recipes for complementary feeding. The project supports awarenesscreation o f the value of breast
feeding and desirable child feeding practices during illness.

Project Component 3. Strengthen Employment Services US$ 1.00 million
                                                           -

This component has the following two objectives

         (a)     support cost effective job information andjob counseling services through job centers
                 to reducejob searchdurations and costs by improving the information flow on employment
                 opportunities to job seekers, and improve the capabilities o f fresh school completers to
                 enter the world o f work; and


         (b)      increase access to micro-finance programs to increase income eaming opportunities for,
                 especially women, through linkingindividuals to opportunities for micro-enterprise
                 development.

Sub-component 3a. Job counselinglinformation services (job centers )

Thejob centerswill perform the following important functions:

                 1.      Provide information onjobs available throughout the country;

                 ii. Furnishcareerandemploymentcounseling;and
                 ...
                 111.    Provide a business center.

Thejob centerswill linkindividuals to an island wide employment information network inorder to reduce
information imperfections inthe labor market.The network to be developed under this subcomponent will
provide on-line data on: (i)employment opportunities inthe country, and (b) the bio-data o fjob seekers.
This network will improve the flow o finformation on the demandand supplyo femployment opportunities
andimprove the efficiency ofjob matching. The career andemployment counseling services will help
individuals improve their preparation for the world o f work, including guidingthem on relevant educational
and training courses and the type o f skills requiredfor differenttypes o f vocations. Business centerswill



                                                     - 34 -

provide information on business opportunities, facilitate the administrative processes o f registering small
andmicro-businesses, and give guidance on the operational aspects of setting up andrunningbusinesses.

Sub-component3b increaseAccessto Micro-finance services.

Micro-finance i s currently available inthe Maldives through the South Asia Poverty Alleviation Project
(SAPAP), funded inequal shares by the UNDP, G O M and atoll communities. This sub-component will
facilitate entrepreneurship development by helpingindividuals access microfinance services, already
provided by the SAPAP system, through: (a) providing application and selection forms with eligibility
criteria; (b) receiving applications; (c) selecting applications according to the eligibility criteria; (d) signing
loan agreements, with contractual conditions and obligations, credit limits,interest charges, security and
term o f loan; and (e) collection. The SAPAP project funds micro-enterprises in a variety o f sectors,
includingfishprocessing, buildingfishingboats, agriculture, poultry, construction materials, commercial
construction, carpentry, masonry, sewing, embroidery, teashops, cafks, photocopying, retail trade and oil
distribution. Underthe SAPAP system, funds are administered at island level by the IslandDevelopment
Committee (IDC), with executive authority residingina project coordinating committee (PCC), advisedby
a project office. Once the fund is formed, an agreement is signed between the atoll office and IDC inwhich
the IDC acceptsresponsibility for administrative procedures, especially payment and collection. All direct
dealings with the borrower are undertaken by the IDC, while the atoll level operates at one remove via the
IDC. The PCC lends funds wholesale to the IDC, which inturn providesretail loans to individual
borrowers.

Project Component 4. Strengthen Community Services US$3.50 million
                                                             -
This component has the following three objectives:

           (a)     Strengthencapacityofislandbasedcommunitybasedorganizationsto planand
                   deliver services and undertake collective activities that benefit the entire community;

          (b)      Supportthe developmentof multi-purposebuildingsto consolidate the provision of
                   services;


          (c)      Supportthe developmentof broadbandnetworks oneachfocus islandto improve
                   interhtra atoll communication.

Sub-component4a.           Strengthencapacityofislandbasedcommunityorganizations

This sub-component will support island development committees (IDCs), cooperatives and community
groups intwo areas.

 a.      To plan, coordinate andmanage public assets andprovide local govemment services on focus
 islands.At the moment, IDCs contribute successfully to islandwelfare and development throughout the
 atolls, despite the resource-poor environment inwhich they operate. With no budgetary allocations from
 the govemment, IDCs depend on limitedvoluntary contributions anduser fees to finance their activities.
 Consequently, they are severely constrained inaccessing skilledhuman resources. Nevertheless, IDCs
 have proved quite useful throughout the islands, and good IDCs have achieved impressive results. The
 government's strategy o fpopulation consolidationon focus islands requires the role andcapacity o f IDC's
 to be expanded. The project will support training and capacity-building exercises for IDCs, including in
 areas such as accounting andbudgeting, cash flow management, portfolio management, participatory
 planning, atoll administrationand island development.


                                                      - 35 -

b.       To support islandcooperatives and community groups to undertakecollective activities that benefit
the entire community. The project will provide assistance to islandcommunities to identifybusiness
opportunities and services that can be community managed. The project will also provide communities
training on entrepreneurship, management and accounting to efficiently manageexisting businesses, as
well as develop new ones. The project will also support grants, on a matchingbasis, for community
development activities. Eligible CBOs will all be legally constituted grass-roots organizations on a given
island, including the IDC itself. Grants for CBO-led activities will be managedjointly by IDCs andthe
PCC/ADC. Grant applications will consist o f (i)   Technical plans/design; (ii) and (iii)
                                                                               Budget;           Timeline.
Application forms detailing selection criteria and process will be provided by IDCs. Applications will be
collectedby the IDC, andrankedaccording to pre-agreed selection criteria. As for the micro-finance
component, these criteria will be agreedvia discussionsbetween the community, the WDC andthe IDC.
Criteria mustbe communicated upwards to the ADC and MoAD, and approved by the latter. Typical
selection criteria include:


      0 Responsivenessto real localneed
      0  Community commitment to the project (as shown by the counterpart contribution)
      0 Technical design standards
      0  cost
      0 Number o fbeneficiaries
      0  Sustainability
      0 Environmentalimpact
      0 Benefits to disadvantagedvulnerable groups and to women
      0  Priority inthe IDP

The IDC will rank projects by priority and recommendproposals to finance. This information will pass to
the PCC/ADC, which will beresponsible for all final decisions. Upon final selection, a sanction letter will
be sent to the IDC, copied to the borrower. IDCs will then draw up a contract with the respective CBO,
which will be signed by both, registered on the island court, andcopied to the atoll office. A cheque inthe
borrower's name will be drawn up by the PCC from an account heldat the Bank o f Maldives and sent to
the IDC. Disbursementwill be facilitatedby the Bank ofMaldives loanofficer. All subsequent
disbursementswould be provided against receipts for expenditures undertaken. The IDC will monitor
project progress on a regular basis. Disbursements will be suspended ifprogress i s not satisfactory. The
IDC will avail itselfof additional sanctions available to it as and when necessary. Incases where the IDC
i s the borrowing CBO, the loan contract will be signed by the IDC and ADC, the IDC will render
accounts to the ADC, and the PCC/ADC will actively monitor progress. The M o A D will produce
leaflets/pamphlets and posters for general distribution on each focus island explaining the purpose o f the
grant program, selection criteria and how to apply.

Sub-component4b. Consolidateservices in multipurposegovernmentbuildings.

Maldives has a reasonablenetwork o f small local government infrastructure on most islands to meet their
current, basic needs. However, the demand for good quality local public services will expand as the
economy grows andpopulations move to focus islands. To meet this demand, additional government
administration buildings will be needed. This sub-component will support the construction o f unified
multi-purpose buildings to provide the additional public servicesrequired, rather than the construction o f
several government buildings, each to provide a single service. The unification o f services ina single
multi-purpose buildingwill generate savings on construction costs andoperating expenses. Further,
grouping services inthe same location will ease access to consumers.


                                                   - 36 -

 Sub-component 4c.         Develop Island-levelbroadbandIT network

This subcomponent will improve the coordination of focus islandservices andofficials to improve
utilization o f the existing infrastructure bybuildinga broadband IT network betweenkey service centers on
the focus islands. On selectedislands, this improvement will complement Phase 2 ofthe ADB-funded
Government Net project, which will link all government offices inMal6 and throughout the islands.
Efficient andrapidtext, voice and image transfer will facilitate training, capacity buildingand distance
learningconsiderably more than the current, simple dial-up technology. Inaddition, broadband IT networks
basedon the focus islands will enable the establishment of a local intranet link andemail. The local
network server will hold information for local use, which will be regularlyupdated. Inaddition, the server
will provide external email on a batch basis by dialing up once a day and exchanging emails with points
outside the island.




                                                     - 37 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                            MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project

                                                                                                 Local                Foreign                    Total
                        Project Cost By Component                                              US $million          US $million             US $million
1. Strengthen Education Services Delivery                                                          1.50                   6.48                      7.98
2. Strengthen Health Services Delivery                                                             1.67                   0.47                      2.14
3. Strengthen Employment Services                                                                  0.80                   0.46                      1.26
4. Strengthen Community Services                                                                   1.41                   2.03                      3.44
5. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                                               0.15                   0.95                      1.10
6. Strengthen Project Management                                                                   0.58                   0.99                      1.57
Total BaselineCost                                                                                 6.11                  11.38                     17.49
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                             0.06                   0.23                      0.29
 Price Contingencies                                                                               0.13                   0.59                      0.72
                                         Total ProiectCost:                                        6.30                  12.20                     18.50
                                 Total FinancingRequired                                           6.30                  12.20                     18.50



                          Project Cost By Category
CivilWorks                                                                                            1.OS                     4.33                     5.41
Goods (Equipment,Furnitureand Consumables                                                             0.56                     2.72                     3.28
Technical Assistance                                                                                  1.09                     2.01                     3.10
Training                                                                                              1.45                     1.52                     2.97
Grants (DevelopmentFund)                                                                              0.70                     0.00                     0.70
IncrementalOperating Costs                                                                            1.23                     0.80                     2.03
PhysicalContingencies                                                                                 0.06                     0.23                     0.29
PriceContingencies                                                                                    0.13                     0.59                     0.72
                                                         Total ProjectCosts1                          6.30                    12.20                    18.50
                                                Total FinancingRequired                               6.30                    12.20                    18.50


  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total projectcost, net of taxes, is 18.5 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85.19% o ftotal
  project cost net o ftaxes.




                                                                    - 38 -

                              Annex 4: Economic analysis of the project
                       MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project

Summary of Economicanalysis (The completeversion of the economic analysis is placed in files.)

The expectedbenefits ofthe project are summarized inTable 1:

 able 1: Overview of expected benefits

  (i)Education
  Higherenrollment inlower secondary education, and               Not quantified
  improved learning outcomes, particular for students from
  the atolls, and for the girls
 ~
  Improvedquality o f education.                                  Not quantified
  Containment o fthe rise inunit costs inthe education sector.    Rfl1milliodyear

  (ii)Health
  Better quality o f treatment, and reduced unit costs, o f health Not quantified
  care inthe atolls; lower incidence o fmicronutrient
  deficiency. Less vulnerability due to improvedaccess to
  essential drugs
  Lower infant and child malnutrition                              Stunting incidence inthe atolls
                                                                   reducedby 7-22 %-tage points
                                                                   after 10 years; wastingb;16-28.
  Savings inpublic and private expenditures on drugs               RW-3 8 milliodyear
  Lower travel cost for medical treatment (from telemedicine)      Rfl-3 milliodyear

  (iii)Employment
  Improveyoung Maldivians' utilizationo f available labor          Not quantified
  market opportunities inthe atolls
  Highertax revenues (from import duty o f additional              RD-6 milliodyear
  spendingby employed)

  (iv) Community services.                                         Not quantified
  Better utilizationo f land, buildingsand other resources on
  the islands; improved social and recreationalfacilities;
  community social capital.
  Rationalization o f public services                              Rfl million

  Total quantified social benefits 1/                              Rf24-57 milliodyear
  Net present value o f investment(quantified, @ 5%, over 20       Rfl00-480 million
 years)
  Internal social rate o f return                                  14-57%
  Fiscal cost saving (recurrent)                                   Rfl0-33 milliodyear

litaximpactexcluded.Note:Therearemanyuncertaintiesaffectingthesenumbers.Theyshouldberegardedas
suggestiveonly.




                                                   - 39 -

                             The role ofthe public sector


Education. For lower secondaryeducation, the argumentsfor public sector interventionare: (i)           although
there are strong private returns to secondaryeducation, private finance for educational purposes is
unavailable (because o f the risks involved, the inabilityto collateralize humancapital, and the very long
payback period o f educational investments); (ii)    there are positive externalities to education that benefit
society at large, notjust the individual, making it desirable to enhance education: (a) education would
increaseproductivity growth o fthe economy; and (b) provision o f secondary schooling for girls would lead
to lower fertility rates an important target for the Maldives inlighto f its highpopulation growth rates and
intense pressures on the available landmass; (iii) are presently only 6 private schools (of which three
                                                      there
are inMale) offering lower secondary education inthe country, enrolling only 15 percent o f all students at
this level; (iv) it i s unlikelythat the poor and the outer atoll populations would be adequately served by
private education. For these reasons, public sector involvement ineducation is desirable.

Healthandnutrition.Here the public sector has to play a strong role ina partnership with community
groups, because(i)      goodnutrition o f the populationi s a meritgood, and one which the government can be
expected to defend.; (ii)    parental lack of knowledge o f the importance o f nutrition, and o f simple
cost-effective means to maintain and improve the nutritional status o f pregnant mothers and infants,
provides a scope for public intervention; (iii)   child malnutrition i s very highinthe Maldives, also when
compared to countries at similar level of development, and, inthe absence o f intervention, economic growth
alone would not leadto significant improvements; (iv) securing economy-wide externalities such as better
nutrition resultingina healthier, more productive population, and (v) the interventionwill lead to
improvements inlearningoutcomes-research            has shown that the returns to school investments are
improved through successful nutrition interventions.

Improvingemploymentservices. Enhancing access tojob services (information about availablejobs, job
preparednesstraining, access to training opportunities, counseling) is expected to help improve labor
market outcomes for Maldivians, especially inthe atolls. Largenumberofexpatriates currently work inthe
tourism industry. Thejobs intourism are often relatively well paid and attractive. The obstacles for more
Maldivians to take up employment intourism appear to relate to: lack o f required skills, lack o f information
aboutjob openings, and sometimes poor motivation. The proposedjob centers are designed to tackle these
constraints. A narrow role for the public sector in employment services is envisaged: (i) coordinator and
                                                                                                as
provider o f information onjob opportunities; and (ii)limitedamount o f extension and awarenessraising,
                                                           a
motivated by the findingthat while private sectorjob opportunities are available, services related to job
information andmatching o fjobs and workers are not currently provided by the private sector. The
proposedproject implements this service inthe public sector on a pilot basis; ifit proves successful, inthe
future the scope for outsourcing this service to the private sector shouldbe looked into.

Communityservices. This project component aims to strengthenthe ability o fcommunities to manage
common buildings and other islandresources. Itbuilds upon and strengthens island social capital. This
way, local communities are empowered. The aim is that the public sector should not managethose common
resourcesinwhich island communities have a comparative advantage.

Focusislandapproach.Promotion o fthe focus islandapproach is an additional important argument for
public sector involvement. The focus islandapproach i s a key strategic decision for the country, one which
only the government can make. The needfor greater population concentration is not merely economic:
global environmental threats make population concentration on ecologically safe islands desirable.




                                                        - 40 -

                                           Poverty impact

The proposed project aims to expand public services inthe atolls, which are currently underserved relative
to the capital. Maldives has substantial disparities in income (and non-income measureso f welfare)
between Male' and the outer atolls. The higher unit costs o f social and infrastructure services inthe outer
atolls has increasedpublic expenditures inan unsustainable manner.The proposed project aims to address
these challenges ina pro-poor mannerby (a) focusing exclusively on service delivery and development in
the atolls, which have substantially higher poverty as compared to Male', and (b) because special efforts
are included to assistthe poor inaccessing services, for example through residential learning centers. The
project will help improve access by the poor to services, and secure the quality o f services inthe atolls, the
point at which most of the poor consume it. By developing a cost-effective approach for provision of
quality servicesto the atoll population, the proposedproject addresses directly the need for greater regional
equity inbothaccess and quality.

                                     Cost-effectiveness

Education

Information on unitcosts o fproviding education at different levels is not available. However,
student-teacher ratios are substantially lower insmall atoll schools than elsewhere. Table 2 estimateswhat
itwould cost ifinsteadof the focus islandapproach, the government were to attempt providingsecondary
schooling inall the inhabitedislands inthe four focus atolls. Recurrent costs only are estimated (although
with a considerable degree ofuncertainty). Assuminga standardof six teachersper school, it would cost
approximately Rf24.2 to provide a secondary school to all o f the 35 inhabited islands inthe four focus
atolls; the total recurrent cost savings o f the focus island approach would be around 11million Rfiyear, or
2.4 percent of the education budget.

Table 2: Hypothetical recurrent cost of providing secondary schools in all islandsin four focus atolls
  Approximate recurrent cost o fproviding secondary teaching per school (6               0.691 million
  teacher school)                                                                        Rflyear
  Approximate recurrent cost o f providing secondary teaching inall inhabited            24.2 million
  islands (based on 6 teachers per school)                                               Rfiyear
  Approximate cost o f sec. schools infocus atolls                                       13.4 million
                                                                                         Rflyear
  Approximate annual cost saving                                                         10.8 million
I                                                                                        Rflvear
  Cost saving inpercent o f total education budget                                     I 2.4percent

Health

Nutritionpromotion The nutritionpromotion component is designedbasedon international experiences,
which point to nutrition awarenessandsupplementary feeding as cost-effective interventions provided (i)
locally available, low-cost ingredientsare used, and (ii) is proper oversight from qualified health
                                                            there
personnel. Analysis suggests that it is unlikelythat malnutrition will be brought down to any significant
extent inthe absence o f the project, giventhat internationalexperience suggests economic growth has only
modest impacts on malnutrition.

Under assumptions about project success rates inreducingmalnutrition, as well the elasticity of stunting
andwasting with respectto economic growth, the incidence o fchildmalnutritionwith and without the



                                                        -41 -

project are calculated and shown inTable 3. The project is expected to have the largest and the quickest
impact on wasting (temporary malnutrition), which responds faster to interventions. The project is expected
to beginreducing malnutrition to any large extent only after a lag since it will take time to expand program
coverage. By 2015, the project may reduce the incidence of wasting inthe atolls by 16-28
percentage-points (depending on assumptions, documented inthe notes to Table 3) relative to the situation
without the project (which factors ineconomic growth). For long-term malnutrition, the simulation suggests
that by 2015, the project may reduce the incidence of stuntinginthe atolls by 7-22 percentage-points,
dependingon assumptions.

Table 3: Childmalnutritionreductionexpected from the project.All atolls.

                                      Stunting                  Wasting
                                  1998                      1998
                               (VPA1) 2010 2015           (VPAI)   2010 2015
 Without project                    43.0 41.8 40.8            50.0   48.6 47.4

 Withproject
           Case A                           38.0 28.5               39.9   19.0
           Case B                           26.3 18.3               23.7    11.1
           Case C                           39.4 33.7               43.0   30.9
 Assumptions:                                             General  Case A   B          C
 Real economic growth rateper capitaper year:                  2.4
 Elasticity of malnutrition with respect to growth:           -0.2
 Share ofpopulation covered by project infirst year:                   5%   5%           5%
 Annual growth of share covered:                                     35%    50%         25%
 Maximum share covered (96):                                           75     85          70
 Success rate of interventionsfor stunting (% of covered):           40%    65%         30%
 Successrate of interventionsfor wasting (!Aof covered):             80% 90%            60%


Enhancing the quality of health services onfocus islands. Health costs are high inthe Maldives: public
and private health expenditures are both around $100 per capita per year (source: private spending
calculated from HIES 2002103; public spending from official budgetdata). This level o f health spending
(around 10percent o f GDP) i s unusually highby internationalperspective.

Standardtreatment protocolsare a simply, provenmeasureto ensure uniform, cost-effective treatment
practices. They are expected to help reduce both private and public sector treatment costs, partly by
recommending generic drugs.

Communitypharmacieshave proven effective inincreasing essentialdrug access and use inrural
communities (see for example Uzochukwu, 2002). Community pharmacies provide essential, generic drugs
with lower costs that market-based pharmacies, even with a mark-upto cover costs. Community
pharmacies hence increasedconsumer surplus because (i)       they help make drugs available to communities
who are otherwise unable to get them on a regular basis. Problems relating to access to essential drugs is a
key source ofvulnerability inmany islands, where local stores often do not stock necessary drugs; (ii)
community pharmacies sell drugs at lower prices and use generic drugs. (iii)   community pharmacies reduce
travel cost. The cost savings that can be expected from standardtreatment protocols and community
pharmacies, while difficult to know with precision, are likely to be inrange o f 1-5 percent o f total (public
and private) health expenditures. The cost savings under these assumptions would range from



                                                       - 42 -

US$600,000-3 millionper year as quantified inTable 4.

Table 4: Health cost savings under different assumptions

         Healthcost                    Cost savings (public and




 Note: Cost reductions related to cheaper, generic drugs assumedto result from
 (i)treatmentprotocolsthatrecommendgenerics;and(ii)        community pharmacies.


Distance learningfor healthpersonnelis motivatedby the two considerations: (a) to ensure quality and
continuity o f health services offered inthe atolls. Because o f a small number o f personnel ineach facility,
services are disruptedwhenever staff travel to Male' for training; and (b) reduction intraining-related
travel costs.

Telemedicine will reduce the cost o f travel and time to obtain medical services, improve health status on
the focus atolls, and improve the reputation o f the focus islands as a "good place to live". Annually, 3400
and 4400 patients from Laamuand Naifaruatolls travel to Male' for treatment, amounting to a travel cost
o f Rfl0.7 million (1-3 million o f which could be savedby telemedicine, see Table 5). Assuming a 5 year
lifecycle for the telemedicine equipment, the social benefit breakeven point at which costs and social
benefits balance i s when 15 percent of medical trips to Male' can be averted.

Table 5: Health cost savings under different assumptions


    treatment averted
      by telemedicine
    (from Laamu and

      10 percenttrips                    Rf 1million per year
           averted
         20 percent                      Rf 2 million per year
         30 percent                      Rf 3 million per year



Employment services


Job centers on focus islands

Employment services-counseling, placement, job matching andother related services-have           been found in
manycountries to have apositive impact on employment and earnings potentials ofparticipants. Their
costs are relatively low, and such services are often cost-effective. Thejob centers are expected to each
only employ one person, with a few additionalpersonnel inMale'. Job centers do not work that well where
structural unemployment is highandthere is a genuine lack o f demandfor labor. Since Maldives employees
30,000 foreign workers (34 percent o f the domestic labor force), insufficient labor demand does not seem to
be the main cause of unemployment inthe country. Other types of labor market interventions (training and
employment subsidies, for example) are not proposed inthe project, inpart because this type o f
intervention often have not been cost-effective inother countries (Betcherman, Olivas, and Dar, 2004).




                                                                    - 43 -

Communityservices

Multipurposebuildings.Most of the government offices inthe islandsare residing intheir ownbuildings,
each occupying its own premises. This arrangement is not only inefficient interms o f basic service
provision, but is also costly to maintain andutilizes scarce land ina wasteful manner.Hence the
government is looking to consolidate any new offices that may be establishedinthe focus islands inone
single multipurpose building. The community recreational activities are largely expected to be financed
from user charges. Participatory meetings indicateda big demand for such services inthe islands.
Government services would be rationalizedand save on recurrent costs from co-locating inthe
multipurpose buildings.

                                           Fiscal Impact

Recurrent cost savings amounting to up to 1percent o f the nationalbudgetare expected from this project.
InTable 6 the indirect consequencesofthe projectfor recurrentbudgetexpenditures are estimatedto be
cost savings inthe rangeo f US$l.1-2.9 million annually (a largepart o f which would come from not
having to operate secondaryeducation on smaller islands, and savings on drug costs). Cost savings could
be larger to the extent the approachespilotedby the proposedproject are scaledupby the government.




                                                    - 44 -

Table 6: Changesinoperatingcosts andintax revenuesresultingfrom the project.Approximate
estimates

 Item:                  Net fiscal impact inUS$ million  Explanation
                       per year (positive amounts
                        indicate fiscal improvements)
 (i) increases
    Direct
 inrecurrent
 expenditures
 Bandwidth/connectiv    -0.144                           Project costs
 ity
 Support for project    -0.11                            Project costs
 management
 Job centers           -.107                             Salaries, rent etc financed by
                                                         government
 Total direct cost     -0.36
 increases
 (ii)Indirectfiscal
 effects (savings
 relative to expansion
 path without project)
 Education              0.85                             From not having to operate
                                                         secondary school son each
                                                         primary island
 Nutrition              0                                Assumingcommunity self-
                                                         financing
 Health                 0.3-1.5                          Reduced treatment costs from
                                                         greater use o f generics etc
 Community services                                      Savings fromjoint facilities

 Tax impact             0.24-0.5                         From increased import tax
                                                         stemming from employment &
                                                         income growth
 Total indirect fiscal  1.13-2.95
 effects

 Total approximate      0.77-2.59                        This represents the approximate
 fiscal effects                                          annual recurrent savings made
                                                         through the moiect
 Savings inrecurrent    3.85-12.95
 expenditures over
 project lifecycle




                                               - 45 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
                       MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project
                                        Years Ending

                         I
                         I                                                                 1
                         I                         IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                           Year1   I  Year2   I  Year3   IYear4   I Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts             4.2         5.1         4.3      2.6      0.1     0.1     0.0
 RecurrentCosts               0.3         0.5         0.5      0.3      0.3     0.2     0.0
Total ProjectCosts            4.5         5.6         4.8      2.9      0.4     0.3     0.0
Total Financing               4.5         5.6         4.8      2.9      0.4     0.3     0.0
Financing
  IBRDllDA                    4.0         5.3         4.1      2.3      0.1    0.0      0.0
  Government                  0.5         0.3         0.7      0.6      0.3    0.3      0.0
      Central                 0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
      Provincial              0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
  Co-financiers               0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries       0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                         0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Project Financing       4.5         5.6         4.8      2.9      0.4    0.3      0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                             - 46 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                      MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project

Procurement

General Description

IDA credit would finance US$15.76 milliontowards a IntegratedHumanDevelopment Project inthe
Republic o f Maldives for five years. The project components would focus on the selectedislands to: (i)
Strengthen Educationservices Delivery; (ii)   Strengthen Health Services Delivery; (iii) Strengthen
Employment Services; (iv) StrengthenCommunity services; (v) Project Monitoring and Evaluation; and
(vi) StrengthenProject Management. There will be severalsub- components under eachofthe main
components listed above.

Procurement Responsibilitv, Risks, and Arranpements

The project implementation will be the responsibility ofthe responsible sector Ministries suchas Ministry
of Education (MOE), Ministry o f Health (MOH), Ministryo f Employment and Labor (MEL) andMinistry
o f Atoll Development (MOAD). The MOE is expected to play the coordinating role for the implementation
o f the proposedproject. The procurement arrangementsunderthe project will be primarily the
responsibility of the Project Management andCoordination Section o f the Ministryo f Educationwhich was
originally set up to be the Project ImplementationUnit(PIU) under previous IDA projects including the on
going Third Educationand Training Project (TETP). This unit has successfully implementedprevious
projects and now has beenmade an integral part o f the Ministryas the PMC. The PMC will coordinate the
entire procurement process and will seek assistancefrom the concerned ministries and institutions, such as,
MOH, MOL, and MOAD.

Inthe absence ofaCPAR, anextensive procurement capacity assessmentwas completed. Basedonthat the
procurement riskat the MOE i s rated as average while the procurement risks at all the other implementing
agencies are rated High.Inorder to mitigate the procurement risks, MOE has agreedto strengthen the
capacity of the staff o fthe P M Uby obtaining the services o f an external consultant to assist and advice the
implementationagenciesinprocurement related including conducting several training programs inMale. In
addition, severalkey staff will participate at regional level training programs inprocurement.

Procurement o f works and goods under the project will be carried out inaccordancewith the World Bank
''Guidelines:Procurement underIBRDLoansandIDA Credits",published inMay 2004.Procurementof
consultants' services will be in accordance with the "Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of
Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers", published in May 2004. A General Procurement Notice will be
publishedinUNDB on line, hardcopy andmarket o fthe development gateway. Specific procurement
notices for all ICB contracts and EO1for consultancy assignmentsestimated to cost more than
US$200,000 will be publishedinUNDB on line. MoE shall use the sample documents already agreedfor
the procurement o f civil works following NCB procedures and goods following ICB procedures. The
procurement methods applicable to various expenditure categories are summarized inTable A.
Procurement thresholds and prior review requirements are outlined inTable B.




                                                     -47-

ProcurementMethods

Civil Works (US$6.6million): Giventhe nature o f the works to be financed under the Credit, civil works
will be procuredfollowingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures acceptableto IDA; there will
be 11NCB contracts estimated to cost around US$6.6million, one for each ofthe focus islands for the
construction o f multipurpose buildings, learning centers, science laboratories, ICT centers. All NCB bid
documents will be inEnglishandprepared usingthe IDA smaller-works StandardBiddingDocument
(SBD) as the template.

Goods (US$2.5 million):

International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$1.3million)

Furniture, educational equipment, computers, office equipmentand specialized IT equipment and
communicationequipment for IT Centers including equipment for Wide Area Networking, estimated to cost
US$50,000 per contract willbeprocuredfollowingICBprocedures.

Shopping (USSO.6 million)

Furniture, small value educational equipment andconsumables, macro-nutrient supplementsPrinting and
production o f education materials estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, will be procured
contracts that be awarded on the basis o f shopping procedures inaccordance with paragraph 3.5 o f
Guidelines.

Direct Contracting( US$O.6 million)

Library books and teachingltrainingmaterials will be procureddirectly from the publishers on the basis o f
pro-forma invoices; whenever two or more similar items exist, comparative bids will be sought from a
minimumoftwo publishersor suppliers. proprietary equipment and spares, software estimated to cost less
than US$ 1,000 would be procuredfollowing Direct Contractingprocedures inaccordance with paragraph
3.6 of the Guidelines.

Procurementfrom UNAgencies (USS0.3 million)

Small quantities o f goods of specialized nature meetingthe requirement inthe fields o f health and education
activities estimated to cost less than US$ 10,000 per contract would be procured from the appropriate UN
Agency following paragraph 3.9 o f the Guidelines.

TechnicalAssistance, Training andWorkshops(US$6.6 million):

TechnicalAssistance (US$3.2million): Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services wouldbe
required for US$3.2million. Consultants would be selectedQuality andCost-Based Selection (QCBS),
Single Source Selection (SSS), and Selection basedon Consultants Qualification (CQ) methods. Where
appropriate IndividualConsultants (IC) would also be hired.

TA consultancies for firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more will be selectedin
accordancewith Section I1o f the guidelines, Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). All other TA
consultancies for firms will be inaccordancewith Paragraph 3.7 o f the guidelines, Selection Based on
Consultant's Qualifications (SBCQ) or Single Source Selection. Individual consultants for T A may be


                                                   - 48 -

selectedinaccordance with Section V of the guidelines, Selection of Individual Consultants.
Training and Workshops(US$3.4million): Training would be undertaken at various levels inthe
education and health service delivery components. The training includes (i) training, (ii) o f
                                                                               Staff            Training
Trainers, (iii)Training programs andMaterials for teacher center, (iv) in-service training, and (v) overseas
fellowships. Overseas Fellowships will be awarded under the Government's current administrative
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. The Government, inthe interest o f increasing the number o f
fellowships available, will undertake to have as many fellowship recipients as possible placed inregional
institutions. All fellowship beneficiaries will be selectedand approved by concemed ministries before being
processedby the PMU.

IncrementalOperatingCosts (US$1.3 million): Credit will finance on a decliningbasis incremental
operating costs such as transportation, communications including telephone and intemet services, limited
costs agreedtowards utilities for management and supervision of the project/program activities.

ProcurementPlanning:The proposedProcurement Planfor (goods, works and services) the first eighteen
months o f the project shall be h i s h e d to the Bank for its review and approval in accordancewith the
provisions o f paragraph 1o f Appendix 1to the Guidelines by appraisal Procurement o f all Goods and
Services shall be undertaken inaccordance with Procurement Plan as shall have been approved by the Bank
andwith the provisions of saidparagraph 1.Annual Implementationplans including the Procurement Plans
shall be reviewedby the Bank.

PriorReview:The first two ICB contracts for goods independent ofthe value, andall other ICB contracts
for goods estimated to cost more than US$ 250,000 will be subject to prior review. The first two NCB
contracts for works and all other contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 500,000 will also be subject to
prior review by the Bank as per provisions set forth inparagraphs 2 and3 o f Appendix 1o f the Bank
Guidelines. All consultancy contracts with firms o f value more than US$100,000 andwith individuals o f
value more than US$50,000 would be subject to prior review as per provisions set forth inparagraphs 2
and3 ofAppendix 1ofthe BankConsultancy Guidelines.Despite the low limitsstipulated for prior review
o f contracts, not more than of the contracts are expected to come under the provisions o f prior review. This
appears reasonable considering the nature o f the project andthe procurement involvedtherein.

Postreview: The contracts below the prior reviewthresholdfor Works, Goods and Consultancy contracts
shall be subject to post review as per procedure set forth inparagraph 4 o fAppendix 1o f the Bank
Guidelines and Bank Consultancy Guidelines. Bank staff would conduct post awardreview during
supervision missions.

ProcurementInformation:Procurement information would becollectedandrecordedas follows at the
PMU:

(a)      Prompt reporting o f contract award information by;
(b)      Comprehensive semi-annual reports by indicating:
                      revisedcost estimates o f individual contracts andthe total project;
                0     revisedtimings of the procurement actions including advertising, bidding;contract
                      award, and completion time for individualprior review contracts;
                0     compliance with aggregate limitson the specified methods o f procurement; and
(c)      Completion report by the Borrower within three months o f the Credit closing date.




                                                      - 49 -

  Procurementmethods(TableA)


                           Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                               (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                              Procurement MethodI
      Expenditure Category                     IC6                 NCB              Othet           N.B.F.       Total Cost
~1. Works                                      0.00                6.60              0.00             0.00            6.60
                                              (0.00)              (5.30)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (5.30)
 2. Goods                                      1.30                0.00              1.21             0.00            2.51
                                              (1.30)              (0.00)            (1.21)           (0.00)          (2.5 1)
 3. Services                                   0.00                0.00              3.20             0.00            3.20
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (3.20)           (0.00)          (3.20)
 4. Training and Workshops                     0.00                0.00              3-40             0.00            3.40
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (3.40)           (0.00)          (3.40)
 5. Grants to Cooperatives                     0.00                0.00              0.70             0.00            0.70
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.70)           (0.00)          (0.70)
 6. Operating Costs                            0.00                0.00              0.66             1.43            2.09
                                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.65)           (0.00)          (0.65)
    Total                                      1.30                6.60              9.17             1.43            18.50
                                              (1.30)              (5.30)            (9.16)           (0.00)          (15.76)


  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services, services o f contracted staff of
    the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
    managing the project, and (ii)
                                 re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 50 -

                    Table AI : ConsultantSelection Arrangements (optional)
                                    (US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Selection Method
  Consultant Services
Expenditure Category    QCBS      QBS     SFB        LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F. Total cosd
A. Firms                 0.60    0.50     0.00       0.50     0.00   0.70   0.00     2.30
                        (0.60)   (0.50)  (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)  (0.70) (0.00)  (2.30)
B. Individuals           0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   0.90   0.00     0.90
                        (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.90) (0.00)  (0.90)
                  Total 0.60     0.50     0.00       0.50     0.00    1.60  0.00     3.20
                        (0.60)   (0.50)  (0.00)    (0.50)    (0.00)  (1.60) (0.00)  (3.20)




                                             - 51 -

Prior review thresholds (Table 6)

                 Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                   ContractValue                                     Contracts Subject to
                                     Threshold                 Procurement                 Prior Review
                                  (US$ thousands)                  Method                 (US$ millions)
                                   (i)AllContracts         National Competitive     Fisttwo contracts andall
                                National Competitive               Bidding             contracts above US$
                                      Bidding                                                 500,000

                             Fisttwo contracts and all                               All contracts Post Review
                                contracts above US$
                                      500,000

I                            All contracts Post Review
2. Goods                    (i)Contractsofvalue>=         InternationalCompetitive   The first two contract and
                               US$50,000 equivalent                Bidding           all All contracts above
                                                                                           US$250,000
                            (ii) Contracts of value less          Shopping           All contracts Post Review
                            ;han US$50,000 or less >=
                            (iii) Contracts of value less
                                than< US$1,000 and           Direct Contracting      All contracts Post Review
                              books, teachinghaining
                            (iv) Contracts ofvalue less
                                 than US$ 10,000 o f            UNAgencies                  Post review
                               specilized nature inthe
                               fields of education and
                                       health
                                      (a) Firms            Quality and Cost Based           all contracts
                                   (i)Contracts >=           Selection (QCBS)
                              US$lOO,OOO equivalent         QCBS, SBCQ, Single        TOR and shortlist to be
                                   (ii)Contracts <             Source Selection            prior reviewed
                                    us$loo,ooo
                            (b) IndividualConsultants Inaccordancewith Section              All Contracts
                            [i) Contracts >=US$50,00(        V ofthe Consultants
                                      equivalent                  guidelines
                            (ii) contracts <US$50,000                                TOR to be prior reviewed
                                      equivalent

                              Contracts >=US$50,000       Single Source Selection as      Post review only
                                      equivalent          per paragraph 3.8 of Bank
                            (ii) contracts <US$50,000      Consultants Guildelines
                                      equivalent
                                                             Service of Delivery
                                                              Contractors as per
                                                           paragraph 3.19 of Bank
                                                             Consultant Guideline



                                                    - 52 -

 5. Grant                                                                                  I   Post review onlv
 6. Incremental               Eachcontract for hiringof
 3perating Costs              transportation, maintenance
                                o f computerslequipment,
                              and consumablesestimated
                                to cost the equivalent of
                                 US$lO,OOO or less per
                               contract may be awarded
                               by: (i) direct contracting;
                                  or (ii)on the basis of       (i) Contracting
                                                                 Direct                         Post review only
                                   comparison o fprice      (ii)
                                                               Solicitation o f three bids.     Post review only
                              quotations obtained from at
                                   least three qualified
                              suppliers eligible under the
                                        guidelines

               Total value of contracts subject to prior review: will be assessedduringthe appraisal
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
      Frequencyof procurement supervision missionsproposed: One every six months
                                                                          (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                         post-reviewlaudits)


"Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency`s Capacityto Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                      - 53 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                         MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project

FinancialManagement
1. SummaryoftheFinancialManagementAssessment

   CountryIssues

   A CFAA was carried out for the Maldives in2000 andthe reportpublishedinDecember 2000. The
   main conclusion of the assessment was that public financial management and accountability is still at a
   nascent stages inthe Maldives. There is understandingand commitment within the Government to
   modernize inthis area, and important steps have begun, but a sustainedprogram which addresses the
   need for reforms ina systematic and comprehensive manner, and implementation o f recommendations
   from past studies as well as ones underway, i s required. Support and ongoing interest for this program
   from the highest levels of Government will be critical. The project itselfis ring-fenced, as the accounts
   will be maintained on a stand alone system at the PMC, as has beenthe current practice under the
   on-going TETP.

   StrengthsandWeaknesses

   The project has the following strengths:

   1.    A well functioning financialmanagement systemfor recording, accounting, andreportingon
         financial transactions of the project exist at the PMC. The system i s beingusedto record activities
         under the on-going TETP. This systemprovides a good framework to buildon and continue the
         activities o f IHDP.

   2.    An effective andefficient report-baseddisbursementmethodfacilitating cash-flow and funds
         management o f the TETP exist. The same report-based system will be utilized for the IHDP.

   3.    The TETP has anexperienced chiefaccountant, who is well versed inAssociation procedures.
         She will also manage the accounting activities for the IHDP



     Significantweaknesses                                   Resolution
      1.     The PMC would need an additional                Fundingwillbe providedunderthe
     accountant to share the work load for the IHDP.         project to hire an additional
                                                             accountant.
     2.      Only the Chief Accountant i s fully             Training to be providedto the assistant
     compliant with Bankprocedures.                          accountants. Fundingwill be provided
                                                             under the Droiect.

   ImplementingEntitv

   The project is expectedto be implementedby the line ministries, oversaw by ahigh-level
   inter-ministerial committee. Project components will managed as follows:: (i) o f Educationwill
                                                                                   Ministry
   beresponsible for education component, (ii)   MinistryofHealthwill beresponsible for the health
   component, (iii)  MinistryofHumanResources,Employment and Laborwill be responsible for



                                                     - 54 -

employment services; and(iv) Ministryo f Atoll Development will be responsible for the strengthen
community service component. All administrative activities, including procurement, disbursement and
financial managementtasks are expected to be managedby the PMC. The PMC will coordinate and
consolidate information from the respective Ministries for submission to the Association.

FundsFlow

IDAfunds wouldbepaidout directly to the suppliers from a SA establishedat the MaldivianMonetary
Authority (MMA). The PMC will prepare the documentation and get the necessary clearances and
submit thepayment order to the MMA. The reimbursementofthe SA will be done by the MOFT. The
FMRsand the Withdrawal Application will bepreparedby the PMC and submittedto the MOFT for
signature/ authorization. The MOFT inturn will returnthe signeddocuments to PMC to be submitted
to the Association for reimbursement o f the SA. The local contribution will be paidby the PMC
through a localaccount with MMA, basedon documentation preparedby the PMC andcleared by the
MOE. Inorder to ensure that adequate local contributions are available for the first year o f operation,
the Borrower will deposit $50,000 in a local account, prior to Effectiveness.

Staffing

The PMC is adequately staffed to carry out the on-going TETP, butwould require more staff to handle
the IHDP, especially for financial and procurement related activities. The required staff should be hired
prior to Boardpresentation.

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

The PMC keeps accounts according to Intemational Accounting Standard (IAS) and Bank procedures.
These procedures are recorded inthe PMC's Operational Guidelines.

Reportingand Monitoring

Formatof FinancialStatements

Formats for the FMRs are to developed and will be agreed at credit negotiations. The formats to be used
will be inaccordancewith the guidelines issuedby the Bankon November 30,2002 andwill
incorporate lessons learnt from the existing FMR formats.

Information Svstems

All ProjectAccounts are to be maintainedon cashbasis andinaccordancewith Intemational
Accounting Standards. Financial transactions o f the project will be computerized on the existing system
at the PMC.

SuuervisionPlans

The project will requireregular supervision during the life ofthe project.




                                                - 55 -

2. Audit Arrangements

   The PMC will provide the Association annually with financial statements andaudits for project. The
   Project accounts, including contracts and their modifications and amendments, as well as the deposits
   andwithdrawals from the Special Account wouldbe audited eachyear by an independentauditing firm
   acceptable to the Association and underterms and conditions satisfactory to the Association which will
   include a management letter on the internal control structure. This aspect will be discussedand agreed
   duringNegotiations. Annual audit reports with the related statementswould be submittedto the
   Association within six months o f the end o f the Borrower's fiscal year. All supporting records would be
   maintainedat the Project site for at least one year after the completion o f the Project. The TOR'S for the
   project audit has been agreedwith the Association.

3. DisbursementArrangements

   Disbursements will be report based, beginning first quarter after effectiveness. The PMC will prepare
   consolidated quarterly Financial Management Report (FMR) for the purpose o f reporting project
   implementation. On a quarterly basis, the PMC will provide to IDA: (i)    a project-progress report; (ii)a
   project financial statement; (iii)
                                   a procurement managementreport; and (iv) a commitment monitoring
   report. Subsequentto the review o f these reports, an advance inthe amount o f six months' project
   expenditure requirements will be disbursed to the SA.


                           Action                                 Responsible
                                                                   Person                Completion
     PMC to hire an accountant                                 Director PMC          By September 30,
                                                                                     2004
     Deposit $50,000 ina localbank account for local           MOF                    Sixty days after
     contribution                                                                     signingthe DCA.

Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C)




                                                    - 56 -

                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1          Expenditure Category                    Amount in                 Financing Percentage
                                                   US$million
                                                      4.80                             80%
                                                      2.70          100% o f foreign expenditures,
Consumables                                                         100%of local expenditures
                                                                    (ex-factory cost) and 80% o f local
                                                                    expenditures for other items
                                                                    mocured locallv.
Consultant Services                                    2.86         I              100%
Training andWorkshom                                  2.91                         100%
Grants:                                                0.70                        100%
  (i)ForMicrofinanceIntermediaires                    0.30
 (ii) CommunityBasedOrganizations
     For                                              0.40
Incremental Operating Costs                           0.64            100%for year 1to 2 of the project;
                                                                       80% for year 3; 60% for year 4;
                                                                              40% for vear 5
RefimdingofPPF                                        0.50                         100%
Unallocated                                           0.65          II                                      11
Total Project Costs with Bank                         15.76
Financing
 Total                                                15.76



Special account:
A Special Account will be set up andmaintained inU S dollars at the Maldives Monetary Authority
(MMA),which will makepaymentsrequestedbythe PMC. Replenishment ofthe SA will beaccording to
the FMR-based disbursementprocedures. For all prior review contract awards, disbursements against the
SA will be subject to granting o fno objectionby IDA to the PMC and subsequentsubmission o f signed
contracts to IDA.




                                                  - 57 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                    MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project


Project Schedule                                             Planned                        Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                        06/27/2003                     06/27/2003
Appraisal mission departure                                04/08/2004                     04/10/2004
Negotiations                                               05/12/2004                     05/17/2004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                              08/08/2004


Preparedby:
MinistryofFinance andTreasuy, MinistryofPlanningandNationalDevelopment, MinistryofAtoll
Administration, Ministryo f Education, Ministry o f Health, Ministryo f Employment and Labour, Ministry
o f Communications Science and Technology, and Ministryof Home Affairs andEnvironment


Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility (PPF).

                                 . -
        Name                                              Speciality
Qaiser Khan                             Lead Social Protection Specialist, Team Leader
HarshaAturupane                         Sr. Economist
Sumith Pilapitiya                       Sr. Engineer
GNV Ramana                              Sr. Public Health Specialist
Laura Kiang                             Operations Officer
Rasmus Heltberg                         Economist
Sheila Braka-Musiimi                    Counsel
Rajat Narula                            Sr. Finance Officer
HiranHerat                              Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Krishna Pidatala                        Senior Information Officer
Meenakshy Santhadevi                    Social and Gender Development Consultant
Deepal Fernando                         Procument Specialist
Jean-PaulFaguet                         Consultant/Economist
Bertha Mburugu                          Program Assistant
Richard Beardmore                       Sr. Urban Specialist
Paul-Andre Halle                        ConsultantIFacility Planning Specialist




                                                   -58 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                     MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
PIP was receivedfrom the Government May 17,2004.

B. Bank Staff Assessments


1.      Preparationmission Aide-memoires
2.      Appraisal mission Aide-memoires
3.      Detailed Economic Analysis


C. Other


1.      Maldives Beneficiary Impact Assessment with Gender Dimension
2.      Capacity buildingfor coordinating andmanaging community services
3.      Employment-generation component:Job-centers as part of a nationaljob-information network
4.      Establishment o f residential community learning centers on Focus Islands
5.      Focus Island-Education Quality Study
6.      Environmental report andenvironmental managementplan
7.      Nutritioncomponent report
8.      Telemedicine report
*Including electronic files




                                                  - 59 -

                                      Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                  MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project
                                                         29-Apr-2004
                                                                                                                  Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                           and actual
                                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID  FY     Purpose                                IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO55944     2000 111 EDUC a TRAIN.                           0.00      17.60                         0.00      7.11       5.25       0.00

                                                  Total:    0.00       17.60                         0.00      7.11       5.25       0.00




                                                          MALDIVES
                                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                    Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                          Mar 2004
                                                               -
                                                     InMillions USDollars


                                                                          Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                        IFC                                    IFC
     FYApproval               Company                          Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic     Loan     Equity       Quasi     Partic
     2001                     MFLC                             3.00        1.25       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.25       0.00      0.00
     2004                     Taj Maldives                      8.50       0.00       0.00      8.50      8.50       0.00       0.00      8.50
     2002                     Villa Shipping                  10.00        0.00       5.00      0.00      5.00       0.00       5.00      0.00
                                    Total Portfolio:          21.50        1.25        5.00     8.50      13.50       1.25        5.00    8.50



                                                                    Auorovals PendineCommitment
     FYApproval              Company                              Loan         Equity        Quasi     Partic


                             Total PendingCommitment:              0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                             - 60 -

                                                      Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                              MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project
                                                                                             Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                   South    middle-
                                                                  Maldives           Asia    income          Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                         0.29         1,401      2,411                         Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    2,090          460       1,390
GNI (Atlas method,US$billions)                                         0.60          640       3,352                                -1
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%J                                                          2.3           1.8         1.o
Laborforce (%)                                                          2.4           2.3         1.2        GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                             per                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                        capita                               enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpoverty//ne)
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                                   28            28         49
Life expectancyat birth (yeam)                                           69            63         69                                1

infantmortality (per f,OOO livebirths)                                   58            71         30
Child malnutrition1%of children under5)                                                           11                  Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                      100            84         81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage f5+)                                        3            44         13             -
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                      131            97        111                     Maldives
    Male                                                                131           108        111                     Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                              131            89        110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1982        1992          2001       2002
                                                                                                             Economicratios"
GDP (US$ billions)                                          0.05       0.28          0.62        0.62
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                                                          21.8                                         Trade
Exportsof goodsand servicedGDP                              20.0                     87.2
Gross domesticsavingslGDP                                                            38.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                                            27.3

CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                                  -39.9        -6.9          -9.8
Interest paymentslGDP                                         1.7        0.5          0.7         0.7
Total debtlGDP                                             135.9       33.3          37.6        43.8
Totaldebt servicelexports                                    5.3         3.2          4.6
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                             28.3
Presentvalueof debffexports                                                          37.4                                       Indebtedness
                                           1982-92 1992-02             2001          2002    2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                             -Maldives
GDP                                               ..         6.0         3.5          2.3
GDP Der caDita                                                3.5        1.I 0.0                                           Lower-middle-incomecroup
                                                                                                                     ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                           1982        1992          2001       2002          Growth of investmentand GDP (Oh)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                                                  40 T

Industry                                                                                                      20

    Manufacturing
Services                                                                                                     1.1.
Private consumption                                                                  38.1                    1-401
Generalgovernment consumption                                                        23.7
Importsof goods and services                                80.0                     70.8

                                                        1982-92 1992-02              2001       2002         Growth of exports and Imports(%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                                                       I
Agriculture                                                   6.2        2.1           1.6        1.4
Industry                                                     10.3        8.8           4.7        2.7
    Manufacturing                                            10.1        5.6           3.1        1.5
Services                                                     10.2        8.6          -3.0

Privateconsumption                                                       3.0           4.9
Generalgovernment consumption                                   ..      13.3           7.7
Grossdomestic investment                                                 5.2           6.7
Importsof goods and services                                             7.6           1.9

* The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. Ifdata are missing, the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                                -61 -

                                                                                                                          Maldives

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                 1982     1992        2001   2002   I Inflation
Domestic prices                                                                                                                      1
(% change)
Consumerprices                                    22.0    16.8         0.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                                                   0.6     1.o
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                            27.7        32.8   34.7
Currentbudget balance                                       9.8        6.4    7.9   I          -GDP                                  I
OverallsurDius/deficit                                   -11.8                                            deflator  ' O ' C P I
                                                                      -4.9    -6.8

TRADE                                                                                                                                I
                                                1982      1992       2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                               and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                         65        110
  Marineexports                                             32         44
 Garments                                                    8         32            300
  Manufactures
Total imports(cif)                                         189        348            200

  Food                                                                  85
 Fueland energy                                             23         48            100

                                                                                    I                                                I
 Capitalgoods                                                                          0

Export price index (1995=lOOj                               86         123                  96   97    98    99      00     01

Import price index (1995=100)                               92          79                     HExports        HImports           O2
Termsof trade (1995=700)                                    94         156

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                1982      1992        2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                        Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (Oh)
Exportsof goods and services                        77    219         464
Importsof goods and services                       94     217         457
Resourcebalance                                    -17       2           7

Net income                                          -5      -17        -35
Net currenttransfers                                 3       -5        -30    -42

Currentaccount balance                             -19      -20        -61

Financingitems (net)                               26        17        40
Changes in net reserves                             -7       3         21      -5

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                        18        94
Conversion rate (DEC,/oca//US$)                    7.2    10.6        12.2    12.8

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                       I
                                                1982      1992        2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composltlonof 2002debt (US$ mlll.)
Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed                 65       95        235     270
  IBRD                                               0       0           0       0
  IDA                                                2      22          44     50

Total debtservice                                   4         7         22     22
  iBRD                                               0       0           0       0
  IDA                                                0       0           1       1
Compositionof netresourceflows
  Officialgrants                                     1       12         15       0         F 48
  Officialcreditors                                 6        13          4     10
  Privatecreditors                                  0        3           1     15
  Foreigndirect investment                          0        7          12       0
  Portfolioequity                                   0        0           0       0                                                    I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                       0       10           0       0    4 . IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                     0        8           0       3    3 IDA
                                                                                        .        D Other multllaferal
                                                                                                  -                       F Privafe
                                                                                                                           --
  Principalrepayments                               0        0           0       1    3. IMF                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                            .
  Netflows                                          0        8          0        3
  Interest payments                                 0        0          0        0
  Net transfers                                     0        8          -1       2

mote: Inis table was proauceafrom tne uevelopment tconomics centralaarabase.




                                                                 - 62 -

                  Additional Annex I 1: Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
                       MALDIVES: Integrated Human Development Project


The overall objective o fthe project monitoring and evaluation framework is to: (a) improve managementof
programs and supporting activities, (b) ensure optimum use o f funds and other resources, (c) draw lessons
from experience to improve the relevance, methods andoutcomes o f cooperative programs, (d) improve
service delivery to promote active atoll community participation, quality, transparency and accountability,
(e) strengthen the capacity o f implementingagencies and local islandcommunities to monitor andevaluate,
and (f) improve information sharing systems and enhance advocacy for policies, programs andresources
that improve the IHDproject contribution towards delivery o f basic social services. The outcome o fthe
M&Ecomponent willbe anM&Eframework which will allow continuous adjustments inthe IHD
project's implementationapproach, procedures andorganization to fit beneficiaries' needswithin the
framework o f established and agreedupon goals. A copy o f the M&Ecomponent's Logical Framework
Approach matrix i s attachedinAnnex 1.

Project M&E system will consist o f the following activities:

1.       Computerized Project Management Information System: A computerized project Management
Information System (PMIS) will be establishedto assist the PMC and other implementingagencies in (i)
preparingannual work plans andbudgets, (ii)     monitoring actual physical implementation, (iii)tracking
project expenditures, and (iv) facilitating regular progress reporting. The computerized project MIS i s
expected to be developed during the first year o f the project (PFY1).

2.       Studies, s w e w & evaluation: Studies and surveys constitute a large part o f the M&E component
and are expected to be undertaken periodically. This includes an initial baseline study, two beneficiary
assessmentsundertaken once in2 years, 4 annual labor force surveys on focus islands (undertaken in
PFY2, PFY3, PFY4 and PFYS), 2 user surveys for compliance with standardtreatment protocols inPFY3
and PFYS), a mid-termevaluation study anda final impact assessment study at the endo f the project. In
addition to these, the project may undertake a numbero f thematiddiagnostic studies during the course o f
implementationto supplement andcomplement data gathered from regular monitoring.

3.       Participative monitoring & evaluation: A participatory approach with qualitative indicators to
promote accountability o f service providers will be useful. The approach promotes a working partnership
between the government and community institutions (islandcooperatives and community based
organizations) inundertaking the monitoring and evaluation activities. Inthis regard, the project will use
(a) Citizen Report Cards and (b) Gendered Community Score cards. The project is expected to conduct 3
Citizen Report Card and 3 Community Score Card exercises during PFY1, PFY3 and PFYS.

Computerized ProjectManagement InformationSystem

A simple computerizedProject Management Information System (PMIS) is neededto ensurethe timely
availability o f information to aid decision making and reporting. The proposed MIS would cater to the
information needso f (a) project management andadministration and (b) the various project components      -
Education, Health, Employment andCommunity services. It will be designedto accommodate basic
information relating to IHDproject inputs, outputs, and expenditure, while capturing certain types o f
baseline information about beneficiary groups, beneficiary households, facilities and services. Currently,
some o f the requisite information is collected andmaintained within the differentimplementingagencies



                                                     - 63 -

and some functionality i s exist inthe financial management system (PMR) that will be used for the project.
The existing systemsand their capabilities will be studied and an integrated MIS developed. The key
feature o f the project MIS will be to facilitate information sharingwith all relevant stakeholders, thus
creating ownership o f data andinformation and assistingproject planningandmonitoring. The project MIS
(or expanded and adaptedMIS)will be the repository of the information necessary to track project inputs,
processesand outputs. It will also provide the samplingframe necessaryfor the drawing o f probability
samples for the household surveys and qualitative beneficiary group monitoring. Finally, the project MIS
will be usedto track the various monitoring and evaluation reports that will be produced.

The project MIS will be designed and developed during the first year of the project (PFY1). A consultancy
o f 5 months will be undertaken to establish the project MISbaseduponproject needs and requirements.

Studies, Surveys and Evaluation

Studies and surveys constitute an important element o fthe M&E strategy and complement the information
gathered from the project MIS. This sub-component includes an initial baseline study, periodic beneficiary
assessments, special studies, a mid-termevaluation and a final impact assessment at the end o f the project.
Inadditionto these, the project will undertakea numberofthematicldiagnostic studies duringthe course of
implementation to supplement and complement data gatheredfrom the regular monitoring.

Baseline Studv: Baseline data and information will be establishedto facilitate measuring o f the progress
andimpact made bythe project. Informationwill be collected for the project indicators specified inthe
M&Eplanand will be collectedfor focus atolls. The keyperformance indicators specified for the project
as a starting point and baseline information for these indicators (at a minimum) are required. Baseline data
will be developed usingthe data from Census 2005 and existing data from the HouseholdIncome and
Expenditure Survey (HIES) 2003, Poverty Vulnerability (VPA) Survey 2004 and Multiple Indicator
Cluster (MICS) Survey 2001. It will be established inthe first year o f the project (PFY 1).

Benefician,Assessment Studies: Beneficiary assessment studies will be carried out periodically (once in
two years) on the selected focus islands. The methodology of the qualitative monitoring ofbeneficiary
groups will be primarily be developed from participatorytechniques andother types o f focus group
interviews. The overall objective o f beneficiary assessments are to qualitatively evaluate the design
principleslassumptions as well as the accomplishments o f the project interventions The beneficiary
assessmentswill aim at assessingthe perceived impact o f benefits derived from the programinvestments
and services, andthe ability of focus islandcommunities to utilize the acquired knowledge andenhanced
social capital from project processes to demand better services and governance.

Special Survevs & Studies: Inaddition to the Baseline study andthe periodic beneficiary assessments, there
i s a needfor some special studies during the course of implementation to supplement and complement the
information collected from regular M&E sources. The purpose o f these special studies is to (a) complement
the data and informationgeneratedthrough the regular monitoring system, (b) provide additional data
information serving the mid-termreview as well as the terminal evaluation and (c) to provide project
managementwith a flexible monitoring tool to aid the project's implementationprocess.

Mid-TermEvaluation: A mid-termevaluation of the project shouldbe undertaken after 24 months of
operation. The mainpurpose o f the evaluation will be to: (i)   determine progress towards the original project
objectives, (ii)evaluatethe initial impact o f the project on the targeted beneficiaries, (iii) whether the
                                                                                             assess
implementation arrangementsagreedare efficient, (iv) draw lessons from experience, enabling the
government to adapt its method o f operations for the future. The midterm evaluationwill include, apart


                                                       - 64 -

from a more detailed analysis o f information collected and stored inthe MIS, the commissioning of special
studies (which may include both qualitative and quantitative surveys) by extemal consultants

Impact Evaluation: will be undertakento assess the impact o f IHDactivities basedon the agreedimpact
indicators. The tool for evaluation will include special studies, surveys anda final Impact Assessment study
that will be carried out at the end of the project.

Participatory Monitoring& Evaluation:

Given the results basednature o f the overall monitoring and evaluation strategy o f the IHDproject, a
participatory approach with qualitative indicators to promote accountability o f service providers will be
useful. The approach promotes a worlung partnership between the government and community institutions
(proposed `atoll level consultative groups') inundertaking the monitoring and evaluation efforts. Inthis
regard, the project will use (a). Citizen Report cards and (b). Gendered Community Score cards.

Citizen Report Cards are an aggregate o fpublic ratings on differentaspectso f service quality, built on
scientific random sample surveys o f users o f different public services (utilities). The specific aspects
addressedinthe survey include availability of service, usage, satisfaction, service standards, major
problems with service, effectiveness of grievance redress systems, corruption encounteredand other hidden
costs experienced by citizens on account o fpoor service. Inother countries (such as India), it has
succeededincreating greater awareness among boththe citizens (users) and the government agencies
(service providers). Dialogues with service providers for reformhave been an important outcome of these
exercises.

The Citizen Report Cardmodel has also been applied to the study o f significant themes such as quality o f
health care services inpublic hospitals, service delivery o f education ingovernment schools, public
distribution system, impact o f information technology, impact o f economic liberalization on small and
mediumindustries etc. Itis proposedthat this instrument be used inMaldives to monitor service quality at
education andhealth facilities under the Maldives IHDproject

A Community score card is a qualitative monitoring tool that is usedfor locallevel monitoring and
performance evaluation o f services, projects and even government administrative units by the communities
themselves. Itprovides information on -(a). How inputs or expenditures match with
entitlements/allocationsat the local/facility level (b). The criteria usedby the community and by providers
themselves to assess their own performance (c).How both the community andproviders score themselves
on these criteria (d). Anecdotal evidence on which these scores are based and (e). How the assessments by
the community andproviders can be usedto develop an action plan for improvements inthe projecthervice

The `Community Score Card' is an instrument for empowerment andaccountability as it includes an
interface meetingbetween service providers andthe community that allows for immediate feedback.
`Gendered Community Score Cards' are instruments to exact public accountability by soliciting user
perceptions on the quality, efficiency, and adequacy o f the various public services that are fundedby tax
payers. They add value by identifying anddeveloping a database on the impact o f proposed activities on
both genders. Withinthis context, `public sewices 'would include education, multi-purpose boarding
houses, healthand employment within each atoll. Score cards bringforth information on user(s) access,
usage and qualityheliability o f these services, which are some o f the key components o f measuring an
output ina qualitative manner. The insights derived from these cards are useful inunderstanding the degree
to which the services are reachingthe target groups, the extent o f leakages and also factors that contribute
to suchmisdirection o f resources and services. They help identify physical availability, quality and cost


                                                      - 65 -

factors that constrain the access to, and the use o f services by the poor, and the possible means to rectify
the situation.

Information for scorecardswill be gatheredthrough household interviewswith sample populations within
each atoll, implemented by a team with representation from relevant stakeholders. The interviews would be
carriedout every year on a random sample of households within randomly selectedFocus Islands and
Primary Islands of specific atolls. The interview checklist will include few indicators on each service
delivery against which individual ratings will be made.

The responsible agency andthe methodology for implementingthe Citizen report cards and the Community
score cards is to be further discussed, detailed and finalized incollaboration within the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) strategy o f the whole program. The information from the scorecards will feed into the
overall M&E o f the project.

The M&E will be carried out on parameterswithinthe four public service variables: (i)       education; (ii)
multi-purpose boardinghouses, (iii) and (iv) employment. The ratings will be generatedaddressing
                                      health,
both male and female beneficiaries. The ratings will include the following: (i)   not satisfactory; (ii)
satisfactory; (iii) satisfied.
                  fully

The IHDproject will assess its project management systems and procedures inrespect oftheir relevance,
effectiveness, efficiency and impact at focus Island, primary island, atoll and national levels. The key
performance indicators will be:

         Increase incitizen satisfaction with social services on focus islands, as measuredby Citizen Report
         Cards and Community Score Cards, by 30% by end-of-project..
         Increase in secondary (grade 8-10) enrolments on focus islands by 25% by end-of-project.
         Female students account for at least 40% o f the student residents inthe ResidentialLearning
         Centers on the four focus islands by end-of-project..
         Reductioninthe gender gap in0-level pass rates on focus islands by 25% by end-of-project..
         Reductioninjob searchwaiting time on focus islands by 20% by end-of-project.
         Increase from zero to 50% inthe use o f Standard Treatment Protocols on Focus Island Hospitals
         by end-of-project..
         Reduce the number o f children showing faltering growth duringweaning period (6 to 12 months)
         by 30% on the focus islands by end ofproject.
         20% increase innumber or value o f local development initiatives undertaken by CBOs on focus
         islands by end-of-project

The actual performance o f the project will be measuredby the M&E system. Inaddition to the key
performance indicators defined above, a set of secondary indicators will be used to track inputs,processes,
outputs, outcomes and impact for each o f the project components.




                                                      - 66 -

MAP SECTION


