                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001914



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-39480 IDA-39481)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.3 MILLION
                       (US$12.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES

                                        FOR AN

               INTEGRATED HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                December 22, 2011




Human Development Unit
Sri Lanka and Maldives Country Office
South Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective: December 20, 2011)

               Currency Unit = Maldive Rufiyaa
                  MVR1.00 = US$0.06
                    US$1.00 = MVR15.41

                       FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBO       Community Based Organizations
ERL       Post Tsunami Emergency Relief and Reconstruction Project
IDA       International Development Association
IHDP      Integrated Human Development Project
M&E       Monitoring & Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOFT      Ministry of Finance and Treasury
MOHFW     Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MOH       Ministry of Health
MPB       Multipurpose Buildings
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PMC       Project Management and Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
RLCs      Residential Learning Centers
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
UNICEF    United Nations International Children’s Education Fund
WHO       World Health Organization




         Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero
         Country Director:       Diarietou Gaye
         Acting Sector Manager   Pablo Gottret
         Project Team Leader:    Andrea Vermehren
         ICR Team Leader:        Jayshree Balachander
                                          REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
                                     Integrated Human Development Project



                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................................ i
   A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
   C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
   E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
   H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................................7
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................................17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................17
6. Lessons Learned.........................................................................................................................21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................22
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ..........................................................................................23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................................24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............................28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................30
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR ..........................................................................................32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................................45
MAP ...............................................................................................................................................46
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Maldives - Integrated
Country:                Maldives                Project Name:          Human Development
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P078523                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-39480,IDA-39481
ICR Date:               12/22/2011              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MALDIVES
Original Total
                        XDR 10.90M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 7.79M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 8.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Edu; MOHFW; Ministry of HR, Labor, Employment, and Ministry of Atolls
Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/25/2003     Effectiveness:          12/09/2004        12/09/2004
Appraisal:            04/11/2004     Restructuring(s):                         11/21/2006
Approval:             07/06/2004     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                06/30/2010        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower           Moderately


                                                i
Performance:               Unsatisfactory             Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        10                  22
Health                                                                   13                      7
Other social services                                                    12                      2
Secondary education                                                      46                  55
Sub-national government administration                                   19                  14


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                        17                  55
Improving labor markets                                                  17                  2
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                   17                  6
Nutrition and food security                                              16                  1
Rural services and infrastructure                                        33                  36

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:            Diarietou Gaye                        Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:              Pablo Gottret                         Mansoora Rashid
Project Team Leader:         Andrea Vermehren                      Qaiser M. Khan
ICR Team Leader:             Andrea Vermehren
ICR Primary Author:          Jayshree Balachander




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of this project are to: (i) improve social outcomes and
promote economic growth by strengthening the delivery of social services (education,
health and nutrition services) available to the population; (ii) reduce poverty and promote
regional equity by strengthening social service delivery and increasing economic
opportunities in atolls remote from the prosperous Male region; and (iii) promote
ecologically sustainable development by concentrating services and populations on
ecologically viable islands within these atolls.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the delivery of
social services on Focus Islands.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                 Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in citizen satisfaction with social services by 30 percent
Value
quantitative or   56%                        +17%                               +12%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  This indicator was dropped. It is not strictly comparable over time as citizen
(incl. %
                  satisfaction is not an objective measure.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increase in secondary grade (grade 8-10) enrolment by 25 percent
Value
quantitative or   1,208                      1,510                              951
Qualitative)
Date achieved   04/11/2004                  06/30/2010                        06/30/2011
                Not achieved due to change in government policy resulting in a reduction of
Comments
                students attending focus schools. However, focus schools were upgraded to
(incl. %
                higher secondary level and enrolment increased from 71 (2005) to 192 (2011)
achievement)
                student (a 171% increase).
Indicator 3 : Reduce gender gap in O level pass rates by 25 percent
                Ba. Eydafushi           -2 -1                                 +21
Value
                Lh. Naifaru             +8 N.A                                +3
quantitative or
                Dh. Kudahuvadhoo         -7 -5                                +2
Qualitative)
                La. Gan 0                   0                                 -20
Date achieved 04/11/2004                    06/30/2010                        06/30/2011
                Targets achieved except in La. Gan. The negative figures of the baseline indicate
Comments
                the difference in the percentage of passes for females compared to males. There
(incl. %
                is no gap in Naifaru where the female pass rate is higher by 8 percentage points
achievement)
                at baseline.

                                                  iii
Indicator 4 :     Female students account for at least 40 percent of RLC residents
Value
quantitative or   0                          40                                  48
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Targets achieved. RLCs operated only in final year of project.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Increase from zero to 50 percent the use of standard treatment protocols
Value
quantitative or   0%                         50%                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
                  A new patient information system incorporating the standard protocols has been
Comments
                  installed. The system is used by doctors in all locations. Technically, this target
(incl. %
                  has therefore been achieved but the proper use of the system could not be
achievement)
                  verified.
Indicator 6 :     Reduce growth faltering in children 6-12 months of age by 30 percent
Value
quantitative or   30%                        20%                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
                  No survey data available for the islands after the baseline value established by a
(incl. %
                  UNICEF survey.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Reduce job waiting time by 20 percent
Value
quantitative or   N.A.                       80% of baseline                     N.A
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was dropped.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     20 percent increase of local development initiatives by CBOs
Value
quantitative or   N.A.                       -                                   N.A
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/11/2004                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Baseline and final data not available.
achievement)




                                                   iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 : 80% of secondary teachers receive in-service training
                Ba. Eydafushi              44                                  44
Value
                Lh. Naifaru                40                                  40
(quantitative
                Dh. Kudahuvadhoo           17                                  16
or Qualitative)
                La. Gan                    24                                  24
Date achieved 04/11/2004                   06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Train pharmacists from each focus island and 10 primary islands
Value
                                                                               21 dispensary
(quantitative   Nil                        14
                                                                               paramedics
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/11/2004                   06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
                Training was provided for dispensary paramedics as candidates qualified to
(incl. %
                attend pharmacists training could not be identified on the islands.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Increase O level pass rates by 25%
                Ba. Eydafushi        28 35                                     41
Value
                Lh. Naifaru          39 49                                     31
(quantitative
                Dh. Kudahuvadhoo 8 10                                          29
or Qualitative)
                La. Gan              5     6                                   21
Date achieved 04/11/2004                   06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved except in Lh. Naifaru.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Multipurpose buildings to be operational by end of Project Year 4
Value
(quantitative   Nil                        2                                   2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/11/2004                   06/30/2010                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target achieved but two years later due to delays in construction.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     09/27/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00

                                               v
 3     05/24/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  0.34
 4     11/17/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           0.53
 5     05/25/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.22
 6     11/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  2.63
 7     05/31/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  3.73
 8     11/27/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  4.01
 9     05/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           5.58
 10    12/03/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           7.74
                                                 Moderately
 11    05/20/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                   7.74
                                               Unsatisfactory
 12    09/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           8.55
 13    04/15/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  8.93
 14    06/18/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  8.93
                         Moderately
 15    01/23/2011                              Unsatisfactory                 9.02
                       Unsatisfactory
 16    06/22/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory          12.11


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     In March 2005, SDR 6.6 million
                                                     was cancelled from the original
                                                     credit of SDR 10.90 million to
                                                     support emergency tsunami
                                                     relief activities under an
                                                     emergency IDA credit.
 11/21/2006       N       MS    MS            2.63
                                                     Subsequently SDR 4 million
                                                     was restored under IDA 15 and
                                                     the project restructured for the
                                                     new budget which included
                                                     dropping of activities as agreed
                                                     with the implementing agencies.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Maldives is a unique archipelagic state comprising 1190 islands spread over 900
kilometers, of which only 198 islands are inhabited. Moreover, the inhabited islands are
very small (only 33 of them have an area larger than one square kilometer) and are
sparsely populated (over 70 percent of the islands have less than 1000 persons). These
characteristics pose two key development challenges: first, the high cost of reaching
small and widely dispersed populations and second, the risk to communities in
ecologically vulnerable islands. Further, the continuing migration of the population from
remote islands with poor social and economic infrastructure to the capital Male, which
was already home to more than a quarter of the country’s population, pointed to a need
for greater regional development. The government strategy was to develop two regional
centers in the far north and south, complemented by economically, socially and
environmentally sustainable focus islands (renamed “safe? islands after the tsunami) in
different atolls to act as service hubs and growth centers. The government selected 10
focus islands to pilot this strategy and sought World Bank technical support and
assistance through the Integrated Human Development Project (IHDP) to develop social
services on four focus islands: Eydafushi in Baa Atoll and Naifaru in Lhaviyani Atoll,
(north of Male) and Kudahuvadhoo in Dhaalu Atoll and Gan in Laamu Atoll (south of
Male).

2.      In education, the Maldives had achieved near universal primary school enrolment
but the challenge remained of providing opportunities for at least ten years of education
to students in the outer atolls where the gross enrolment rate was only 54 percent
compared with 131percent in Male. As the cost of establishing secondary schools on all
islands would have been prohibitive, the Government’s strategy was to concentrate
secondary education on focus islands. Besides infrastructure, opportunities for
professional development for teachers and principals and the availability of learning
materials were limited in the outer atolls. Moreover, students had to stay with host
households on the focus islands and female students were obliged to help with household
chores, resulting in lower pass rates for girls in the O level exams. The government
strategy was to establish residential learning centers1where students from primary islands
could live and attend secondary school.

3.      A basic health services network for handling communicable diseases had been
established in the outer atolls, but facilities for diagnosis and treatment of non-
communicable diseases was not available. The extensive use of foreign health personnel
and their high turnover made it difficult to ensure standardized treatment. The


1
  Residential learning centers are apartment type accommodation where several students from one primary
island could board along with an adult resident as caretaker.


                                                   1
Government therefore proposed to introduce telemedicine and to develop standard
treatment protocols for non-communicable diseases to improve the quality of care in the
periphery. Telemedicine would also help to cut high travel costs associated with
treatment. A shortage of essential drugs on primary islands was proposed to be met
through community pharmacies. Unexpectedly high rates of malnutrition (over 30
percent in under fives) was sought to be addressed through a nutrition education and
behavior change communication program.

4.      With an unemployment rate of 13 percent in the atolls and a skills mismatch
between those seeking work and available jobs, the Government sought to improve labor
market information on the atolls, counsel job seekers and provide training and financing
for entrepreneurship and self-employment. It also planned to develop focus islands as
hubs for the provision of local public services, including broadband connectivity, and to
strengthen the capacity of community based organizations in providing social services.

5.      The project was consistent with the Bank’s country assistance strategy which was
focused on reducing poverty and piloting innovative and cost-effective ways of
expanding public social services on disadvantaged atolls remote from the affluent Male
region.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.     The Project Development Objectives of this project were to: (i) improve social
outcomes and promote economic growth by strengthening the delivery of social services
(education, health and nutrition services) available to the population; (ii) reduce poverty
and promote regional equity by strengthening social service delivery and increasing
economic opportunities in atolls remote from the prosperous Male region; and (iii)
promote ecologically sustainable development by concentrating services and populations
on ecologically viable islands within these atolls.

7.    The outcome indicators listed in Annex I of the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) were:

          Improved quality of secondary education on the selected islands attracting
           students from other islands
          Better quality health and nutrition services on the selected islands
          Access to quality employment services which reduces time needed to find jobs
          Better facilities and opportunities for CBOs on the focus island

8.         The eight output indicators (subsequently tracked as PDO indicators) were:

        Increase in citizen satisfaction2 with social services by 30 percent


2
    As measured by citizen report cards/community score cards


                                                     2
       Increase in secondary grade (grade 8-10) enrolment by 25 percent
       Reduce gender gap in O level pass rates by 25 percent
       Female students account for at least 40 percent of RLC residents
       Increase from 0-50 percent the use of standard treatment protocols
       Reduce growth faltering in children 6-12 months of age by 30 percent
       Reduce job search waiting time by 20 percent
       Increase the value of local development initiatives by 20 percent

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.       The revised PDO was to “assist the Borrower in improving the delivery of social
services on focus islands?. IHDP was signed in October 2004 for an amount of SDR 10.9
million (US$15.6 million equivalent) and became effective on December 9, 2004. That
same month, the country was severely affected by the December 26, 2004 Tsunami
disaster. An amount of SDR 6.6 million (US$10. 0 million equivalent) was cancelled
from the project in February 2005 and reallocated to finance urgent post-tsunami
rehabilitation works under the Post Tsunami Emergency Relief and Reconstruction
Project (ERL). Subsequently, an additional credit of SDR 4.0 million (US$5.7 million
equivalent) was approved by the Bank in February 2006, making the total available credit
for this project SDR 8.3 million (US$12.58 million). To meet the shortfall of about $3
million some activities had to be dropped from the original list of components. In line
with the IDA 14 guidelines, the PDO was changed to limit the objective to what was
realistic given the available budget, country’s capacity and the project’s time frame and
the indicators to what was measurable. The PDO was therefore simplifiedand two of the
original eight key indicators were dropped, viz.: (increase citizen satisfaction with social
services by 30 percent and reduce job search waiting time by 20 percent). The following
four Intermediate Outcome (IO) indicators were added: (i) 80 percent of secondary
teachers receive in-service training; (ii) train 14 pharmacists (one from each focus and 10
primary islands); (iii) increase O level pass rates by 25 percent; and (iv) multipurpose
buildings to be operational by Project Year 4.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The immediate beneficiaries of the project were identified as the secondary school
age population in the focus atolls, especially poor and female students facing difficulties
in leaving primary islands to attend secondary school; those needing health services in
the focus atolls, and especially women and children availing nutrition services; job
seekers in the atolls, and community groups on the focus islands. All residents of the
focus atolls were expected to benefit in the long run through the improved delivery of
social services. In addition, there was considerable investment in human development
through the training of significant numbers of government staff in degree, diploma and
shorter courses, including principals, teachers, IT personnel, health staff, staff of the
MOFT and some members of the community on focus islands. The recently elected
island councils have been vested with the responsibility of managing the multipurpose
buildings and this has provided them with both an income stream and opportunities for
gaining management experience.

                                             3
1.5 Original Components

11.     In order to improve social services and economic opportunities on each focus
island, four components covering education, health, employment and community
development services and a monitoring and evaluation and project management
component were proposed to be implemented, subject to modifications as agreed to by
the Borrower and the Bank from time to time to achieve such objectives:

A. Education Services (US$7.25 million)

    (i) Expanding access to, and improving the quality of secondary level education
          through the establishment and equipping of physical facilities on the focus islands,
          including information and communications technology centers, science
          laboratories, extra classrooms, multi-purpose activity rooms and libraries.
    (ii) Provision of academic and management training to teachers and administrative
          staff in the school system through internet-based support courses and face-to-face
          training programs, and provision of teaching materials.
    (iii) Carrying out a program of construction, furnishing and equipping of residential
          learning centers on the focus islands for the benefit of students attending
          secondary school away from their home island, and provision of training to island
          communities to manage these centers.
    (iv) Carrying out of research, evaluations and studies on student and school
          performance on the Focus Islands as well as on other islands through the
          provision of training and technical advisory services to staff of MOE.

B. Health Services (US$1.99 million)

    (i) Improving the quality of health service delivery through: (i) development of
          standard treatment protocols for the improvement of quality of care for non-
          communicable diseases; and (ii) provision of equipment and training for the
          establishment of telemedicine services at the Atoll hospital in the Focus Island of
          Naifaru and the Regional Hospital in the focus island of Gan.
    (ii) Carrying out a program of nutrition promotion on the focus islands including
          monitoring, education and demonstration of nutritious foods through the provision
          of technical advisory services and training to family health workers, households
          on focus islands and staff of MOH3.
    (iii) Supporting the establishment, equipping and stocking of community pharmacies
          on the focus islands and provision of training to community based organizations
          (CBO's) for the operation of the pharmacies.




3
  The name was changed to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) by the new government
after the elections


                                               4
C. Employment Services (US$1.11 million)

   (i) Establishment of job-centers on the focus islands for the provision of career and
        employment counseling, entrepreneurship development and business services
        through the development of training modules and curricula, provision of computer
        and other equipment and provision of training and technical advisory services.
   (ii) Strengthening of access to micro-finance to support income generating activities
        on the focus islands through the provision of grants and training to CBO's.

D: Community Services (US$3.17 million)

  (i) Strengthening the capacity of CBO's for planning, coordination, management of
        public assets and service provision on the focus islands through the provision of
        training and technical advisory services.
  (ii) Construction of multi-purpose buildings (MPBs) for the provision of social
        services and carrying out of developmental activities.
  (iii) Support to CBO's in the design, implementation and supervision of sub-project s
        including the provision of training on entrepreneurship, management, book
        keeping and other technical areas and the provision of grants to support social
        service activities that are beneficial to the communities.
  (iv) Establishment of an internet network between key service centers on focus
        islands and provision of training on the use of the network so as to improve the
        coordination of service provision and encourage the sharing of information.

E: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.16 million)

Design, implementation and supervision of a monitoring and evaluation system
for the Project so as to ensure better planning, optimum use of resources, information
sharing and timely feedback on the implementation of the project.

F. Project Management (US$1.08 million)

Support the provision of training and technical assistance to the Project Management and
Coordination Unit (PMC) and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT) as well as
civil works and other consultancies.

1.6 Revised Components

12.     The provision of microfinance under the community services component was
cancelled at the time of the formal revision of the PDO. Further, to account for the
shortfall of about $3 million of the original project budget due to the cancellation of
funds after the Tsunami, some the financing of some infrastructure facilities (school,
residential learning centers, multipurpose buildings) on two islands that were affected by
the tsunami – viz. Dh. Kudahuvadhoo and La. Gan - were transferred to the Emergency
credit that was co-financed by the EU. To account for the further funding gap of about
$1.5 million, the mid-term evaluation made recommendations to drop certain

                                             5
components. However the implementing Ministries were unwilling to drop any of the
proposed activities until they were de-facto dropped because of policy changes, other
sources of financing, or difficulties in implementation as follows:
 In the Education Services component, a web-based training portal was dropped (the
   portal was being developed under a UNICEF grant) as well as the lab technician’s
   course (lack of suitable course/candidates).
 In the Health Services component, although discussions to drop the community
   pharmacy sub-component were held on several occasions, it was retained till the end
   at the instance of MOHFW.
 In the Employment Services component the entrepreneurship development sub-
   component was dropped.
 In the community services component, the broadband network was dropped as the
   services were made available to the entire island by a private company before
   technical difficulties could be solved by the Government agency.

13.     Surveys proposed under the monitoring and evaluation component, including the
labor-force survey, were not carried out due to lack of capacity. Other sub-components
detailed by the Government in its implementation plan that were dropped included multi-
grade teaching (change in policy), and a web-based national job information network
(funded by another donor).

1.7 Other significant changes

14.     After the presidential elections of 2008, the new government made radical
changes in the implementing agencies which disrupted project implementation. The
Ministry of Atolls which was responsible for the Community Services component was
abolished and its responsibilities transferred, first to the Home Ministry, and
subsequently to the newly set-up provincial offices. Island and atoll chief positions were
similarly abolished and elected island councils took charge in their place in the last year
of the project. The Health and Employment Ministries and to a lesser extent, the Ministry
of Education were also re-organized.

15.     Annex 1 shows the original allocation of funds by component, allocations after
the additional financing and final actual expenditures. After the formal revision, the
share of the education component increased from 46 percent to 55 percent, project
management from 7 percent to 14 percent, M&E remained unchanged at 7 percent, while
those of the other components fell (health from 13 to 8 percent, employment from 7 to 5
percent and community services from 20 to 14 percent). In terms of final expenditures,
the employment component fell short of its revised allocation by more than half,
accounting for only 2 percent of final expenditures, while the other components
performed approximately as planned. As a result of serious delays owing to the tsunami
and subsequently presidential elections, the project closing date was extended by one
year to June 30, 2011.




                                            6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.    Project preparation was done in close collaboration with the Government of
Maldives to support its strategy for the development of safe islands in the outer atolls that
were large enough to be economically and ecologically viable to attract local atoll
populations from smaller islands. Input from beneficiaries on two of the four islands was
obtained during preparation but given the diversity of contexts among the islands,
providing the same inputs for all four islands on the basis of input from only two islands
may not have been entirely appropriate. Several detailed sectoral background studies and
a detailed implementation plan were prepared for the project, financed by a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.

17.     The original PDO was highly ambitious and could not have been achieved with
the limited inputs provided by the project. The project design was complex in at least two
ways: it included four sectors and five implementing agencies which required intensive
coordination. In addition, the project included several new activities within each
component. The focus islands were dispersed in different atolls. Important risks were not
identified. The highly centralized control of the government before the democratic
presidential elections of 2008 was especially inimical to island level ownership. The
capacity challenges of adequate numbers of qualified staff in the implementing agencies
and of identifying and retaining qualified candidates in the focus islands were not
identified. Long absence of staff being deputed for training under the project was also not
identified as a risk although the PIP noted the risk of turnover of staff who received
overseas training in the project.

18.      Given its complex design, the project overestimated the client’s implementation
capacity, which proved in practice to be quite limited, except at the highest levels. While
the relevant lessons learned from Bank experience elsewhere were correctly identified,
the mitigation measures proposed for two crucial lessons proved to be inadequate. The
first lesson was the importance of developing ownership and accountability at the island
level. The second lesson was the importance of adequate coordination amongst different
implementing ministries. The former lesson was sought to be addressed through feedback
loops in the monitoring and evaluation system and in the latter through the establishment
of two Steering Committees at the ministerial and management levels. Both instruments
proved to be ineffective during project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

19.     Two unanticipated events had a major impact on project implementation: the
tsunami in December 2004 and the first democratic presidential elections in 2008 in more
than a quarter of a century. In the aftermath of the tsunami, not only was project
implementation disrupted for up to a year, but the civil works program was adversely
affected for nearly the entire project period. To cope with the disastrous effects of the
Tsunami, an array of new reconstruction projects and related building activities were

                                             7
launched in the country. This resulted in overextending the few available local
construction companies. At the same time, a severe shortage of construction materials
and labor further exacerbated delays. Finally, construction prices increased substantially
in 2006/2007 which affected original project cost estimations and led to demands for
contract amendments to compensate for these increases. In some cases, the contracts had
to be re-bid and performance guarantees had to be executed. As a result, completion dates
for civil work projects (Residential Learning Centers and Multipurpose Buildings) had to
be postponed several times.

20.     In the run-up to the presidential elections there was a slowdown in project
implementation and further delays and disruptions resulted from the re-organization of
the implementing agencies after the elections. The mid-term review appropriately
recommended increasing project oversight and accountability at the island level and
emphasized the need for better coordination among the implementing agencies. However,
in the absence of a legitimate island authority, this did not take place until local elections
of 2010.

21.     Government capacity was very limited except at the highest levels. Most
government employees had only a school leaving certificate (A or O levels) upon
employment and usually obtained advanced degrees while on the job. This resulted in
long absences from their job and high staff turnover as these employees subsequently left
government service to seek better job opportunities. The situation was even worse on the
islands where it proved extremely difficult to find candidates qualified to attend even
diploma courses (e.g. pharmacists, job counselors).

22.     Working with multiple implementing agencies proved to be problematic for both
the Borrower and the Bank. The PMC was located in the Ministry of Education and this
led to dissatisfaction in other agencies, particularly the Ministry of Health, which
admitted to lacking of a sense of ownership of the project. The PMC, and even the
Steering Committee headed by the Minister of Education, were unable to elicit
accountability from the implementing agencies. Travel between the focus islands and
Male was very expensive, leading to limited face to face contact between the centralized
implementing agencies and the islands, but more importantly, there was a significant
communication gap between the Male based planners and the island communities. The
MoFT did not succeed in successfully performing its oversight role, despite active
involvement with visiting missions, owing to a high turnover of staff and frequent
absences for training already referred to above. It also proved difficult for the Bank to
field the full complement of sector specialists needed to provide supportive supervision,
particularly in a context of shrinking supervision budgets and in a country with high
travel costs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

23.    An ambitious monitoring and evaluation system was planned under the M&E
component, including a computerized Project Management Information System (MIS), a
baseline, mid-term and final evaluation, two beneficiary assessments, four annual labor

                                              8
force surveys and two user surveys for the standard treatment protocols, with provision
for additional studies as needed. Three evaluations were completed as planned, through
beneficiary assessments using a Citizen Report Card. The computerized project MIS was
not fully established, but a manual monitoring format and system were implemented for
most of the project period. In hindsight, even with technical assistance, local national
implementation capacity was inadequate for the sophisticated M&E system that was
planned.

24.     The selected key indicators were adversely affected by changes in policy, lack of
end of project data and delays in implementation. For example, a major change in the
school rationalization policy before the presidential elections of 2008 resulted in the
opening of several new secondary schools on primary islands. The targets designed for
increased enrolment in grades 8-10 on focus islands became unachievable as students
preferred to remain on the primary islands up to grade 10. The focus island schools were
however upgraded to A levels with the addition of grades 11 and 12, making the indicator
appropriate only with reference to the higher secondary level. An example of the impact
of delays is the indicator for tracking the effectiveness of the use of residential learning
centers by female students which was unobservable during the project as the centers were
completed just before project closing. Improvements in nutritional status could not be
observed for lack of data at the time of project closing.

25.     The M&E system provided timely information about slow implementation, but
the delays proved intractable, especially in the case of the largest category expenditure –
civil works. The assessments identified the risk that a change in the school rationalization
policy may render the RLCs cost-inefficient. Other issues were identified as important to
beneficiaries (having a say in the selection of teachers, abolishing automatic promotion in
schools, additional test facilities in hospitals and high turnover of professionals) that were
not being addressed by the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

26.    The project complied with all safeguards as planned. Safeguards relating to
environmental standards in civil works construction were observed through civil
engineering specifications developed by an engineering consultant and enforced through
on-site supervision. Health care waste management was implemented through a
nationwide initiative of the MOHFW rather than with project financing. The
environmental impact of small entrepreneurship/community development projects cited
during project preparation did not apply as these were not implemented.

27.     The Financial Management (FM) of the project is rated moderately satisfactory as
only minor shortcomings existed in FM performance and the FM systems provided
timely and reliable financial information required to manage and monitor the
implementation of the project. The PMC complied with the Bank’s FM requirements and
provided adequate implementation support and oversight, contributing to the moderately
satisfactory financial management of the project. FM arrangements were adequate to



                                              9
provide reasonable assurance that the loan proceeds were being used for the intended
purposes.

28.     During the life of the project, the flow of funds remained satisfactory despite the
fact that the centralised payment system of the GoM caused certain delays in payment
processing. Internal control arrangements for the project fulfilled Bank’s requirements.
There were no pending audited or interim unaudited financial reports. The project was
audited by an international audit firm who has issued an opinion on financial statements
of FY 2010 with a minor qualification on the preparation of financial statements on cash
basis. The project devoted extensive efforts towards the end of the project to ensure that
the actual expenditures of the project are recorded to ensure a closure of disbursements.
However, some delays occurred in the financial closing of the project, thus the
“moderately satisfactory? rating.        Furthermore, implementation of the financial
management procedures were delicate in the initial period of the project, as some of items
in the action plan for financial management agreed upon remained unimplemented for a
long time. These included vacancies in key staff positions and delays in installation of the
computerized financial management system at the PMU. This delayed submission of
interim unaudited financial reports (IUFRs) at the start of the project but remedial
measures were taken by the project management based on IDA’s advice that improved
the performance of the financial management. These measures included appointing
adequate staff, training of staff in financial management, and installation of an off-the-
shelf accounting package for computerizing project records from the very inception of the
project. As a result through the remaining life of the project, PMC was able to directly
generate the IUFRs from the system and submit them to IDA in time which was
considered acceptable for the IDA.

29.     The overall management and implementation of Procurement is rated moderately
unsatisfactory. While Bank procurement guidelines were followed, almost all items were
procured albeit with many delays. One civil works contractor won most of the contracts4
raising the question as to whether small contractors were disadvantaged by the bidding
process, though no complaints were received in this regard. There were difficulties with
developing specifications for goods and shipping companies kept changing delivery dates
as they tied these to neighboring country shipments. Overall, poor contract management
proved to be a major weakness. Extraordinary delays in civil works were tolerated in the
aftermath of the tsunami because of a nationwide shortage of contractors, materials and
labor. However, the late enforcement of the decision to invoke remedies in the light of
performance issues rendered the government powerless in the face of non-performance
by the contractors. Likewise, the contract of the supervising engineering company was
allowed to drag on even after the buildings were almost fully complete leading to
unnecessary payments to the company. This latter contract was eventually curtailed after
observations by a visiting Bank mission.


4
  Nine of eleven contracts were awarded by the Tender Committee of the MOFT on a competitive basis to
the largest and most reputed contractor in the Maldives who had a good performance record before the
tsunami and whose bid was lowest, although the Bank did note the risk involved in the award.


                                                 10
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

30.     Governance by and effectiveness of the recently elected local island councils will
be a key factor in determining success of the sizeable infrastructure resources contributed
by the project in the form of Multipurpose Buildings (MPBs) and Residential Learning
Centers (RLCs) on the focus islands. The MPBs are operational and indications are that
they are widely appreciated by the community and will be an economic asset to the island
councils. Most of the spaces in these buildings have been contracted out. The buildings
have accrued surpluses in the few months of operation after meeting current operational
costs. Management committees have been constituted under the island councils as per the
guidelines developed for the management of the buildings by the project.

31.    The RLC in Eydafushi has been inaugurated and will be occupied in the new
school year (2012). In Naifaru, the Minister of Education has assured close oversight to
ensure that families from nearby primary islands who are already using the secondary
school in Naifaru are informed about the availability of the facility. The income from
these buildings should be adequate for their maintenance and operation.

32.     The school infrastructure investment is being fully utilized with particular
appreciation for the furniture and equipment provided. These have been fully
incorporated in the regular management of the school resources. The telemedicine
centers are fully functional from a technical perspective, although a number of
administrative details need to be ironed out. The Government’s extensive investment in
this technology outside the project is reason to expect its utilization and maintenance in
the future. The NCD protocols have likewise been incorporated countrywide in the new
patient information system. The GOM is proposing to further develop and expand the
Teacher Resource Centers through a private-public partnership. Overall, the prospects for
continued utilization of investments in the post-project period are good.

33.     Key performance indicators would be: (i) percentage increase in enrolment in
grades 11-12 on focus islands; (ii) occupancy rates of RLCs, and by female students in
particular; (iii) percentage of consultations in which NCD standard protocols are utilized;
(iv) number of telemedicine consultations monthly in each center; and (v) financial
position of the MPBs

34.     A follow-up human resources development project in support of local island
councils on key safe islands and support for the replacement of expatriates with qualified
local education and health personnel would help improve the quality of social services in
areas remote from Male.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

35.    The tsunami disaster and the subsequent resettlement of affected populations on
two of the four focus islands is the best evidence that the project was prescient and its

                                            11
investments are of continued high overall relevance to the Maldives. The development of
regional growth centers besides Male and the concept of safe islands continue to be an
important part of the country’s strategic priorities. Improving the quality and scope of
education and health services, ensuring prospects for employment and creating
community resources in the outer atolls are also part of the continuing strategy to
improve social services in the periphery.

36.     While the sectors covered under the project and the sub-components continue to
be relevant – e.g. professional development for teachers, teaching and learning materials,
accommodation for students on islands with secondary schools, telemedicine, job
matching and counseling services, multipurpose buildings for government and
community services – project design would have benefitted from considerably greater
inputs, ownership, management and accountability at the island level. The design should
also have allowed for flexibility in the scale and scope of the activities on each island
according to the island’s priorities and capacity.

37.      With regard to implementation, there has been a significant change in
implementation policy since the presidential elections as the highly centralized
governmental system is giving way to greater autonomy at the regional and island levels.
The government is also looking at private-public partnerships for development of the
atolls. In such a context, new implementation options have arisen at the time of project
closing which were not available to IHDP at the time of project preparation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

38.     The project succeeded to some extent in achieving its revised development
objective of assisting the Borrower in improving the delivery of social services on focus
islands.

39.     The outcome indicator for education - improved quality of secondary education
on the islands resulting in attracting students from other islands - was achieved in two of
the four focus islands – Ba. Eydafushi and Dh. Kudahuvadhoo. In La. Gan, beneficiaries
believed that education services had improved considerably in the project period, but
long standing community issues and discipline problems among students could not be
overcome by the project to attract students from other islands. In Lh. Naifaru, which
received the least inputs from the project, there was a decline in school performance and
in the number of students. Of the key output indicators for this component, one became
unachievable (increase in enrolment in grades 8-10) because of a change in policy that
allowed the opening of grades 8-10 in primary island schools. However this target was
achieved in terms of higher secondary grades (11-12). Of the remaining two indicators,
one (reducing the gender gap in O level results) was achieved on 3 of 4 islands and the
other (reserving spaces in RLCs for females and) was achieved, but the RLCs became
operational only shortly before the project closing date. The intermediate outcome
indicator of increasing O level pass rates by 25 percent was achieved on three of four
focus islands. The IO of training eighty percent of secondary teachers was also achieved,
but through workshops rather than the intensive manner originally proposed, as a

                                            12
shortage of teachers did not allow them to be released for long periods and Teacher
Resource Centers were established only towards the end of the project. Achievement of
the education objective is rated moderately satisfactory.

40.     In health, the potential for realizing the outcome indicator – better quality health
services on the island – has been put in place through standard treatment protocols for
non-communicable diseases and by setting up of the telemedicine centers. Since the sub-
components were completed only in the final months of the project, benefits have not
been fully realized at this time. Training for existing community health workers was
provided under nutrition services but no systemic improvements were put in place.
Community pharmacies likewise have been opened, but their sustained operation is
doubtful. The PDO indicator of increasing from 0 to 50 percent, the use of standard
treatment protocols on focus island hospitals has been achieved since the electronic
patient information system into which the STPs are integrated is in use for patients in all
the hospitals. The nutrition indicator of reducing growth faltering by 30 percent could
not be assessed in the absence of final survey data. The intermediate outcome indicator
of training 14 pharmacists could not be achieved as qualified candidates could not be
identified on the islands. Instead, 21 students graduated from a dispensary paramedics
course requiring lower qualifications and of shorter duration than the training required for
pharmacists. Achievement of the health objective is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

41.     The outcome indicator for employment – access to quality employment services
which reduced time needed to find jobs – was not achieved although the infrastructure
was put in place, as qualified candidates to manage the centers could not be identified.
The key indicator for this component was formally dropped. The outcome for this
objective is rated unsatisfactory.

42.     For community services, the outcome indicator -better facilities and opportunities
for CBOs on focus islands – was partially achieved as CBOs have been allocated spaces
in the multipurpose buildings, some capacity building activities took place early in the
project and one of the island development plans was implemented. The key indicator of
operating multipurpose buildings was achieved, but two years later than targeted. The
outcome for this objective is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

43.     Overall, the project achieved its objective to a limited extent, with the following
caveats: (i) improvements in the delivery of social services did not take place to the
extent envisaged at the time of project preparation (ii) investments have not yet reached
their full potential in view of the delays in project implementation and (iii) some
important constraints for the delivery of quality social services on the focus islands
outside the scope of the project continue to exist. Achievement of the PDO overall is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

44.     At the time of appraisal, the economic analysis assumed that the principal benefits
arising from the project would be to increase access to and quality of secondary education,

                                            13
access and quality of care for non-communicable diseases, improve nutrition, reduce
labor market information gaps and promote faster school to work transition, and
strengthen the range of local government services on the project atolls. Actual benefits
accruing from the project include the following: (i) improvements to education
infrastructure and access on the focus islands and to some extent, of quality; (ii) greater
enrolment in higher secondary school (grades 11-12) in the atolls and savings accruing to
families that do not have to send students to Male; (iii) potential for improved health
services for non-communicable diseases on focus islands; (iv) potential savings in health
care costs from telemedicine when it is fully operational; (v) potential for job matching
services through Job Centers; (vi) new social services (gym, library, internet café) via the
multipurpose buildings and a new revenue stream for island councils from the buildings.
The benefits, which are mainly social, cannot be meaningfully quantified at this stage.

45.    In computing a social rate of return, four benefits were quantified at the time of
appraisal:

 Containment in the rise of unit costs in education                     Rf 11 m/yr
 Savings in public and private expenditure on drugs                     Rf 8-38 m/yr
 Lower travel cost for medical treatment from telemedicine              Rf 1-3 m/yr
 Rationalization of public services                                     Rf 1m

46.     Savings did not accrue as estimated from school rationalization (which did not
take place with the change in policy to expand grades 8-10 on primary islands), although
it could apply in future to higher secondary education (grades 11-12) which has now been
introduced on the focus islands. At this time there is no basis for calculating the savings
in expenditure on drugs from improved health services or lower travel costs due to
telemedicine (only 13 telemedicine consultations reported so far). Similarly there is no
data about the rationalization of public services which underwent significant changes in
the post-election period. It can only be concluded that the returns were lower than
estimated at the time of project appraisal, but in view of the social benefits listed, the
social rate of return is positive.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

47.     The project concept continues to be very relevant for the Maldives. A highly
centralized government at the time of project preparation led to a lack of ownership and
flexibility in design and implementation choices at the island level, which adversely
affected project outcomes. Despite this significant handicap, the project did succeed in
meeting its development objective to some extent by improving social services on the
focus islands. In the education sector, which accounted for more than half the total
investment, all the outputs were eventually delivered and that has led to a perceptible
improvement of the facilities and quality of secondary schools on the focus islands. The
health sector delivered its outputs so late in the project that their outcome could not be
assessed, and two of the four subcomponents are unlikely to have a lasting impact. The

                                            14
employment component which accounted for only 2 percent of the final project
expenditures did not have an impact on employment, although some infrastructure is now
in place for future service provision. The multipurpose buildings have provided
significant addition of community resources on the island but the overall impact on CBOs
was less than planned. While the potential for realizing benefits of the investments that
have been put in place over the long term exists, the long delays in implementation have
postponed the returns on investment and reduced their rate of return.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.     The project was implemented on four remote atolls with the express objective of
correcting regional disparities and developing regions that were backward relative to
Male. Within islands, choices were similarly made in favor of backward and poorer
communities. For example, a decision was made to improve facilities in the poorly
performing Qatar Amir school situated in a poor and problematic section of the island of
La. Gan and the beneficiary assessment confirms that the situation in the school has
improved significantly since project inception. The provision of different kinds of
technology (computers, internet facilities, smart boards, etc) has helped fast track the
technological revolution on the otherwise isolated islands. The IT resource centers that
have been established in schools are being used as training centers for students, teachers
and parents alike. IT technicians from the schools, hospitals and the island office were
trained in the maintenance of computer hardware. The construction of residential learning
centers is particularly beneficial to female students who were expected to perform
household chores while rooming with host families on the islands where they attended
secondary school. The MPBs have provided several new spaces for use by members of
the community, including women, youth and NGOs, offering new opportunities for social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     On assuming office, the newly elected democratic government revamped the
organizational structure of all the implementing agencies. A single donor project office
was created to which several staff working in the IHDP PMC have been appointed, in
view of their project management, financial and administrative skills. The project
provided a considerable amount of training, both to staff of the implementing agencies
(e.g. PMC, MOE, MOFT, MOHFW) and those in the field who were required to manage
sub-components – e.g IT staff, job counselors, principals and teachers, community
medical dispensers, etc. Several staff with new skills and project management experience
are now available to the system, especially the MOE. However, several trained staff also
left government service for jobs in the private sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

50.  The creation of two substantial new facilities to be managed at the island level
(MPBs and RLCs) has had the unintended benefit of giving the recently constituted

                                           15
island councils a source of recurring income and an opportunity to test their governance
and management skills. The island councils are receiving income from renting MPB
spaces such as the internet café, meeting and seminar rooms and lodging facilities. A gym
in each MPB is being managed from the revenue generated by gym fees. Participation by
the island community, including women and NGOs in the management of the facilities is
also already in evidence and will provide a good training ground in democracy at the
local level.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

51.      As part of the M&E framework, beneficiary assessments were carried out in 2006
(baseline), 2008 (mid-term) and 2011 (final). The assessment included a citizen report
card (CRC) through structured interviews on the quality and adequacy of project services
among students (grades 8-10), their parents and hospital users (1200 interviews). It also
included a community scorecard (CSC) through focus group discussions with students,
parents, job seekers, hospital users and community based organizations. The main finding
of the assessment was that there was a general perception in the community that public
social services had improved over the project period. Reasons identified for improvement
in education services were mostly linked to better buildings and facilities, mainly
provided by IHDP. Reasons for dissatisfaction with education services were related to
insufficient or poorly qualified teachers, high turnover and poor student behavior. The
majority of respondents (61 percent) also acknowledged that health services had
improved in the last 5 years. The main reasons cited for improvement were better
facilities and improved treatment although these could not be linked directly to IHDP
inputs. High staff turnover and lack of specialists were continuing concerns, and
anticipation for use of telemedicine was high.

52.     There was no perceived improvement in employment opportunities on the islands
or assistance from Job Centers. Most job-seekers were looking for white collar jobs and
local work opportunities. They were interested in the training and other services that had
been promised by the Job Centers, but had not yet benefitted from them at the time of the
survey. Most beneficiaries were appreciative of the additional furniture and equipment
provided under the project although there were complaints about the delay in completion
of civil works and consequently in the installation of equipment, some of which
deteriorated from long storage, and some quality aspects5.




5
  It should be noted that while there were some issues in construction, the overall quality of project financed works is high. The
community in Naifaru has been agitating to use the RLC as a community housing project and has made no effort to find students from
primary islands, but the Ministry of Education is now aware of the issue and has taken responsibility for advertising the spaces.
Similarly all the island communities have taken charge of and are benefitting from the MPBs despite numerous complaints cited
during the beneficiary assessment.



                                                               16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

53.      Infrastructure financed under the project (accounting for about two-thirds of the
investment) has all been taken over by the respective island councils/school management
and are mostly functional at the time of project closing. Teacher Resource Centers and
Telemedicine Centers are now part of a larger nationwide initiative to sustain them at the
level of the Ministries of Health and Education respectively. There has been some
capacity building with regard to school assessments, project management, and vocational
training. The election of the island councils and participation of the community in the
management of the buildings are positive indicators for the continued maintenance and
utilization of the facilities. The risk to development outcome is rated moderate because
most of the investments have only recently become operational and there was not enough
time during project implementation to observe and stabilize their operation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

54.     The Bank did well in listening to client priorities and aligning the project to an
existing Government strategy to develop safe islands. The Bank also arranged for a PPF
to support the client in project preparation. Beneficiary assessments provided for input
from two of the islands. However, the Bank did not fully recognize the uniqueness of
each island and allowed the Government of Maldives to adopt a cookie cutter approach in
project design. The Bank team also underestimated the difficulties of island based
development in a highly centralized setting. Island level ownership and commitment
were identified as prime requisites for success from lessons learned in other Bank
operations, but the project’s mechanism of dealing with it through feedback loops during
beneficiary assessments proved to be inadequate.

55.     The original PDO was overly ambitious and the project design unduly complex
involving four implementing agencies and over fifteen sub-components.                The
involvement of several ministries not only complicated coordination, but also resulted in
lack of ownership for some of the implementing agencies. Moreover the sub-components
included several ambitious new initiatives (island development plans, telemedicine,
community pharmacies, Job Centers, microfinance), often based on pilots funded by
other donors, for which capacity was not available in the implementing agencies and even
more so on the islands. The PAD failed to identify important risks: a highly centralized
government in a context of distant island populations, weak capacity below the highest
levels in government and lack of qualified personnel on the islands.



                                           17
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

56.     The project was supervised regularly and with a fairly stable team (the same Task
Team Leader from preparation to the original closing date of the project). The Bank
advised the Government on technical and implementation matters, including on
procurement and legal remedies such as the cancellation of contracts for non-
performance, following Bank due process which requires a series of steps and time to
allow for a contractor to be dismissed. Overall, the Bank team responded quickly to
requests for no-objections and clearances but given the combination of institutional
capacity constraints and shortages of construction labor and materials, the delays could
not be fully made up for. Supervision aide-memoires generally identified the important
issues, were forthright about delays and non-performance and missions met regularly
with senior government officials to communicate findings and propose actions/solutions.
Power point presentations summarizing mission findings were used effectively at wrap-
up meetings. The supervision teams might have benefited from the addition of a civil
engineer since two-thirds of the credit proceeds were spent on infrastructure investments.
However, the project’s complex design made it necessary to bring in large teams for
supervision which became increasingly difficult in the context of limited supervision
budgets and high travel costs. With the benefit of hindsight, perhaps the Bank should
have sought to enforce a major restructuring at mid-term, ensuring the transfer of
implementation responsibilities to the islands and simplifying components, rather than
merely making recommendations in this regard. However, the practical difficulties of
cancelling or modifying existing contracts, redefining the relationship between central
ministries and island managements (then in a state of transition), and establishing new
fund flow and accountability mechanisms in the Maldivian context cannot be
underestimated. Supervision of fiduciary aspects took place regularly and frequently from
Sri Lanka, which made it cost effective. However the fact that these reviews sometimes
took place independently of the main mission meant that there was some loss of synergy
in monitoring the implementation of the recommendations. Collaboration with WHO for
implementation of the telemedicine sub-component proved extremely difficult with
lawyers on each side refusing to accept certain clauses in the contract. The collaboration
was abandoned in favor of concomitant support for the initiative by the two agencies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

57.     Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory because it failed at the
design and appraisal stage to appreciate the implementation difficulties of a complex
project in a low capacity setting. The task team was diligent in terms of regular
supervision, trouble shooting and detailed documentation. The beneficiary assessment
notes that the regular attention provided by the Bank contributed to project outcomes.
However the Bank team failed to suitably amend project indicators and to force a
restructuring that ensured island ownership of the project. The tsunami and presidential
elections both contributed in some extraordinary delays in implementation. However, the
highly centralized design (mandated to a large extent by the Government’s administrative
structure at the time of project preparation) and an overly ambitious project design

                                            18
covering several ministries and many new concepts renders Bank performance
moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

58.     The tsunami which hit the Maldives soon after project effectiveness derailed the
momentum that had been built during the preparation phase. Moreover, the highly
centralized management of the project and limited capacity in the implementing agencies
began taking their toll by way of delays and false starts 6. At the start of the project, the
MoFT and MOE assumed leadership with a strong Bank financed project office that was
managing the Third Elementary Education Project and led by a dynamic project
coordinator acting as secretariat. A high quality and detailed project implementation plan
was prepared as a blueprint for the project. However, the project coordinator was
changed in the second year of project implementation. As a result of the project
coordination role being assigned to the Ministry of Education, some of the other
implementing agencies soon lost a sense of ownership of the project. The Project Steering
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Education, was likewise unable to elicit
cooperation or accountability from the other implementing agencies. The presidential
elections of 2008 led to a further slowdown in government activity for much of
2008/2009. Donor funded initiatives to strengthen the oversight of foreign assisted
projects in the MoFT were not successful as a result of high staff turnover and lack of
capacity in the agency. As a result, there was little follow up by the MOFT although all
the wrap-up meetings were chaired by the Minister of Finance or his deputy who were
fully apprised of the issues and actions needed to address them.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

59.    The Ministry of Education was the main implementing agency both because it
managed the largest share of the investment and because it was home to the PMC unit.
The PMC performed well at the start and toward the end of the project. However, during
the main implementation phase, several key staff were absent due to long term or
frequent overseas training. Civil works and procurement managed by the PMC were
delayed but in large part due to reasons outside their control. The PMC conducted
regular review meetings with the implementing agencies but was unable to get them to
improve their performance. Island representatives (council members, NGOs) however
complained of lack of communication with the PMC.

60.    The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare lost a key staff member (who had
been involved in project preparation) to the private sector early in the implementation


6
    For example, multigrade, job matching service, broadband network for which preparation started early were subsequently dropped.



                                                                 19
phase and the health component languished until the first reorganization of the Ministry
after the new government assumed office in 2009. A new externally funded projects
office became active in late 2009, coordinators were assigned for each of the sub-
components, and the Director General of Health Services assumed a leadership role.
However limited capacity in the Ministry and poor communication with the islands
continued to hamper speedy project implementation. Continued reorganization of the
ministry including the corporatization of hospitals and the implementation of a voluntary
retirement policy led to further erosion of trained staff. The ministry persisted with
attempts to implement the community pharmacy component long after it became obvious
that it could not be successful. However it succeeded in expanding the standard
operating procedures approach countrywide, to cover other diseases besides NCDs with
other sources of funding and to integrate their use in a patient information system, as well
as in expanding telemedicine facilities to 35 centers nationwide. The institutionalization
and effective use of these resources in the coming years remains a challenge.

61.     The Ministry of Employment had the least capacity of the implementing agencies
and despite considerable input from consultants funded by other donors besides the Bank,
was unable to establish a job matching service or effectively run job centers. Private
partners are being sought to manage these resources. Some other sub-components such as
the labor force survey and job matching website had to be dropped.

62.    The Ministry of Atolls Development was abolished around mid-term and its
functions with regard to the project (viz. building capacity of community based
organizations on the focus islands) were de facto not assumed by any other agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

63.     The Government and the implementing agencies failed to address issues in a
timely manner to ensure successful project implementation. Not only did the agencies
lack capacity, but staff were frequently absent or traveling on project funded training or
other business. The MOFT, in particular, did not provide the necessary leadership even
though it was fully apprised of the issues. However, there were important extenuating
circumstances and events outside the control of government such as the tsunami and
presidential elections which seriously disrupted project implementation. The complex
nature of the project involving several implementing agencies and many new concepts, as
well as the remote island geography compounded implementation difficulties and would
have been challenging even in a country with greater human resource capacity than the
Maldives.




                                            20
6. Lessons Learned
64.      Several lessons learned include: i) the most effective way to improve services in
island economies is to develop ownership and accountability at the community level7; ii)
lack of coordination among different implementing ministries can lead to slow project
execution; (iii) Further, genuine decentralization or transfer of authority with
accountability is required to effectively address the issue of ownership by subordinate
implementing agencies. An important corollary is that small or medium size civil works
located on remote islands should be managed and supervised by island level
leadership/management. Island communities have successfully managed a wide variety of
civil works, can provide close supervision, direct small but important design changes and
ensure the accountability of the contractor. For large works, a tandem arrangement, with
initial design and bidding responsibilities at the central level, but supervision/payment
authorization at the island level, may work better than management through an external
contractor, who has no accountability at the island level. The lack of authority at the local
level also meant that the islands looked to the center to fix even the smallest of
problems/repairs (iv) Keeping project design simple is another recurring theme that is
most often observed in the breach. Besides involving several sectors, IHDP involved too
many new concepts and untested initiatives that would have taxed even a country with
greater human resource capacity than the Maldives. (v) Procurement training/capacity
building for implementing agencies would need to pay more attention to the contract
management aspects of procurement. All actors, including Ministries of Finance, need to
be on board to successfully manage contracts. (vi) As for financial management, the
project should have ensured that the FM capacity is built upfront, and the Bank needs to
take a proactive role in monitoring the implementation of the FM action plan.(vii)Projects
should not rely extensively on human resources that are to be trained during the project
for purposes of project implementation. Where staff of implementing agencies needs to
be trained, on-the job training with the help of consultant trainers may work better than
deputing a large number of staff frequently or on long training programs during the
project period. (viii) Despite efforts to improve collaboration among UN agencies and to
rationalize documentation across agencies, the difficulty in signing a contract with WHO
for the telemedicine component shows how much more improvement is needed in this
regard.




7
  The ease with which island councils fixed all the minor outstanding works and rented out spaces in the
MPBs once the ownership issue between the provinces and the islands was resolved in their favor and
buildings were handed over to them, compared with the complaints and acrimony at the time of the
beneficiary assessment when the building ownership was yet undecided, is the best testimony to the impact
of ownership at the island level.


                                                   21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No comments.




                                     22
                        Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

  COMPONENTS                Appraisal Estimate         Revised Budget      Actual Budget
                            (US$M) Percent            (US$M) Percent      (US$M) Percent
Education Services              7.25        46           6.68       53       5.88      55

Health Services                  1.99          13        1.08         8       0.80        7
Employment Services              1.11           7        0.59         5       0.26        2
Community Services               3.17          20        1.72        14       1.41       13
Monitoring and                   1.16           7        0.86         7       0.82        9
Evaluation
Project Management               1.08          7         1.65        13       1.54       14
Total Project Costs             15.76        100        12.58       100      10.71      100

Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD


(b) Financing

                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of co-      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                         financing         (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                         millions)    millions)
Borrower                                              2.74         0.00         .00
International Development
                                                      12.58       10.71        .00
Association (IDA)




                                              23
                      Annex 2. Outputs by Component

         Component                                  Outputs

Education Services         i. School infrastructure:
                           Eydafushi: additional block including classrooms, multi-
                           purpose rooms, ICT lab, Teacher Resource Center.
                           Naifaru: Renovations and additions, Teacher Res. Center
                           ii. Furniture and equipment to all focus schools
                           iii. Educational materials to all focus schools and select
                           primary schools
                           iv. One year overseas diploma training for eight master
                           trainers
                           v.124 teachers received in-service training
                           vi. 40 school principals one year leadership training
                           program
                           vii. IT training and librarian training for focus schools
                           viii. Two residential learning centers constructed and
                           furnished; operational guidelines prepared
                           ix. Annual school supervisions by ESQID
                           x. Student assessments of grades 4 and 7 completed
Health Services            i. Standard Operating Procedures and Standard Treatment
                           Protocols developed for non-communicable diseases and
                           built into single Patient Information System. Health staff
                           in hospitals trained in their use. Mass media
                           communication campaign for NCD prevention organized.
                           ii. Telemedicine centers established in focus islands.
                           iii. Ten IT technicians trained
                           iv. Twenty-one community pharmacy paramedics trained
                           and 11 community pharmacies opened
                           v. Nutrition promotion materials reproduced, training
                           conducted on focus islands for community health nurses
                           vi. Staff trained in nutrition surveillance
Employment Services        i. Four Job Centers established and equipped.
                           ii. One staff member trained in job counseling in Sri
                           Lanka
                           iii. Job counseling sessions carried out in focus schools
                           iv. TVET curriculum developed for seven trades
                           v. TVET training carried out for 40 persons on four
                           islands




                                    24
        Component                                 Outputs

Community Services        i. Multipurpose buildings constructed and operational on
                          two islands
                          ii. Island development plans developed for 3 islands and
                          partially funded on Eydafushi
                          iii. CBOs from each focus island completed training visits
                          to successful NGO projects on other islands
Monitoring & Evaluation   Baseline, mid-term and final evaluations using the citizen
                          score card and beneficiary evaluation format completed
Project Management        OECD Masters degrees and advance diplomas for ten
                          staff; short term training; equipment and supplies




                                   25
                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      At the time of appraisal, the economic analysis assumed that the principal benefits
arising from the project would be to increase access to and quality of secondary education,
access and quality of care for non-communicable diseases, improve nutrition, reduce
labor market information gaps and promote faster school to work transition, and
strengthen the range of local government services on the project atolls. The project has
succeeded in putting in place the infrastructure for reaping the above benefits, but the
degree to which the benefits will actually accrue is difficult to estimate or quantify at this
time. The sector-wise prospects for project benefits are discussed below.

2.      In the education sector, which accounted for 55 percent of project costs,
significant improvements were made to the secondary school infrastructure on each focus
island. The classroom and teaching facilities have made a qualitative difference to the
schooling experience of students on three of the four focus islands as testified in the
beneficiary assessment. Teacher Resource Centers have been constructed and eighty
percent of secondary school teachers on the focus islands have been trained, though not
in the intensive manner originally planned. The Government of Maldives is proposing to
enter into a public-private partnership for operating these centers in the future. The two
Residential Learning Centers funded by the project will improve access to secondary
schools for students on primary islands. Overall the investments will produce benefits in
terms of increased secondary school enrolment, improved learning outcomes and
consequently improved human capital in the Maldives.

3.      In health, improved treatment of non-communicable diseases and the availability
of telemedicine on the focus islands is likely to result in savings in terms of disease
burden, medicine, treatment and travel costs. Nutrition education and training could
likewise yield benefits in terms of reduced malnutrition in the under five year olds. The
sustainability of community pharmacies, however, is uncertain.

4.       While Job Centers have been established, the manpower required to operate them
at their full potential is not yet in place. The Government is still trying to identify suitable
NGOs/private partners who will be able to manage the centers. Meanwhile, the centers
have succeeded in providing a modest level of service by way of information, vocational
training and counseling services.

5.     New public services have been provided through the construction of multi-
purpose buildings. These buildings have the potential for a substantial income stream
from rental income that will not only cover maintenance costs but will provide some
income for the island councils. Internet cafes, libraries and gyms have been opened.
Community based organizations have been provided spaces from which to work. Small
community development projects were implemented on Ba. Eydafushi.

6.     The likely end of project value of the four social benefits quantified at the time of
appraisal is as follows:

                                              26
                               Benefit                                          Appraisal Estimate
    Containment in the rise of unit costs in education                         Rf 11 m/yr
    Savings in public and private expenditure on drugs                         Rf 8-38 m/yr
    Lower travel cost for medical treatment from telemedicine                  Rf 1-3 m/yr
    Rationalization of public services                                         Rf 1m

7.       In terms of values at the time of project closing, containment in the rise of unit
costs in education as a result of the Government’s school rationalization policy of
restricting secondary schools to focus islands is close to zero8 as the government changed
the policy before the presidential elections. Primary islands were permitted to open
grades 8-10 if the number of potential grade 8 students was greater than 5. There is no
basis at the present time to estimate the savings in expenditure on drugs from improved
treatment of NCDs or the opening of community pharmacies. Similarly, as the
telemedicine system has only recently become operational and administrative details are
yet to be worked out, the current number of cases (13 to date) is too low to yield the
estimated benefits. In a nutshell, the estimated benefits are lower than at appraisal, but in
view of the substantial benefits listed, is likely to result in a positive NPV/ERR.




8
  Some primary islands may chose to use the facilities on the focus island despite eligibility to expand their
schools


                                                     27
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Qaiser Khan                    Lead Social Protection Specialist SASHD
Harsha Aturupane               Lead Education Specialist         SASED
Sumith Pilapitiya              Lead Environmental Specialist     SASDI
Gandham N.V. Ramana            Lead Health Specialist            AFTHE
Laura Kiang                    Operations Officer                SASHD
Rasmus Heltberg                Sr Technical Spec.                 SDV
Sheila Braka-Musiimi           Legal Counsel                     LEGSM
Rajat Narula                   Sr. Finance Officer               EAPFM
Hiran Herat                    Sr. FM Specialist                 SASDI
Meenakshy Santhadevi           Consultant                        SASDT
Deepal Fernando                Procurement Specialist            ECSO2
Richard Beardmore              Sr. Urban Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Qaiser M. Khan                 Sector Lead Economist             AFTSP
Andrea Vermehren               Sr. Social Protection Specialist  SASSP
Harsha Aturupane               Lead Education Specialist        SASED
Jayshree Balachander           Consultant                       SASHD
Michael Maurice Engelgau       Sr Public Health Spec.           SASHN
Deepal Fernando                Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS
Susrutha Pradeep Goonesekera   Social Protection Economist       SASSP
Rasmus Heltberg                Sr. Technical Spec.                SDV
Manoj Jain                     Sr. Financial Management Spec SARFM
Zarafshan H. Khawaja           Senior Social Development Spec OPCQC
Laura M. Kiang                 Consultant                       SASHD
Krishna Pidatala               Senior Operations Officer        TWICT
Sumith Pilapitiya              Lead Environmental Specialist     SASDI
Munirul Islam Quzi             Voice Secondee                   SASHD
Gandham N.V. Ramana            Lead Health Specialist           AFTHE
Najfa Shaheem Razee            Consultant                       SACMV
Richard G. Scurfield           Consultant                        SASSP
Supul Chamikara Wijesinghe     Financial Management Specialis SARFM
Miriam Witana                  Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
Asif Ali                       Sr. Procurement Specialist       SARPF
Sunethra Chan. Samarakoon      Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Aminath Inasha Shafeeq         Operations Analyst               SACMV




                                            28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
             FY03                                                        155.39
             FY04                                                        121.47
                          Total:                                         276.86
Supervision/ICR
              FY05                               17.21                    52.01
              FY06                               21.29                    67.44
              FY07                               18.43                   100.50
              FY08                               18.90                   166.71
              FY09                                9.40                    63.35
              FY10                               11.88                   107.41
              FY11                                4.68                    49.76
                          Total:                                         607.78




                                            29
                               Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.      Three rounds of beneficiary assessments were conducted in 2006, 2008 and 2011,
on each of the four focus islands as part of the monitoring and evaluation component,
corresponding to the baseline, midterm and final evaluation of the project. Each
beneficiary assessment consisted of a quantitative survey of about 1200 beneficiaries
using Citizen Report Cards and 40 focus group and key informant interviews using
Community Score Cards. The results of the final survey with regard to each of the focus
islands are described below.

2.      Ba. Eydafushi is an atoll capital with a population of about 3,500 people. The
main sources of livelihood on the island are in the service sector and several inhabitants
work in nearby resorts. Satisfaction levels with education services are high (82%) and
improved since the start of the project (63%). About 94% agreed that education services
had improved in the last five years. Residents are proud that their high school is
considered one of the best in the Maldives. There was appreciation for project inputs
including additional classrooms and new equipment in the school which helped make
lessons more interesting. There is a great demand for places in the high school from
primary island students and they expect high demand for the spaces in the Residential
Learning Center, which was completed only in June 2011. The school management was
dissatisfied with some quality aspects of the school construction and some of the
equipment that was supplied by the project. They expressed dissatisfaction at not being
able to supervise the contractor during construction.9 About 60 percent of the hospital
users on the island felt that services had improved during the last five years, especially
due to improved facilities, although at the time of the survey, improvements to the
hospital could not be attributed to IHDP inputs. There was not much awareness about the
services of the Job Center. While there were several complaints of the quality of the MPB,
the island councilors were very anxious to be given ownership of the building and had
taken steps to lease out several spaces. Eydafushi was also the only island to benefit
from community development projects under an Island Development Plan.

3.       Lh. Naifaru is a small, densely populated island (4,850 inhabitants), a section of
which is on reclaimed land. The community is divided into two political factions with
the island council dominated by members from the opposition party. Diverse sources of
livelihood are available through fishing and other private and public sector economic
activities on and near the island. However crime rates and drug abuse are higher than on
other islands. The Naifaru school received fewer inputs than the other schools in terms of
infrastructure (one classroom and a Teacher Resource Center). One of the master trainers
had several complaints about the teacher training program and in particular the funding
arrangements. There was a tussle in the community about the use of the Residential
Learning Center in 2009/10 with several residents requesting that it be used as a local



9
    The supervision was managed by an engineering consulting firm appointed by the PMC


                                                   30
housing project. The Government had to step in with a separate housing project which is
now almost completed and this has resulted in greater willingness in the community to
put the RLC to its original use. The majority of respondents believed that health services
had improved in the last five years. The Job Center in Naifaru was inaugurated by the
President in 2009 and was fairly active, including NGO management since 2010. The
beneficiaries were somewhat satisfied with access to TVET training. There were several
complaints about the MPB during the beneficiary survey, mainly relating to quality and
ownership issues, but the need for the building was obvious and spaces were rented out
even before the issues raised were fully resolved. The vesting of ownership with the
island council has helped resolve issues.

4.      Dh. Kudahuvadhoo is both an Atoll and Provincial headquarters with a population
of about 3000 after the relocation of inhabitants of two tsunami affected islands,
Gemendhoo and Vaanee. The island has successfully integrated the new communities,
and the new head of the island is from one of the resettled communities. The island
received considerable education infrastructure (civil works funded by the EU) which has
permitted the school to move to a single shift system and to add higher secondary grades
11-12. All this has led to satisfaction with education services. Beneficiaries also
expressed satisfaction with health services and felt that hospital services had improved in
the last five years. SOPs were being used and the telemedicine center was in place,
though the administrative arrangements with IMGH were yet to be put in place at the
time of the assessment. The Job Center, while officially open since 2009 has been
languishing for want of qualified staff. There are three active CBOs on the island, but
they felt they lacked capacity to prepare proposals and raise funding for their activities.
The MPB (also funded by the EU) has been occupied by the province office leading to
much dissatisfaction among the island councilors.

5.       La. Gan is one of the largest of the safe islands in the Maldives and has about
4000 inhabitants. It has three distinct communities that have widely varying socio-
economic profiles and are notorious for their rivalry and lack of cooperation. The
situation was further aggravated by the resettlement of tsunami affected people who now
make up a fourth village on the island. There is considerable improvement in satisfaction
with education services since the start of the project. IHDP inputs to the school were well
appreciated and the community perceives a dramatic improvement in student behavior.
The RLC, however, is perceived as likely to be under utilized as there is little demand
from outsiders for spaces at the school at the present time. The community proposed
utilizing the spaces for expatriate teachers on the island and teachers and other trainees.
A majority of hospital users believe that the hospital has improved in the past five years,
and access from the primary islands has improved dramatically with the introduction of a
public ferry system. The SOPs/STPs have been utilized since their introduction in 2009
at this hospital. However high turnover of doctors was a matter of concern. As a Regional
hospital, Gan is playing a mentoring role to smaller hospitals in the atoll via telemedicine.
However it is not receiving support as yet from IGMH. School leavers complained about
the lack of government office jobs on the island. The Job Center was not functional for
most of the project as suitable staff could not be found. The communities on the island
did not come together to develop and IDP and no MPB was funded under the project.

                                             31
                          Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Overview

1.     The Government of Maldives embarked on a forward looking long term strategy
to develop economically, environmentally and socially sustainable Centers offering
people an alternative to Male’ and the capital region, to diversify growth opportunities
and improve the quality of life.

2.       As an initial step in this process, the Government proposed to improve the quality
of services in selected environmentally sustainable four focus islands, namely
B.Eydhafushi, Dh.Kudahuvadhoo,L.Gan and Lh.Naifaru. Within each atoll, the focus
islands are located in close proximity to the primary islands that it serves in order to
facilitate transport to and from the focus island. These focus islands would be the
precursor of future centers offering people an alternative to Male’ and the capital region.
The focus island approach is subject to many risks of which the leading risk may be the
continued preference to use Male’ over other centres.

3.      This risks were escalated by the recent tsunami disaster which affected many
islands in Maldives tragically, leading to increased migration to Male’ as well as other
factors that are beyond the control of the Project such government restructuring and
unavailability of qualified and capable staff in the focus islands. In order to minimise the
risk associated with tsunami, the Government initiated a safe island policy under which
focus islands with additional environmental and disaster preparedness elements would be
created in each atoll. These safe islands are currently being developed to accommodate
displaced populations and would ultimately become the safe havens for the people of the
atoll should any further disasters such as the tsunami strike. However, the risks associated
with other factors continued.

4.       The development objectives of this project are to:

     (a) improve social outcomes and promote economic growth by strengthening the
         delivery of social services (education, health and nutrition services) available to
         the population;
     (b) reduce poverty and promote regional equity by strengthening social service
          delivery and increasing economic opportunities in atolls remote from the Male’
          region; and
     (c) promote ecologically sustainable development by concentrating services and
         populations on ecologically viable islands within these atolls.

5.     The Government of Maldives (GOM) selected 4 islands to pilot its strategy to
achieve the above objectives. These islands possess the potential to develop into
economic and social centres that would offer people an alternative to the capital island,
Male. These four focus islands are Baa Atoll Eydhafushi, Lhaviyani Atoll Naifaru, Laam
Atoll Gan, and Dhaal Atoll Kudahuvadhoo.


                                             32
(i) Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation, and operational
experience

Assessment of Objectives

6.      Several changes occurred since the design and implementation of IHDP, as a
result number of activities were dropped resulting changes in some of the objectives of
the project. One of the objectives of Education Component was to provide access to
secondary education in a cost effective manner. Thus, under the project RLCs were built
to help students from others islands to stay with a parent or guardian. However, after the
implementation due to some changes that occurred in the education policies, secondary
schooling was started in number of primary islands resulting in parents’ reluctance to
send their children to the focus islands for studies. Additionally multi-grade teaching was
originally in the plan of IHDP and later cancelled after a study which showed it is not
feasible to carry on multi-grade teaching in Maldives. Multi-grade teaching was also
considered something that could help providing access to education in a cost effective
manner, especially to the small islands where there are less number of students. Therefore,
it is questionable whether the objective of providing access to education in a cost
effective manner was still applicable under IHDP.

7.    As for the Health Component, Nutrition component was revised and there were
very minor activities carried out under IHDP. Hence, the activities carried out under
IHDP seem to be not material enough to meet objective of nutrition component of IHDP.

Assessment of Design

8.     Numbers of activities were duplicated with funds from other projects such as
ADB and UNICEF. For instance, under UNICEF there were some TRCs built including
two of the IHDP focus islands resulting duplication of resources which would have been
used for other vital activities. This also resulted in none of the TRCs functioning properly
leading resources wastage. Thus, it seems there is lack of integration and coordination
among the various implementing agencies of the project at the design stage. Moreover,
MHRYS was implementing a project funded by ADB which had similar activities of
Employment Component of IHDP that hindered the activities if IHDP to a certain extent
as MHRYS had to concentrate on two projects at the same time while they were
understaffed.

9.      It was also noted that the project was over ambitious and complicated with too
many technically new activities. Activities like TRCs, RLCs, Telemedicine, setting-up
Community Pharmacies and Job Centres were new concepts in Maldives. It became a
challenge in getting the required expert knowledge, necessary equipment and
infrastructure as well as the required personnel. Thus, too many implementing agencies
and too many new activities added to hindrance of the performance of IHDP.

10.     The project was focused on 4 islands that lacked the necessary capacity and
expertise however, the trainings that were planned were too technical or specialised that it

                                            33
was impossible to get required candidates from the islands. Trainings like Laboratory
Technician Trainings, Career Counseling and Entrepreneurship Development were
diploma level courses that had to be completed within the region. However, it was later
noted that such level trainings are not offered in the region and those kinds of trainings
were much specialised trainings normally undertaken by people with higher education
degrees.

Implementation and Operational Experience

11.    IHDP could be said as one of the most challenging projects that was completed in
Maldives. The project had number of stakeholders and coordination became difficult
most of the times. Additionally, there was the issue of ownership as other implementing
agencies had projects in which they managed completely and IHDP was considered a
project of Ministry of Education. Hence, sometimes it was apparent that though the
Component of a particular implementing agency is managed by them, the activities under
IHDP were not a priority for other implementing agencies.

12.     Furthermore, there was the issue of contract administration as most of the times
PMC was unable to penalise the contractors due to instructions given by the executing
agency (Ministry of Finance and Treasury). Sometimes it took a long time for an issue to
be solved due to lack of response from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The delay
in Civil Works was more than doubled and so does the cost which hindered the
performance of the whole project as there were various other activities that were tied with
the buildings.

13.     Changes in polices resulted in additional barrier to the smooth functioning of the
project; in the case of education component, changes in polices resulted in Teacher
Trainers being located to other government posts. Additionally, some of the issues were
never solved by the end of the project due to lack of response from the concerned
Department of Ministry of Education. The case of a Teacher Trainer who did not serve
government was never solved despite the fact that various discussions were held with the
concerned officials and despite that fact that several letters were sent to the concerned
government agencies. This demotivated those Teacher Trainers who were in-service to
perform to their maximum level, who were already demoralised due to various other
reasons.

14.     Changes in key staff of the project at various stages of the project also affected
the performance of the project. To start with, during the project life the key staff in the
procurement unit of PMC was changed 4 times (two left for better paid jobs and one left
for further studies on his own funding). Moreover, the project accountant was changed 3
times (two left for better paid jobs) during the project life. The high staff turnover was
due to the fact that there were other projects that emerged in the other Ministries with
attractive pay packages and better career opportunities. Furthermore, key focal point of
MoHF and MHRYS also left for better opportunities.




                                            34
(ii) Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives 10

The table below shows the outcomes of the project against the agreed objectives of the project.

OUTCOMES OF THE PROJECT

  OUTCOME                        INDICATOR               PERFORMANCE                                                             AGENCY
1 Improve Educational          a Increase in citizen     Based on the survey of Mid-term M&E, 49% parents are PMC/OPM
  Services                       satisfaction with       fully/mostly satisfied with the education their child is receiving. The
                                 educational services    M&E final evaluation shows that 62%% of parents are mostly
                                 on focus islands, as    satisfied with educational services. It shows that though it didn’t
                                 measured by Citizen     increase by 30%, there is a huge increase in satisfaction rate (13%)
                                 Report Cards and        compared to the delays in the project.
                                 Community Score
                                 Cards, by 30% by
                                 EOP.
                               b Increase in secondary   Total enrolment in grades 8-10 in the focus islands are: MOE/PMC
                                 (Grade 8-10)            898(Eydhafushi: 238, Gan 267, Kudahuvadhoo 160 and Naifaru
                                 enrolments on focus     233) in 2009, 1187 in 2008, 1,114 in 2007. This shows a drop in
                                 islands by 25% by       enrolment compared to the baseline figure which is 1208. The 2011
                                 EOP.                    figures are; Naifaru 215, Eydhafushi 226, Kudahuvadhoo 147 and
                                                         Gan 292, total for the 4 islands is 880 showing a further decrease.
                                                         This is due to the fact that in almost all the primary islands,
                                                         secondary schooling is available and parents are reluctant to send
                                                         their children to other islands when secondary schooling is available
                                                         on the home island.




10
  Note that these indicators are those measured by the Government of Maldives. They overlap and complement the key performance
indicators of the project.



                                                                  35
OUTCOME     INDICATOR                 PERFORMANCE                                                        AGENCY
          c Female students           Only 2 RLCs were in operation by the end of the project that also MOE/PMC
            account for at least      started only in February 2011. RLC in Kudahuvadhoo was opened in
            40% of the student        Feb 2011 occupying 12 boys and 20 girls. RLC in L.Gan is occupied
            residents in the          by some teachers and teacher trainees as there are no students who
            Residential Learning      are willing to occupy. RLC is Eydhafushi and Naifaru is yet to be
            Centres on the four       operated.
            focus islands by
            EOP.
          d Increase in O/L pass      O/L passes rates: Naifaru 39.1% in 2010, 47.2% in 2009, 26.8 in
            rates overall by 10 to    2008 and 19% is the baseline figure; Eydhafushi 62% in 2010,
            15 percentage points      30.8% in 2009, 13.6% in 2008 and 13% is the baseline figure; Gan
            by EOP                    15.3% in 2010, 21.5% in 2009, 39.3% in 2008 and 7% is the
                                      baseline figure; Kudahuvadhoo 22.9% in 2010, 19.2% in 2009,
                                      23.9% in 2008 and 34% as the baseline figure. The impact on project
                                      intervention would not be seen at this stage due to delays in
                                      implementing most of the activities of the project, the impact may be
                                      seen after the end of the project. For L.Gan the results was quite
                                      good in 2008 and then there is a decrease in 2009, which further
                                      decreased in 2010 the change in school principle have contributed to
                                      great impact on the results and management of the school. In 2008
                                      the school was having a good principle while in 2009 there was a
                                      new principle that is new to the school management.
                                      Dh.Kudahuvadhoo is the only place in which the percentage has not
                                      increased compared to the baseline figure, the reason for such a
                                      decrease in O/L pass rates of Dh.Kudahuvadhoo compared to the
                                      baseline figure is unknown
          e   Reduction in the        The gender gap based on 2009 figures: Naifaru; 22.9% (male 58.2; MOE
              gender gap in           female 35.3), Eydhafushi; 21.3% (male 41.3; female 20), Gan 6.7%
              O/Level pass rates on   (male 26.3; female 19.6), Kudahuvadhoo; 20.1% (male 30.4; female
              focus islands by 25%    10.3). The baseline figures: Naifaru; -1% (male 12; female 13),
              by EOP                  Eydhafushi; n/a, Gan 8% (male 10; female 2), Kudahuvadhoo; 9%
                                      (male 39; female 30). Data on 2010 is not available



                                              36
   OUTCOME                          INDICATOR                 PERFORMANCE                                                       AGENCY
   Improve child learning due   f   Improvement in            The baseline means score is 2.45 (out of 66 lessons observed in ESQIS
   to better teaching quality       mean ESQIS lesson         2006) and mean score across 155 lessons observed in 2007 is 2.43,
                                    observation scores on     2.19 in 2008 and 2.45 in 2009. Since lower value shows
                                    key dimensions for        improvement it has decreased in 2009.
                                    lower secondary
                                    teachers by 25% by
                                    EOP

                                    Improvement in
                                    mean grade 4 and
                                    grade 7 test results in
                                    focus schools by 25%
                                    by EOP
2 Improve health services       a   Increase in citizen       The baseline figure shows 69% of hospital users are fully/mostly      MOHF
                                    satisfaction with         satisfied and mid-term figure shows 67% and the 2011 figure shows
                                    health services on        63% are fully or mostly satisfied with health services on the focus
                                    focus islands, as         islands. Though the percentage has not improved much it shows that
                                    measured by Citizen       there is improvement on health services and most people are overall
                                    Report Cards and          satisfied with the services.
                                    Community Score           .
                                    Cards, by 30% by
                                    EOP
                                c   Reduce prevalence of      The baseline figure shows on national level 30% of children are       MOHF
                                    under-nourished           undernourished and no data on separate atolls were available for
                                    amongst children to       baseline. It is unknown how the above figure was arrived at, the
                                    less than 20% from        current staff in MOHF said that the details below shows how they
                                    reported level of 30%     check nutrition status in MOHF based on internationally set
                                    by EOP                    standards.

                                                              The 2009 nutrition figures show that:
                                                              Dhaalu Atoll- stunting 17.7%, wasting 13.5% and underweight
                                                              20.3%



                                                                       37
  OUTCOME                  INDICATOR              PERFORMANCE                                                              AGENCY
                                                  Baa Atoll- stunting 19.9%, wasting 11.5%, underweight 21.7%
                                                  Lhaviyani Atoll- stunting 11.2%, wasting 13.3%, underweight
                                                  10.9%
                                                  Laamu Atoll-stunting 20.7%, wasting 7.6%, underweight 19.0%
3 Improve Employment   a   Increase in citizen                                                                             MHRYS
  Services                 satisfaction with
                           employment services
                           on focus islands, as
                           measure by Citizen
                           Report Cards and       The baseline study showed 29% job seekers are fully or mostly
                           Community Score        satisfied with the information provided on focus islands regarding
                           Cards, by 30% by       employment opportunities. The mid-term results showed 37%. There
                           EOP                    is not much increase in satisfaction though the job centres except for
                       b   80% of 18 to 35 year   L.gan were opened it was not in operating during the final year of
                           old on focus islands   the project
                           employed or actively
                           seeking avenues of
                           income generation by
                           end of the project
                           year 5

4 Improve community    a   Increase in citizen    Based on M&E baseline study, Community Score Cards results               MoHA
  Services                 satisfaction with      show that 4 out of 16 CBO members are mostly satisfied with
                           community services     community services on their island. The mid-term results shows 12
                           on focus islands, as   out of 24 CBO members are mostly satisfied with community
                           measured by Citizen    service on their island. This shows an increase of 50% compared to
                           Report Cards and       the baseline figure. In the final evaluation 5 out of 21 CBO members
                           Community Score        were mostly satisfied with the community services on the focus
                           Cards, by 30% by       islands
                           EOP




                                                           38
  OUTCOME                           INDICATOR               PERFORMANCE                                                              AGENCY
1 School Rationalisation            Physical/ facilities    Civil works for selected schools                                         PMC
.                                   capacity of the focus   Buildings were completed and handed over in Mid 2010.
A                                   schools increased by
                                    the end of project yr   Goods, equipments and consumables for selected schools
                                    4 to cater for          All contracts were awarded and equipped by the end of the project
                                    expected change in
                                    enrolment
1 Teacher Centres                   80% of focus school     In-service training for the untrained teachers have been is on-going. CCE/MOE
.                                   secondary teachers,     The in-service trainings and workshops were conducted based on a
B                                   who have training       needs based analysis done by the teacher educators who were been
                                    needs, receiving in-    trained under IHDP. In those trainings all the teachers who were in
                                    service training by     need of trainings were included. It is not possible to come up with a
                                    the end of Project yr   percentage as every year the untrained teachers keep on changing
                                    4                       and there is always a need for retraining as every year new untrained
                                                            teachers were being recruited



          ACTIVITY               INDICATOR                         PERFORMANCE                       AGENCY             ACTION          DUE
1. C   Internet Support    80% of Lower secondary     Web portal consultancy is reallocated to 2 PMC
       for teachers        Teachers of the focus      curriculum development consultancies and later
                           schools have used web      cancelled due to unavailability of funds and
                           portal to increase their   changes in some of the objectives of education
                           skills/for educational     component
                           purposes during the last
                           two weeks

1.D    Residential         80% of RLCs to be          This was be achieved as RLCs are not fully in PMC                To make         Jan
       Learning Centres    utilised by EOP            operation yet                                                    buildings       2011
                                                                                                                       operational
                           To achieve 75%
                           satisfaction/very          The baseline figure shows that 95% of parents


                                                                     39
        ACTIVITY              INDICATOR                           PERFORMANCE                       AGENCY    ACTION         DUE
                        satisfied with the        and 84% of students fully or mostly satisfied
                        arrangements by EOP       with living arrangements of students in host
                                                  family in focus islands.
2.A   Standard Treatment 100% of relevant staff   All STPs was been developed, reprinted and MOHF
      Protocols (STPs) members have access        distributed to all relevant staff members for use
      and Standard       to copies of STPs and
      Operating          have been trained in
      Procedures (SOPs) use of STPs by EOP
2.B   Telemedicine      Telemedicine              Provision of Telemedicine service started in 10th MOHF     To check
                        consultation per          April 2011 thus no data is available yet                   status of the
                        hospital per day by                                                                  activity
                        EOP
2.C   Community         10 or more community      Procurement of medicines was completed by the MOHF
      Pharmacies        pharmacies set up by      end of the project
                        EOP
2.D   Nutrition         Increase in children      The baseline figure shows on national level MOHF
      Promotion         exclusively breast fed    10.4%, 2009 figures shows that 47.8%. No
                        up to 6 months to 30%     separate figures on the focus islands are
                        of focus islands by end   available
                        of Project yr 5

                        Number of BCC             BBC workshops in each focus is has been
                        workshops carried out     completed and requested MOHD to send
                                                  information about the number of workshops
                                                  carried out and which number to be used in the
                                                  indicator




                                                                40
       ACTIVITY                  INDICATOR                   PERFORMANCE                                               AGENCY
3. A   Job Centre                Reduce in job search        Baseline data on job search waiting time is not available MHYS
       Programme                 waiting time on focus       and since the LFS is not carried out
                                 islands by 20% by EOP

                                 Job listing and job         The baseline figure for job matching is 2 individual
                                 seekers listing in Job      matched in 2006 and for mid-term no precise information
                                 Matching Service (JMS)      was available as job matching is done in an excel sheet. In
                                 on focus islands increase   the 1st quarter of 2010, 91 jobs were matched. At the end
                                 x per quarter by end of     2010, 59 job seekers were listed out of which 8 jobs were
                                 Project Yr 3                matched centrally however, not done in focus islands.

                                 Volume of jobs listings
                                 from employers reaches      In the 1st quarter of 2010, 560 jobs were listed. At the end
                                 1000 per quarter by EOP     of 2010, 266 jobs have been listed which are based on the
                                                             information collected throughout the Maldives.
4.A    Multi-Purpose Buildings   MPBs operational by end     Not achieved as the buildings are not fully in operation yet
                                 of Project yr 4
                                                                                                                            PMC
                                 50% of MPB capacity         Currently all the PMBs are completed and handed over
                                 utilised on average         however the buildings were operationalised after the end of
                                 annually after hand-over    the project except for Kudahuvadhoo building.
                                 of building to community
4.B    Support to IDCs, WDCs     20% increase in number      Baseline figure is number of local development initiatives PMC
       and CBOs/ICs              of value of local           undertaken by CBOs is not available. CBO grants for B.
                                 development initiatives     Eydhafushi transferred to island development fund of
                                 undertaken by               Eydhafishi, funds for the projects that was not started is
                                 community based             brought back to the special account. Since the activity was
                                 organisations on focus      not started in other islands it has been cancelled during
                                 islands by EOP              march 2010.
4.C    Broadband Connection      Broadband connection to     cancelled                                                      NCIT
       to Gan installed          Gan installed.



                                                                    41
42
(iii) Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future.

Numbers of activities under this project had been delayed due to various reasons.

One of the reasons that have been observed is due to the fact that civil works contracts
were handled by mainly two contractors who were handling not only IHDP projects but
various other projects at the same time. Currently the contractors are evaluated based on
their experience and lowest price. However, it is not checked on how many projects they
are already handling and whether they can complete the projects on time. Thus, for future
projects it is suggested to include criteria in the RFP to evaluate the contractors in terms
of their current and past portfolio and the extent to which they were able to deliver the
projects on time. Due to the delays in civil works several of other activities have been
delayed impacting the overall performance of the whole project.

The other issue is retaining staffs trained from the project. This had been a major issue in
other projects as well and lessons learned in other projects had been incorporated into
IHDP. However, due to the fact that the service bond agreement that was signed between
the staff and government, which according to Attorney General is not legally acceptable,
both civil service and Attorney General’s office should coordinate and come up with an
agreement which legally binds the staff to serve government/implementing agency for the
duration of the bond. In addition, incorporating a formal procedure in the existing civil
service regulation is required to retain staffs trained under projects. Furthermore, the
procedure must also address restrains on transferring trained staffs to other offices,
especially to the private sector.

Retaining key staff throughout the project was a challenge thus there is a need to hire
experienced and qualified staff with attractive pay packages in the future projects which
would help in keeping the staff for a long duration.

Certain training courses under IHDP are not available within the region and this had also
lead to delays in implementation of certain activities of the project. Thus, it is observed
that some of the trainings were proposed without checking whether such courses are
available and what are the requirements and entry criteria for such courses. Hence, in
future it is advisable to include courses that are available within the region and also to
check the requirements and entry criteria.

Due to the political change and introduction of new laws such as the decentralization law,
some of the activities were delayed and required revisions on the management aspects of
the infrastructure build from the project. Proper coordination and extra effort is required
both from the IA and Executing Agency (EA) as to resolve such issues.

Due to the wide project scope and involvement of too many implementing agencies and
stakeholders, proper coordination between the agencies and the management of the


                                            43
project was difficult. Therefore this was identified as a significant factor for project
delays.

(iv) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, and any other partners during the
preparation and implementation of the operation, including the effectiveness of
their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

It was noted that there were various delays in getting reply from the procurement
specialists of the Bank. This could be due to the fact that the specialists were either
overloaded with work or did not have the necessary expertise to give feedback on time.
During the final year of the project there were huge delays as the Bank’s procurement
staff rarely replied to the communications from the government’s side.

Additionally it was noted that on some occasions the Bank was quite lenient in following
up on the actions agreed to be completed by certain deadlines thus, PMC faced number of
challenges in making the implementing agencies to follow the deadlines as they were
aware that there would be a new deadline after each mission.
_________________________________________




                                          44
                      Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Maldives, November 15, 2000, World
Bank

Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Maldives (FY08-FY12), December 4,
2007, World Bank

Maldives: Integrated Human Development Project Appraisal Document, May 28, 2004,
World Bank

Maldives: Integrated Human Development Project, Project Implementation Plan- Part I,
Project Management and Coordination Section, Ministry of Education, Government of
Maldives, June 2005

Maldives: Integrated Human Development Project, Project Implementation Plan- Part II,
Project Management and Coordination Section, Ministry of Education, Government of
Maldives, June 2005

Maldives Integrated Human Development Project, Ex-Post Evaluation and Impact
Assessment Study, Final Report, 30 June 2011, Oxford Policy Management

Proposal to Restructure the Maldives Integrated Human Development Project (Credit No.
3948); Project Paper, November 2006, World Bank

Republic of Maldives Integrated Human Development Project, Final Monitoring Baseline
Report, May 2007, Oxford Policy Management

Republic of Maldives Integrated Human Development Project, Mid Term Evaluation
Report, May 2008, Oxford Policy Management




                                         45
                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33442
                            71°                               72°                                73°                                        74°             75°                                76°
                                                                                                       Dhidhdhoo
                                                                             HAA ALIFU
7°                                                                                                                                                                                                   7°
                                                                         THILADHUNMATHI
                                                                           UTHURUBURI

                                                                          HAA DHAALU
                                                                        THILADHUNMATHI                       Kulhudhuffushi
                                                                         DHEKUNUBURI

                                                                                                                 SHAVIYANI
                                                                                                                         MILADHUNMADULU
            MALDIVES                                                                                                        UTHURUBURI
                                                                                                                    Funadhoo

6°                                                                                                                           NOONU                                                                   6°
                                                                                                                          MILADHUNMADULU
                                                                                                                            DHEKUNUBURI
                                                                                 Ugoofaaru                                Manadhoo
                                                                               RAA
                                                                     MAALHOSMADULU
                                                                       UTHURUBURI                                                   LHAVIYANI
                                                                                                                                FAADHIPPOLHU
                                                                                                                         Naifaru


                                                                                  Eydhafushi
5°                                                                                                                                                                                                   5°
                                                                                  BAA
                                                                         MAALHOSMADULU                el
                                                                                                   ann
                                                                          DHEKUNUBURI
                                                                                                 Ch
                                                                                              va                                KAAFU
                                                                                          rdi
                                                                                        Ka                                          MALÉ
                                                                                                                                    ATOLL
                                                                          ALIFU      Rasdhoo                                         Thulusdhoo
                                                                          ALIFU
                                                                        ARI ATHOLHU
                                                                        UTHURUGOFI                                              MALÉ
4°                                                                                                                                                                                                   4°

                                                                              Mahibadhoo
                                                                         ALIFU
                 INDIAN                                                 DHAALU
                                                                      ARI ATHOLHU                                             Fulidhoo
                                                                      DHEKUNUGOFI                                                    VAAVU
                 OCEAN                                                                                                         FELIDHE ATOLL
                                                                     FAAFU     Magoodhoo
                                                             NORTH NILANDHE
                                                                 ATOLL
3°                                                                                                                             Muli                                                                  3°
                                                                                                                                      MEEMU
                                                                             Kudahuvadhoo                                      MULAKU ATOLL
                                                                        DHAALU
                                                                    SOUTH NILANDHE
                                                                        ATOLL


                                                                                  THAA
                                                                              KOLHUMADULU

                                                                                       Veymandoo
2°                                                                                                                                                                                                   2°

                                                                                                                               Fonadhoo
                                                                                                                         LAAMU
                                                                                                               HADHDHUNMATHI

                                                                                 One and Half Degree Channel

                                                                                                           GAAFU ALIFU
                                                                                                  HUVADHU ATHOLHU
                                                                                                     UTHURUBURI
1°                                                                                                                                                                                                   1°
                                                                                                                                                            75°                                76°
                                                                                                                         Viligili




     0      25         50         75 Kilometers
                                                                               Thinadhoo
                                                                                                                                                       M A L D I VES
                                                                                GAAFU
                                                                                DHAALU
                                                                             HUVADHU ATOLL
     0            25               50             75 Miles                                                         nel
                                                                              DHEKUNUBURI                       an                                         ATOLL ADMINISTRATIVE CAPITALS
0°                                                                                                         al Ch                                  0°
                                                                                                 or    i
                                                                                           Equat                     Foamulaku
                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                           ATOLL ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                         GNAVIYANI
                                                                                      SEENU                               FOAMULAKU
                                                                                                                                                           BOUNDARIES*
                                                                                     ADDU ATOLL
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                            ATOLL
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                     Hithadhoo
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                      *Local Atoll Names shown in green;
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                          Official Atoll Names shown in white.
                                                              72°                              73°                                          74°

                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
