Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24554-RO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40960)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
2/18/2003
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 20, 2003)
Currency Unit = Romanian Leu
I Leu = US$ 0.0000296
US$ 1 = Lei 33,735
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EA            Executive Agency
EU            European Union
HE            Higher Education
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MER           Ministry of Education and Research
MPF           Ministry of Public Finance
NCEAA         National Council for Evaluation and Academic Accreditation
NHEFC         National Higher Education Finance Council
NURC          National University Research Council
MURC          Multi- User Research Center
OECD          Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development
PHRD          Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMU           Project Management Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
PTL           Program Team Leader
QER           Quality at Entry Review
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TA            Technical Assistance
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Tearn Leader:   Ana Maria Sandi



ROMANIA
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Information                                                          15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   24
Annex 7. Listof Supporting Documents                                                25
Annex 8. Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix                                26
Annex 9. Borrowers Evaluation Report                                                29






Project ID: P008793                                       Project Name: Reform of Higher Education and
Research
Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi                              TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: Februariy 17, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Reform of Higher Education and Research        L/C/TF Number: SCL-40960
Country/Department: ROMANIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (90%); Adult literacy/non-formal
education (10%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/01/1994                             Effective: 01/20/1996         01/23/1997
Appraisal:  02/05/1996                                MTR:
Approval:  09/19/1996                              Closing: 06/30/2002          09/30/2002
Borrower/limplementing Agency: ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND REESARCH
Other Partners: EUROPEAN UNION
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                          Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:.     Maureen McLaughlin                         Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:  Ana Maria Sandi                           Maurice Boissiere
ICR Primary Author:  Ana Maria Sandi; Mariana
Moarcas; Maurice Boissiere
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Olttcome: S
Sustainiability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borr-owver Petformance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall project objective was to support the Govermnent's program for reforming higher education.
Improvements were sought in: (a) the responsiveness of the system to the demands for new professional and
managerial skills required by a market economy; (b) resource allocation to generate incentives for more
efficient performance; and (c) access to higher education with increased equity for talented but needy
students. Specific objectives were to: (i) improve the capacity of the recently formed higher education
councils and the individual institutions to fulfill their responsibilities in the reform strategy; (b) develop the
new undergraduate and continuing education programs demanded by the transition to a market economy;
and (c) develop the new postgraduate education and research training needed to supply the next generation
of academic staff in high demand fields of study and the professionals with advanced training in new fields
demanded by the transition to a market economy. The objectives were not set out in the form of a logframe
matrix, since that was not in use in the Bank at that time. The objectives were supported both through
project activities and a policy matrix agreed upon during negotiations and closely monitored during project
implementation. The policy matrix, which included clear actions and means to achieve project objectives,
was regarded, along with the three project components, as an integral part of the project.
Background. The Romanian education system has a long tradition of good performance with a high level
of basic education coverage; tertiary education goes back to the middle of the 17th century, when the
Academia Vasilana was founded in 1640 by Prince Vasile Lupu, as a higher education school for Latin and
Slavonic languages. In the 19th century tertiary education in Romanian was also established. The first two
important universities were the University of Iasi, set up in 1860, and the University of Bucharest, set up in
1864. By the end of World War I, Romania had a rapidly developing tertiary education sector; laws passed
in 1924 and 1928 were aimed at integrating tertiary education as part of the larger education sector. After
1948, under the communist regime, tertiary education became part of a centrally administered structure.
Even though declared free and universally accessible, the development of tertiary education suffered from
political and ideological interference and from economic constraints over the next half century. Still, by the
1970s, seven big universities became important traditional higher education institutions in the biggest cities
(Bucharest, Cluj, Iasi, Timisoara, Craiova, Brasov, Galati) within a larger system of 42 such units.
However, entry to universities was conditioned by a tough examination and few upper secondary graduates
succeeded in gaining it; 11 percent of the age group was covered in the 1970s, enrollments almost
stagnating during the last decades of the communist regime when the higher education system along with
the entire sector deeply suffered from high political interference and lack of academic freedom. Also, given
the interdictions on contacts with the West, there was a progressive intellectual isolation and visible
obsolescence. Higher education exclusively served the needs of the centrally planned economy, focus was
placed on output-oriented specializations, especially engineering (65 percent of enrollments), while
humanities and social sciences were neglected (10 percent of enrollments) or, at some point, eliminated.
The financing of higher education programs was only subject to meeting the centrally planned enrollment
figures with no indication to performance. Higher education institutions carried out contract research for
ministries and public enterprises under a system of mandated allocation that provided little incentive for
professional excellence or relevance. Bureaucrats in the ministry of education were taking decisions that
channeled excessive training capacity in specializations for which a market economy had little need. The
system did not offer master degree studies; PhD studies were not included during regular university studies,
very little research was done in universities, most of it being hosted outside universities and students were
not involved.
-2-



In the 1990s, when the transition to a new society began, the curriculum was definitely not appropriate for
a democratic society with a market economy. Private universities, nonexistent before 1989 have sprung up
in all cities, answering to a high demand for education. Overall, the proportion of secondary school
graduates entering higher education increased from 10 percent in 1989 to over 50 percent in 1994; at the
same time, the enrollments ratio for the 18 to 24 age group increased form nine percent to more than 15
percent. Enrollments in higher education increased by 40 percent between 1989 and 1990 alone, and by 74
percent between 1990 and 1995. Enrollment in engineering programs declined sharply from 65 percent of
registered university students in 1989 to 31 percent in 1994. Enrollment in economics more than doubled its
share to 20 percent and tripled to 31 percent in sciences, social sciences and humanities. Private
universities took over a large share of the increased demand for higher education.
A Romanian designed reform. The objectives of the project were derived from the extensive sector work
and issues identified therein and agreed upon with the Government. The Romanian Consultative Group on
Higher Education, a high level commission set up by the Romanian government and financed through a
PHRD grant, prepared its own strategy that was approved by the Romanian cabinet, thus giving full
Government ownership to the strategy. In conjunction with the studies conducted by the Romanian
Consultative Group on Higher Education, the Bank also prepared a sector note following the Bank's usual
internal review procedures. The Romanian Govemment Strategy and the Bank Higher Education Sector
Note were in substantial agreement on the major issues and provided the basis for the Executive Project
Summary.
The project was also consistent with the Romania CAS (April 1994), which included the project in its
3-year time frame. Thus, the project was relevant to the Bank's country assistance strategy and also to the
country's own priorities. The Romania CAS (April 1994) stated that reform and development of
Romania's humnan resources system was essential for the sustained success of the transition to a market
economy and open society. This higher education project also complemented two other projects in the
Bank's portfolio at the time, the first being the Education Reform Project (1994) for the primary and
secondary levels of the system, and the second being the Employment and Social Protection Project (1995),
which had a large component for adult training aimed at reorienting the skills of the current labor force.
One indication of the wide spread political commitment to the project is the fact that the project was
prepared and signed by one Government, but presented to Parliament and ratified by a new Government of
the opposition parties, without delay, soon after the elections in November-December 1996, without any
controversy or modifications. This was due in part to the efforts during preparation to engage all parts of
the political spectrum in the sector analysis and preparation of the project and the fact that all of the major
parties felt higher education was imnportant for Romania's economic transition.
The strong ownership by the Government and implementing agencies was supported by the detailed
preparation, which included some piloting of the competitive system of grants and the establishment of the
higher education councils to oversee the project prior to project appraisal (February 1996).
The clarity of the bbjectives was satisfactory in terms of the actions and indicators specified in the policy
matrix for the project. Although some of the policy undertakings were complex and risky, they were
responsive to the needs and circumstances of the higher education system of Romania. For example,
introducing competitive allocation of funds into a system, which was very much politically controlled prior
to the transition, was a novel undertaking. However, the benefits were judged to be worth the risk, and the
prior sector work and pilot activities supported by a PHRD Grant helped to address this risk.
Overall, the project was a complex, demanding effort trying to address major unresolved issues in the
-3 -



higher education sector. Besides introducing a competitive grant scheme across six program areas, the
project looked into quality and financing aspects; from a sector management perspective, it also aimed at
supporting semi-autonomous councils set up within the Government strategy to replace the centralized
control of the MER with oversight of the system through intermediary "buffer" councils; close coordination
was established within the project with The National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation,
The National Council on Academic Titles and Degrees, the Higher Education Financing Council, The
National University Research Council.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had a policy matrix, The Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix, and three components:
Component I. Management Capacity Improvement (US$14.3 million)
Component II. Undergraduate and Continuing Education Programs (US$27.6 million)
Component III. Postgraduate Education Programs and Research Centers (US$ 42.1)
The Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix. The policy matrix (Annex 3 of the SAR) was agreed
upon during negotiations and included in the project in view of monitoring the long-term reform objectives
in the following areas: (i) external productivity; (ii) quality assurance; (iii) intemal efficiency; (iv) equity;
and (v) system and institution management. This matrix is aligned with the project objectives, and could be
viewed as an elaboration of the principles embodied in the Letter of Sector Development Policy sent to the
Bank by the Ministers of Education and Finance prior to negotiations of the loan (see Annex 2 of the SAR).
The matrix clearly spelled out detailed actions that remained to be implemented in order to fully achieve the
objectives. Such activities included: introduction of a normative funding formula based on enrollments and
unit costs; approval by the Government of regulations that would allow higher education institutions more
autonomy in terms of employment and remuneration of staff; incentives for full implementation of credit
systems; access of private education institutions to competitive grants for program development and
innovation; introduction of institutional development plans etc.
Overall, the design of project components was clearly linked to the project objectives, as described above.
The loan focused on supporting the Government's program for reforning higher education, promoting
diversification of financing and provision of higher education services, aiming at increasing efficiency and
equity of public investments in higher education, and improving the programs in response to changes in
student and labor market demand.
Component I: Management Capacity Improvement. This component was implemented in parallel to the
project, by the EU and GOR, using a US$ 9.6 million grant from EU and Romanian counterpart funds. The
main activities under Component I were: (a) support for the development of the HE Councils; (b) support
for the management capacity of the higher education institutions; (c) a management information system to
improve decisions making and facilitate exchange of information between the ministry, the councils and the
higher education institutions; and (d) support for project administration. The EU preparation missions and
the Romanian Higher Education Team coordinated the preparation of this component with Bank
preparation missions, but the implementation was completely parallel, rather than joint. Also, the EU chose
to have its own implementation unit. Consequently, the Bank had practically no influence on the
implementation of this component. The dialogue channels were kept open at all times, but Component I was
basically de-linked from the other two components. Some major delays in the implementation of this
component (which should have been implemented in advance of the other two) had a negative impact on the
implementation of components II and III. The main problem was the weak managerial capacity of
-4 -



universities. Aspects related to the implementation of this component as a project in itself (Phare Ro9601),
its shortcomings and its achievements, are detailed in a Final Report prepared by the EU Project
Management Unit (available in the project files).
Component II: Undergraduate and Continuing Education provided support, on a competitive basis, for
the development of new undergraduate programs. Grants were provided to three categories of sub-projects:
(a) university programs, (b) college programs , and (c) continuing education programs. The University
Programs were aimed at supporting the introduction of new curricula in fields such as business
administration, market economics, economics for engineers, applied social science, etc., and/or new
teaching methods. The College programs were aimed at developing more practically oriented courses in
the new fields relevant to local economies, e.g., small business management, tourism, etc. The Continuing
Education Programs were aimed at developing programs for working professionals, who need to acquire
new skills for the market economy, within a more flexible program setting than that of the full time
traditional university program.
Component III: Postgraduate Education and Research provided support, on a competitive basis, for the
development of new postgraduate teaching and research programs. Grants were provided to three categories
of sub-projects: (a) development of masters and doctoral programs, (b) major research programs for
university based research teams, and (c) multi-user research centers. The Masters and Doctoral Programs
were aimed at developing and modernizing post-graduate education that would update traditional fields,
such as engineering, and introduce new fields, especially interdisciplinary ones, such as business
administration and applied social sciences. The Major Research Programs were aimed at integrating
research in post-graduate training, which was seriously neglected by the universities in the past. The
Multi-User Research Centers were aimed at providing relatively expensive research equipment and
facilities that could be used for advanced research and training on a shared basis, by several academic and
other users, thereby making more efficient and effective use of scarce resources.
The choice of these components in the design of the project was based upon a sector investment approach
that would allow a demand-driven process of subproject requests from the universities as opposed to a
centrally directed approach from the MER or the councils. Lessons learned from a similar approach to
higher education in the Human Resources Project in Hungary (1991) were taken into account, as well as
similar approaches in Asia and in Latin America. The implementation capacity of the higher education
councils was built up during project preparation by training and background studies as well as pilot testing
of the competitive grants system in Romania.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QER process was not in operation at the time of preparation and approval. However, using current
Bank standards, the quality at entry can be rated as being satisfactory. The Bank's operational and sector
recommendations were followed during preparation, and the SAR was cited on the Bank's internal
education sector website as an example of best practice for the overall analysis of the dimensions of
economics of education. The project was based upon extensive and comprehensive sector work for the
whole education and training sector in Romania (1993), which was followed up with projects on
pre-university education (Education Reform Project) and youth and mature adult worker training to help
the labor market transition (Employment and Social Protection) prior to this project. This was followed up
with the Govemment Strategy and Bank Sector Note for Higher Education as noted above.
There were no issues conceming safeguard policies (environment, resettlement, etc.). The project was
-5-



expected to have a positive impact on environmental issues by providing incentives for initiatives in
interdisciplinary teaching and research programs related to the environment, thereby augmenting
Romania's professional capacity in these priority areas.
While the other projects were in preparation and start-up phases, extensive higher education sector work
began with the full participation of the universities, Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Finance. This
resulted in substantial ownership by the Romanian Government and universities of the reform strategy
adopted as the basis of the project design. The project design incorporated many innovative features for
Romania, such as the development of a competitive grants system and large scale multi-user research
centers, and, although some of the sub-components were demanding from an institutional perspective, it
was the Bank's judgment at the time of project approval that sufficient measures to alleviate institutional
capacity risk were in place. The SAR also pointed out at that time that intensive supervision would be
needed to mitigate such risks, and that the benefits to Romania higher education justified this.
Another factor in the quality at entry was the establishment of the legal framework in the passage of the
Education Law in 1995 and the establishment of the new project agencies as part of the sector work and
project preparation (the National Council for Evaluation and Academic Accreditation- NCEAA, the
National Higher Education Finance Council -NHEFC and the National University Research Council-
NURC) so that the project was ready to start at the time of project effectiveness in January 1997.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project overall is rated satisfactory in terms of outcomes related to achieving project objectives. As a
result of the activities under the project components, new and more relevant academic programs were
introduced, with more than 900 grants implemented by the universities and colleges, and monitoring and
evaluations of these grants showing a satisfactory rating based on the audits performed by the two councils.
During supervision missions, the Bank team examined the audit procedures of the councils, and found them
to employ an appropriate methodology for both financial and substantive auditing of grants. These grants
also increased the quality of teaching and research programs by improving teaching equipment and
introducing new teaching methods. More resources were mobilized via cost recovery in public HE and
private HE, which helped to partially compensate for public budget reductions to the HE sector.
Management at the system and individual university level was improved by the operations of the National
Higher Education Finance Council and reforns instituted at the university level. There was less centralized
control of the HE system by the MER, which could then focus its attention on the problems of
pre-university, while still maintaining its overall legal responsibility for HE, but through the guidance of the
HE councils.
All the broad long-term policy outcomes included in the Policy Matrix were achieved, with one exception,
namely the increase of the equity of the scholarship scheme for academically but financially needy
students. The MER and the NHEFC were reluctant to make significant changes in the scholarship scheme
due to its political sensitivity. In the autumn 1998 there were serious strikes and demonstrations by student
organizations that further weakened the MER resolve in this regard. However, small steps were taken in
the right direction, studies were conducted by the MER to highlight the situation further, and some
universities introduced improvements in the scheme within the limits of their administrative autonomy. Still,
there is much more to be done, and this will be addressed in the Plan for Sustaining the Project.
4.2 Ovtputs by components:
The Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix. The overall achievement of the objectives in the
-6 -



policy matrix is rated satisfactory, with all policies implemented with the exception of one policy related to
improving the equity of student scholarships that was only partially implemented (see Annex 8 for a
detailed description). The Policy Matrix had five objectives: (1) improve the external productivity of
higher education, i.e., reorient higher education to make it more responsive to the market economy, (ii)
revitalize academic programs so as to achieve higher quality standards, (iii) control public expenditures on
education through more efficient use and diversification of financing, (iv) ensure that needy but talented
students have access to higher education, and (v) strengthen system and institutional management in terms
of strategic planning capacities, professional planning and control.
Creating managerial capacity in universities was achieved through giving more autonomy to the universities
in their academic and administrative affairs, and also by providing for the universities to administer the
subproject grants awarded by the councils. There were also a variety of seminars for rectors, chief
administrative officers, and chief accountants organized by the HE Councils and the EA throughout the
project. In this way, university autonomy was not only on paper, but became more of a reality, whereas
before universities had been centrally controlled
Through this component, universities are now better prepared for the "European Education Space" to be
developed by 2010 allowing students mobility, credit transfer, recognition of diplomas. The competition
procedures in this project were broadly based upon principles of competitive funding used in OECD
academic funding agencies. Thus Romanian researchers now have the experience of preparing competitive
proposals, including such areas as auditing and accounting for research funds. In addition, the research
infrastructure has been significantly upgraded, especially as a result of the MURCs, making Romanian
researchers more credible partners in the research collaborations to be encouraged under the EU
Framework Program 6 grants.
The Policy Matrix was designed during project preparation and appraisal to match the major objectives of
the project, with specific actions to be undertaken to achieve each of those objectives. By the time of
appraisal, significant actions had already been undertaken, which were listed in the Policy Matrix as being
completed, and those actions remaining were also listed in the Policy Matrix separately and monitored
during subsequent supervision missions.
Component I: Management Capacity Improvement. The rating of the achievement of objectives under
component I is restricted to the project administration sub-component, since the other sub- components
were de-linked from the rest of the project following decision of the EU to use separate implementation
structures. The rating for the project administration is satisfactory. The councils and the universities
received substantial training in areas useful for the operations and policies supported by the Project; this
included many workshops and study tours abroad. The Government budget was also used to conduct
training for the staff of the Executive Agency for the Councils. Unfortunately, there were delays in
implementing the EU financed activities aimed at improving management capacity at both national and
university levels; more timely outcomes under this component would have facilitated easier processing
under the other two components. Project administration was also conducted under this component. The
PMU was effective in conducting fiduciary and monitoring activities. In addition, the EU financed the
design and hardware for financial information system to be used by the MER, councils and universities.
Overall, Component I supported: (i) a new managerial structure of faculties and universities, basically
separating decision functions from administrative ones; study visits, workshops for universities'
management contributed to a better understanding of the need for a more "entrepreneurial"approach; (ii)
the strategic management in universities including capacity building for designing unitary strategic plan
structures and encouraging faculty-university debates on strategic management; beginning with 1999, all
-7-



public universities have started developing strategic plans; (iii) a new financing system for universities
based on core and complementary financing; (iv) a start-up for the quality assurance system in higher
education; (v) a fmancial management information system; (vi) provision of equipment, printing of
manuals, documentation visits on quality assurance for the Higher Education Councils; (vii) the
improvement of library management; (vii) dissemination activities. The self evaluation reflected in the Final
Report of the EU Project Management Unit shows a satisfactory achievement of outputs.
Component H Undergraduate and Continuing Education. The overall achievement of the component
objectives is rated satisfactory. 433 grants were awarded by the NHEFC in the 3 program categories. This
included 234 grants for university programs, 96 grants for shorter cycle college programs, and 103 grants
for continuing education programs. A strategy paper was prepared for the Continuing Education
subcomponent prior to its launching to provide a better focus and criteria for what is a new dimension of
Romanian HE. All grants were awarded according to a competitive grant mechanism and were
implemented by project teams at the university level. Individual applications were accompanied by the
university development plan. They were appraised by peer-reviewers and assessed by sub-committees of
the NHEFC. The NHEFC conducted financial and substantive audits of all grants on a regular schedule.
As a result of the grants, universities were opened up to intemational contacts. This was a major
breakthrough, since under the totalitarian regime before 1989, all contacts were banned and the academic
community was disconnected.
Component HI: Postgraduate Education and Research. The overall achievement of the component
objectives is rated satisfactory. 504 grants were awarded according to competitive grant mechanisms by
NURC and implemented at the university level by subproject teams as in Component H. There were 188
grants for masters/doctoral teaching and study programs, 231 grants for major research programs, and 85
grants for Multi-User Research Centers that resulted in significant upgrading of the research capacity in the
university system. The NURC conducted financial and substantive audits of all grants on a regular
schedule.
After the first round of competition, it was agreed to have a special round of competition focusing only on
young researchers. This was to address the issue that very few young researchers had applied in the first
round, and it was essential for them to participate in terms of building up the future research cadres in
Romania. The dedicated round for young researchers was very successful, and is now being continued
using Government funding sources. Another special round of competition also focused on the priority
fields of social sciences and new interdisciplinary fields (e.g., environmental studies) in order to meet the
allocation criteria of 50% of the grants being allocated to these fields, as agreed during negotiations.
As a result of the grants, researchers from universities benefited from intemational contacts and were able
to establish partnerships with the private sector.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Finantcial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institzutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of this project is rated as highly satisfactory. The establishment and
operation of the councils involved in the project significantly enhanced the capacity of the higher education
system. These councils include the National Higher Education Finance Council, the National University
-8 -



Research Council, and the National Council for Evaluation and Academic Accreditation. At the beginning
of the project, the Finance and Research Councils each had their own executive secretariats, but these were
combined into one Executive Agency (EA) for Higher Education and Research Funding that proved to be
key for maintaining high quality preparation and monitoring activities and for sustainability of the
competitive process. This turned out to be an efficient arrangement for handling the administrative affairs
of the councils and a program of staff development was initiated for the EA. As a result, the councils are
now staffed with professional and trained staff, with good prospects for an adequate budget to continue to
carry out their missions.
The NURC became recently a member of the European Science Foundation, and the EA of the Councils
has become a member of the European Research Project Managers Organization. This provides access to
the wider network of European activities and allows for exchanges of technical experiences among
members.
The university autonomy was strengthened, through increased capacity to prepare and implement
sub-projects. Through the establishment of MURCs, university staff also increased their managerial and
entrepreneurial skills. In order to address the problem of weak managerial capacity, professors received
assistance in the areas of project management and procurement. The gradual approach of first giving seed
grants and only after evaluation scaling up to major grants was highly effective.
Also, as a result of the Education Law supported during the preparation of the project and the
establishment of the National Council for Evaluation and Academic Accreditation there has been a
substantial and sustainable development of private higher education in Romania. There are now 10 fully
accredited private universities enrolling about 140,000 of the approximately 500,000 students in higher
education. Other private universities still function under provisional accreditation. Before the project began,
there was a chaotic and unsustainable situation in the private higher education sector, but as a result of the
higher education policy, the private higher education sector is sustainable with an improving quality.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
For the most part, the project implementation environment was satisfactory. However, inflation and
foreign exchange rate fluctuations (for the worse) presented problems in implementation for the councils
and the universities in 1998; beginning with 1999, the Budget Law allowed MER to decide on the foreign
exchange rate used for funds allocation.
S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Given that EU and MER decided upon a separate Project Management Unit for the EU financed parts of
Component 1, the coordination with Components II and HI financed by the Bank loan was at times weak.
In part, the reason for this decision to have separate management units was the separate procurement and
disbursement regulations to be followed with the EU parallel co-financing. But this meant that the MER
would need to coordinate the two sources of financing. For example, some of the specific training needed
by the staff of the newly formed EA could have been provided by Component I with the EU financing, but
it would have required some changes in the training plan of Component I. The communication between the
two administrative structures was at times weak, each side wanting to avoid appearances of interfering with
the other. In the end, the training needs of the EA staff were addressed from their own budget.
It could be argued that the inflation and exchange rate problems above were subject to government control
in so far as these problems resulted from fiscal and monetary difficulties. During a few times, especially
-9-



during the last 2 years of project implementation, sufficient counterpart funds were not allocated in the
government budget, even though they were requested on schedule and the project grants teams were easily
able to spend the funds as many projects were implementing rapidly.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were early in project implementation instances in which supervision missions raised staffing issues,
but the MOE and the Government addressed these. At other times relationships between councils, PCU and
universities became difficult. For example, the chief accountants of the universities were not submitting
documentation of expenditures back to the PCU in a timely fashion, which then held up replenishment of
the Special Account, and, in turn, the grant directors were not receiving the next tranches on time. Outreach
activities of the PCU and the EA staff were initiated to explain to the chief accounts, and also to the grant
directors, the importance and the benefits of submitting complete documentation of expenditures on time so
that project implementation and disbursement could proceed on schedule.
5.4 Costs andfi nancing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$84.0 million out of which US$50.0 million was to be
financed by the Bank, US$ 9.6 million by the EU and US$24.4 million by the Government of Romania. At
the time of the ICR, the project had fully disbursed the loan amount of Project costs and finance was
realistic in terms of the original design and estimates. There were a few times during implementation when
the Government counterpart budget was short of what was required and implementation and disbursements
slowed down as a result.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating is likely. The institutional capacity building started during preparation and
continued during implementation,.and now the higher education councils and the MER are capable of
operating competitive grants systems and doing academic evaluation and accreditation. Universities are
able to prepare projects and enter in competitions. This increases their chances to access EU funds
available under the EU Program 6, which is based upon a competitive grants system, such as the one
established in this project, and also requires more up to date research infrastructure, which this project also
established in Romanian higher education. As noted elsewhere, the NURC has joined the European Science
Foundation (ESF), which also makes Romanian researchers eligible to compete for the competitive grants
programs of ESF and helps Romania in becoming part of the European Research Council grants system,
which is now being organized. The existence of adequate office facilities and staffing, as noted above,
gives the councils a good base of operations. Supervision missions in the last year of the project have been
discussing the sustainability plan to be prepared for transition to regular operations (see below). It was
also pointed out to the Government that the Loan Agreement for the Project also requires the preparation of
such a Sustainability Plan.
A number of challenges are now facing the higher education system, which need to be addressed. It is
increasingly difficult for the HE system to retain the new graduates of the Ph.D. and masters programs, a
risk which was identified in the SAR. The low salaries are such that the new graduates would find the
private sector much more attractive, and, with the full accreditation of the private universities, there could
be some staff lost to them as well. Compensation of teaching staff is being considered in a new draft law
on HE, but the law may be delayed given the need for a comprehensive and coherent approach to the
legislation of the whole education system. This new framework law would set the general principles within
which specific variants could be formulated for higher education, secondary education, etc.
- 10 -



Another major challenge for sustainability is ensuring an adequate budget for higher education. The
Government's sector prograrn at the start of the project had envisaged increasing expenditures per student
in higher education, whereas in fact reductions took place due to difficult economic conditions during most
of the implementation period of the project. Fortunately, the project investment expenditures were able to
cushion the impact of these reductions. Now that economic growth has improved in the past year or so, the
NHEFC and the MER have recommended that the Government should increase public higher education
expenditure in 2003 by about 20 percent, and keep student enrollment constant in the public universities,
thereby increasing expenditures per student with the aim of improving quality.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The councils have prepared a draft Plan for Sustaining Project Operations and Achievements after the
closing of the project. The Government will not be able to finance as many grants as under the Bank loan
financing, but the system can continue at a reasonable level. This would include Government funding for
competitive grants at the same level of counterpart funding provided during the project, and hopefully a bit
more. The sustainability plan contains initiatives to generate external funding from collaboration with
grant making agencies in the EU, Canada and USA in which Romanian teachers and researcher would
receive Government counterpart matching funds to help them prepare international grant applications, and
implement them when they are successful. Collaborations with the private sector, especially in terms of
Knowledge Economy initiatives, are also included in the Sustainability Plan. In addition to external
funding, these collaborations are also aimed at continuous improvement in the operations of the councils,
for example, in the area of monitoring and evaluating the relevance and effectiveness of education and
research expenditures. The NHEFC is also collaborating with similar bodies in the EU countries and
OECD to refine their analysis of priority policy issues, especially in areas of higher educational finance,
like student loans, scholarships and private higher education.
The EA for the councils is strengthening its monitoring and evaluation system, and their staff is receiving
training in this area. The EA has set up a data-base to monitor the grants provided by the councils, which
includes basic grant project data, and information about substantive evaluation results based upon the
regular audits of all grants conducted by the councils. In addition to the grant projects data base, the EA
has established, and is further developing, a higher education sectorial monitoring data base, to track basic
statistics needed to make informed policy decisions about the sector. The list of areas in which indicators
will be tracked include: enrollment structure and trends over time, private and public enrollment patterns,
cost and financing data, labor market and economic data relevant to higher education policy, and
international and Central/Eastem European comparative data on higher education. The labor market part
of the monitoring and evaluation system should be given special emphasis, now that there are graduates
coming out of the new programs and tracer studies should become part of the monitoring and evaluation
system.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory with respect to identification, preparation and appraisal of the project.
The Bank team and the Government successfully requested a PHRD grant of about $600,000 (effective in
'April 1993) for sector work, identification and project preparation. The Government requested the Bank to
administer the PHRD grant, but the Bank and the Government agreed that there would be strong local
participation of the Romanian academic community in the background sector studies and project
preparation, an approach that resulted in great ownership of the analysis and project design. The project
design was consistent with the Bank's CAS, which endorsed human resource development as central to
Romania's growth and transition strategy. It was also consistent with prior Bank sector work on higher



education and the official higher education strategy of the MER, which was adopted by the whole
Government in Cabinet session in 1994.
The Bank cooperated with the Government on its desire to minimize borrowing TA. The Bank worked
closely with the EU and the MER to arrange co-financing for TA for the project. While this resulted in
some beneficial TA for institutional development, the Bank could not control the EU financed and provided
TA. Although relations were cordial, and information shared, there still could have been better alignment
of TA activities in Component I with the Bank financed activities of Components II and III.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory throughout project implementation. There was
continuity in the supervision teamn throughout the whole project. Since part of the tearn was based in the
field, supervision was not restricted to the two formally recorded missions. The PTL's presence in the field
and during the last years task management in the field further contributed to closely monitoring project
implementation and timely technical assistance.
Aide-memoires and PSRs had a problem solving orientation, identifying clearly actions for the Bank and
implementation agencies. For example, the MURCs were slow to get started due to management problems
related to the complexity and relatively large scale of these research centers. After analysis and
discussions, it was agreed to set up a managing steering comrnittee, using mainly Romanian professors of
business and management, and to provide project management training for MURC project managers, who
were excellent scientists and engineers, but without a management background. This resulted in a
significant improvement in the implementation of this subcomponent.
Another example of this problem solving orientation in supervision was helping the universities to get a
change in one of the financial regulation ordinances that would allow them transfer their savings on their
grant budgets from one year to the next. In this way, they had more incentives to be efficient and effective
in their use of the grant budgets.
At critical times, especially on financial issues flagged by the project team, such as providing sufficient
counterpart funds on a timely basis, Bank management intervened to assist in resolving the underlying
issues.
7.3 Overall Bank peiformance:
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. From sector work to supervision, the Bank
provided adequate teams with a range of expertise in higher education reform issues. The dialogue with the
Government and project agency team was a productive one, acknowledging areas of initial policy
disagreement and working through the analysis to reach agreement, as incorporated into the letter of sector
development policy of the Goverrment and the Policy Matrix of the Project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government agencies performed satisfactorily throughout the extensive sector work and preparation
phase of the project. This was helped to a considerable degree by the availability of a generous PHRD
grant that allowed the extensive participation of Romanian educators, and hence the development of strong
ownership among the project agencies. There were a number of technical background papers prepared by
Romanian and intemational consultants that were synthesized into the overall strategy approved by the
Government. The Government and Parliament approved the necessary legal framework and the
establishment of the new higher education councils for the project and sector reform prior to appraisal so
- 12 -



no pending conditionality was needed.
7.5 Government iiinplementation performance:
The implementation performance was satisfactory overall. There was a high sense of ownership. On a few
occasions, due to budgetary constraints and agreements with the IMF, the Government did not provide
sufficient and timely counterpart funds, as the Ministry of Finance had to balance among competing needs
within the public sector. On the policy issue of improving equity of higher education finance as flagged in
the Policy Matrix, the Government, and the Ministry of Education in particular, could have provided
stronger leadership to introduce reforms. While some progress was made in this area, the MER thought it
was too politically sensitive, especially after the student strikes in the autumn of 1998.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
The implementing agencies performed satisfactorily throughout the project. There were a few times when
supervision missions identified adequate staffing and training as issues, and these issues were addressed.
The PCU was staffed and trained in procurement and disbursement, giving them the ability to support the
councils and the universities in the very decentralized approach to procurement used in the project. The
councils themselves and the EA both received training and improved their performance in analyzing higher
education finance and budgeting issues, and in running competitive grant programs.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the satisfactory performance of the Government and of the implementing agencies, the
overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Despite some of the problems noted above, the MPF
in particular, maintained a strong interest in the progress of the project, assisted in resolving many of the
financial issues that arose during implementation. The MER, legally designated as the implementation
agency, despite two changes in Government as part of the regular election schedule in 1996 and 2000, and
three changes in ministers of education, remained actively engaged in resolving issues raised by supervision
missions.
8. Lessons Learned
The extensive sector work with significant involvement of the local academic community, the MER and the
MPF provides a positive lesson on the role of sector work in analysis and identification of sector issues to
be addressed by a proposed project. However, this was very resource intensive and could not have been
done without a PHRD grant. This also helps to address the political risks inherent in the reform process and
to build up enough support in the face of some opposing constituencies, which will almost always be the
case. For example, the Romanian Academy of Sciences (RAS) was involved in the sector work, but did not
sign on to the reform agenda. Thus, the RAS was not included in the project as an agency, even though
individual researchers who are members of the RAS could participate in grants for teaching and research.
The policy matrix proved important for providing support for long-term reform measures by ensuring that
the progress on policy issues and actions were discussed regularly during supervision missions and
difficulties and problems in taking policy actions could be explored. The most difficult area, as mentioned
before, was that of the reform of the scholarship scheme, but even here the continuous dialogue with the
MER and the NHEFC did allow for some progress, and the expectation is that this will continue to be a
policy area where incremental improvements will be made after project completion. Another area where
the continual discussion of the policy matrix was fruitful was in the full accreditation of private
universities, which was a significant development for Romanian higher education, both in terms of private
resource mobilization and institutional diversification of the system.
A unique feature of this project compared to most higher education competitive funds was the involvement
- 13 -



of supervision missions in ex-ante reviews of the criteria and procedures as applied in the competitions by
the councils. The purpose was to review a sample of accepted and rejected grant proposals, and to see how
the councils applied the criteria and procedures. This turned out to be supervision intensive, as was
anticipated in the SAR. It also turned out to have positive benefits to the project, as it helped the Romanian
project agencies work through implementation problems as they developed. This turned out to be especially
true of the Multi-User Research Centers in which management experience of the Romanian agencies was
limited. As a result of this ex-ante review of the grants award process, the project is more sustainable.
Early agreement on allocation of 50 percent of the grants to new, priority areas proved to be highly
beneficial since more traditional areas were more powerful and would have been the winners of all the
grants. While setting such a quantitative target for new fields might have been risky in terms of introducing
some rigidity, the loan agreement allowed for modification of the percentage allocation by letter of
agreement between the Govemment and the Bank, thus allowing for some flexibility without the need for
going through changing the loan agreement itself. As it tumed out, the allocation for new fields was
observed and proved to be beneficial.
The need for special rounds of competition targeted at young researchers, in order to ensure their
involvement was recognized. The special round of competition targeted at young researchers proved
successful and has been incorporated in the research grants competitions run by the NURC out of the
Government budget.
Seed grants and major grants were beneficial since they provided the chance to try out new ideas in pilot
stages and develop these ideas into major projects. The seed grant procedure helped to reduce the risks of
new projects, and the competitive process involved in both seed and major grants helped to improve project
management skills of university staff. The seed grants were especially useful in developing the much larger
MURC projects, where the size and complexity of the projects benefited from the chance to go from seed
grant stage to full project stage in an organized series of steps.
The importance of the ethical dimension in research programs and the need to closely monitor compliance
was recognized. This was new to Romanian researchers and is important in itself and also for Romanian
researchers to have access to EU sources of research funding. In the former communist systems of
research, many kinds of medical and environmental research could be undertaken without regard to impact
upon the individual research subjects or the wider community. By introducing ethical guidelines in research
proposals, this mind set is being changed.
Although there was cooperation among the Bank, the EU and the Government in the preparation of the TA
Component 1 financed by the EU, the separate project implementation unit and arrangements for this
component resulted in less than optimal synchronization with the two Bank financed components, resulting
in some loss of efficiency.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
After reviewing this ICR, The Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for External Public Finance,
sent a confirmation letter to the Bank (dated January 31, 2003) on behalf of the Borrower as well as the
Borrower's Evaluation Report (attached in Annex 9)
(b) Cojinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/priv'ate sector):
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of:
Ana Maria Sandi, Task Team Leader & Program Team Leader, ECSHD
Mariana Doina Moarcas, Operations Analyst, ECSHD
Maurice Boissiere, Consultant
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant, ECSHD
Raluca Marina Banioti, Program Assistant, ECCU5
-15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
"-   - Indcat6/Matix-' .-   .       . _frIt e.in'a*.-S-
Increase enrollment in market oriented field, n.a.                         131,046 students in 2001/2002 academic
e.g. economics, business,                                                  year (public and private) in economics,
accounting.(Objective 1)                                                   business, accounting, as compared to
49,635 in 1996.
Establish incentives for program innovation  n.a.                          937 grants
by providing grants for this
purpose.(Objective 2)
Introduce formula funding based on unit cost System of formula funding completed.  System of formula funding completed.
(Objective 3)
Mobilize non- public funding for higher  25%                               41 % of total education budget
education. (Objective 3)
Improve access to higher education to  97% of scholarships budget for merit and  Slightly revised scholarship scheme; 30% of
students from poorer families. (Objective 4)  need and 3% for merit alone.  total funds allocated to social scholarships.
Provision of adequate staff and budget for  EA well functioning.           EA well functioning.
Higher Education Councils. (ObjecUve 5)
Institutional development plans to be  All universiUes.                    All universities.
prepared by universities. (Objective 5)
Increase in the private share of total higher  n.a.                        16.19% in 2001 as compared to 6.24% in
education expenditure. (Objective 3)                                       1996 (based on data from 37 universities
public universities out of total 49).
Increase in proportion of state budget  n.a.                               Un-met: 8.85% in 2002 as compared to
allocaton used for capital investments.                                    13.41% in 1996.
(Objective 2)
Increase in proporton of state budget  n.a.                                Un-met: 16.12% in 2002 as compared to
allocaton used for materials and                                           23.05% in 1996.
supplies.(Objective 2)
Increase in the support for fundamental  n.a.                              11 % increase in 2001 relative to 1996.
research in universities. (Objective 2)
Increase in use of forward budget planning  n.a.                           23 out of 37 (reporting) universities applying
by institutions and cost, efficiency                                       system in 2001 as compared to 7 in 1996.
performance based intemal resource
allocaton mechanisms. (Objective 5)
Increase in the number of institutons  n.a.                                All institutions every 4-5 years.
carrying out cyclical review of academic
programs. (Objective 5)
Increase in the proportion of insttutional  n.a.                           41 % in 2002 as compared to 30.7% in 1999.
budgets allocated on a discretonary basis.
(Objective 5)
Increase in the number of insitutions  n.a.                                Research departments and technological
establishing specialized units with                                        transfer units in 32 universities as of 2001 as
professionally trained staff to manage student                             compared to 18 in 1996; speciarized units for
financial support and services, recruit private                            attracting private financing for research in 13
financing, use of physical and financial                                   universities as of 2001 as compared to 5 in
assets and alumni relations, use of                                        1996; informaton and counselling centers in
instructional and research facilities,                                     23 inslitutions as of 2001 compared to 12 In
instnuctional support services, research                                   1996 (based on data received from 34 public
funding and industrial relations, and                                      universities out of total 49).
personnel services. (Objective 5)
- 16-



Output Indicators:
--'        Indicator/Matrix  P                                                     Ai-tualllatest1Esn a
Increase in student to staff ratfo in small HE  n.a.                       19.96 in 2002 as compared to 7.73 In 1996.
institutions (with 5,000 or fewer students).
Increase in private share of total higher  n.a.                            28% in 2001 as compared to 0.23% in 1996.
education enrollment.
Increase in number of full tme equivalent  n.a.                            102,940 students as compared to 36,299 in
students in part-tme and continuing                                        1996.
education programs.
Increase in the proportion of full time  n.a.                              11.11 % in 2002 as compared to 5.22% in
students enrolled in college (short-cycle                                  1996.
higher education).
Increase in post graduate share of full time  n.a.                         15.55% in 2002 as compared to 11.11% in
equivalent enrollment in large public higher                               1996.
educaton instftutions (with 10,000 or more
students).
Increase in number of Mastees students.  n.a.                              17,884 in 2002 as compared to 4,521 in
1996.
Increase in number of full time doctoral  n.a.                             25,616 in 2002 as compared to 14,472 in
students.                                                                  1996.
Increase in the proportion of undergraduate  n.a.                          8.78% in 2001 as compared to 6.45% in
students graduafing with double majors or                                  1996.
major and minor concentrations.
Increase in the number of elective programs n.a.                           25.092 elective programs in 2001 as
and proportion of elective course work offered                             compared to 13,305 in 1996; 32.78% elective
at the undergraduate and college levels.                                   coursework in 2001 as compared to 25.95%
in 1996.
Increase in the number of institutons using a n.a.                         39 institutions in 2001 as compared to 7 In
credit system for undergraduate degree,                                    1996.
diploma or certificate programs.
Reduction in the number of academic staff  n.a.                            Un-met: 20,773 vacancies in 2002 as
vacancies.                                                                 compared to 14,453 in 1996.
Increase in the proporfion of academic staff  n.a.                         46.87% in 2002 as compared to 38.75 in
at the level of lecturer or above qualified with                           1996.
doctoral or equivalent degree.
Increase the staff in accredited private higher n.a.                       2753 in 2001 as compared to 2496 in 1999.
education institutions.
Reduction in the number of years needed to  n.a.                           Part time doctoral programs: 8.1 years in
complete doctoral programs.                                                2001 as compared to 8.7 years in 1996;
Increase in the success rate of Romanian  n.a.                             41% increase of accessed funds as
researchers seeking research funding from.                                 compared to 1996 (based on data received
compeftiive European funding sources.                                     from 13 universities out of total 49).
Increase in the number of academic   n.a.                                  Academic staff: 1202 In 2001 as compared
staff/postgraduate and postdoctoral students                              to 701 in 1996; postgraduate students 824 in
involved in funded collaborative research with                             2001 as compared to 318 in 1996; post
colleagues in foreign countries.                                           doctoral students: 154 in 2001 as compared
Ito 106 in 1996.
End of project
Note: Most targets for monitoring indicators were achieved except for those impacted by shortages in the
education budget.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
-      -         'K                  .              rAjalo n,
1. Management Capacity Improvement                   14.30           11.60           81.1
2. Undergraduate and Continuing Education Programs   27.60           28.30          102.1
3. Postgraduate Education Programs and Research centers  42.10       41.50           98.5
Total Baseline Cost                                  84.00           81.40
Total Project Costs              84.00          81.40
Total Financing Required              84.00           81.40
Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
Procurement Method
Competitive      N.B.F.         Total
Selection
A. College Program Grants /a                     7.0            -             7.0
(5.0)                        (5.0)
B. Continuing Education Program Grants /a        6.7            -             6.7
(4.9)                        (4.9)
C. University Program Grants /a                 13.9            -             13.9
(9.6)                        (9.6)
D. Post-Graduate Program Grants /a              14.4            -             14.4
(10.2)                       (10.2)
E. Multi-User Center Grants /a                  14.1            -             14.1
.___________   (11.1)                  (11.1)
F. Major Research Grants                        13.7            -             13.7
(9.2)                        (9.2)
G. Office Equipment, Computers and Software       -            7.5            7.5
H. Institutional Strengthening /Training                       4.4            4.4
I. Salaries of Local Staff                                     1.8            1.8
J. Program Support and Operational Costs /b       -            0.6            0.6
TOTAL                                           69.8           14.3           84.0
(50.0)                       (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by The World Bank.
- 18 -



/a Competitive selection in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.
/b Eligible expenditures: office materials/supplies, telecommunications, internal travel costs, and incidental
contractual services
Procurement Arrangements (Actual Estimate)
Procurement Method
Competitive       N.B.F.         Total
Selection
A. College Program Grants /a                      7.3              -             7.3
(5.1)                         (5.1)
B. Continuing Education Program Grants /a         6.9              -             6.9
(4.9)                   .     (4.9)
C. University Program Grants /a                   14.1             -             14.1
'__________________________.____________  (9.9)                     (9.9)
D. Post-Graduate Program Grants /a                14.4             -            14.4
(10.1)                        (10.1)
E. Multi-User Center Grants /a                    12.8             -            12.8
(10.0)                        (10.0)
F. Major Research Grants                          14.3             -             14.3
(10.0)                        (10.0)
G. Office Equipment, Computers and Software         -             4.8            4.8
H. Institutional Strengthening /Training                          4.4            4.4
I. Salaries of Local Staff                                        1.1            1.1
J. Prograin Support and Operational Costs /b        -             1.3            1.3
TOTAL                                             69.8           11.6           81.4
(50.0)                        (50.0)
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1W* .12:Pe                                                                s
1. Management Capacity  0.00      4.70     9.60                 4.70     6.90     0.0   100.0  71.9
Improvement
2. Undergraduate and    19.50     8.20               19.90      8.40             102.1  102.4
Continuing Education
Programs
3. Postgraduate Education  30.50  11.60              30.10     11.40             98.7   98.3
Programs and Research
ICenter



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
At the time of appraisal, an overall cost-benefit analysis was done for the higher education sector in
Romania. This was not a cost-benefit analysis of the project itself, because the data for that purpose was
not available. However, there was some data on the cost of higher education by different fields of study
that was collected during project preparation by the NHEFC for the purpose of developing the formula
funding policy in higher education. In addition to that, data from an integrated household survey (1994)
was used to analyze the earnings differentials by education levels, keeping in mind the caveat that the
private market economy, and hence the labor market, was not yet truly competitive in Romania. Within
these limitations, it was calculated from these data on cost and earnings differentials that the social rate of
return to higher education would be about 7.5 per cent, a figure which would then need to be adjusted
upward to take into account that wage differentials in Romania were still compressed compared to that in a
competitive market economy. Given other information about transition economies that were developing
faster, it was concluded in the SAR that the social rate of return to higher education in Romania was likely
to exceed the 10 per cent benchmark often used in Bank project appraisals.
It was agreed with the NHEFC that the cost benefit analysis of higher education would be updated as part
of the regular monitoring and evaluation exercise. The NHEFC is continuously collecting data on the costs
of higher education, and it plans to collaborate with the Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity (MOLSS)
and the National Commission for Statistics (NCS) in using labor market and household survey data
(employment, unemployment and wages) to monitor the extemal efficiency of the higher education sector.
Under the recently approved Social Sector Development Project (implemented by the MOLSS), tracer
studies will be developed that would be relevant to monitoring the labor market. This will help the NHEFC
in its overall responsibility to advise the MER on higher education policy and to sustain the project
achievements.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
.               (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    1mp!ementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identfication/Preparation
03/25/1995                   2   Task Manager (1); Sr. Education
Specialist (1)
06/16/1995                   7   Division Chief (1); Task
Manager (1); Sr. Education
Specialist (l); Operations
Officer (1); Consultants (3)
10/02/1995                   7   Task Manager (1); Sr. Education
Specialist (1); Operations Officer
(1); Procurement Specialist (1);
Consultants (3)
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/05/1996                   6   Task Manager (1); Sr.
Education Specialist (1);
Operations Officer (1);
Consultants (3)
07/29/1996                   5   Task Manager (1); Operations
Officer (1); Lawyer (1);
Disbursement Officer (1);
Procurement Specialist (1)
Supervision
04/25/1997                   3   Task Manager (1); Consultant        S             S
(1); Project Officer (1)
12/14/1997                   4   Task Team Leader (1); Educ.         S             S
Team Leader (1); Higher Educ.
Finance (1); Project Assistant (1)
04/17/1998                   5   Task Team Leader (1); Educ.         S             S
Team Leader (1); Higher Educ.
Finance (I); Project Assistant
(1); Higher Educ. Research (1)
11/30/1998                   5   Mission Leader (1); Educ. Team      S             S
Leader (1); Project Assistant (1);
Consultant-Finance (1);
Consultant-Research (1)
05/07/1999                   4   Mission Leader (1); Project         S             S
Assistant (I); Educ. Team Leader
(I); Consultant (1)
11/12/1999                   5   Mission Leader (1); Program         S             S
Team Leader (1); Financial
Management (1); Consultant (2)
05/12/2000                   6   Task Team Leader (1); Program       S             S
- 21 -



Team Leader (I); Fin.
Management Spec. (1);
Operations Analyst (1);
Consultant (2)
11/28/2000                   6    Task Team Leader (1);              S             S
Consultant (3); Operations
Analyst (1); Fin.& Management
Sp. (I)
06/13/2001                    3   Task Team Leader (1);              S              S
Consultant (I); Operations
Analyst (1)
11/16/2001                   3    Task Team Leader; Consultant       S             S
(1); Operation Analyst (1)
05/24/2002                    3   Task Team Leader (1);               S            HS
Consultant (1); Operations
Analyst (I)
ICR
12/5/2002                    5    Task Team Leader, PTL (1),         S             S
Operations Analyst (1),
Consultant (1), Program
Assitant (2)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
.______________________ _         .No. Staff weeks            US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                   114.2*                         571
Supervision                               90.4                         452
ICR                                        4.0                          20
Total                                    208.6                        104.3
* Includes IdentificationlPreparationlAppraisallNegotiation
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
OL Sector Policies                     * H OSUOM O N O NA
O Physical                             OH   *SUOM ON O NA
L Financial                            OH * SU O M O N O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
Ol Environmental                       O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Oi Gender                        OH   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H OSUOM O N        * NA
O Private sector development           0 H 0 SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
OL Public sector management            0 H  * SU O M 0 N    0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM O N O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS@S Ou OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS*S        OU     OHU
L Overall                                            OHS OS       0  U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
OL Preparation                                       / HS Os      0 U    O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS      0  U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0  U   0 HU
L Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Higher Education Reform in Romania. A Study, loan Mihailescu, Lazar Vlasceanu, Catalin Zamfir,
Publishing House of the University of Bucharest, 1994.
Bulletins of the National University Research Council and the Higher Education Financing Council
1996-2000.
Development of Continuous Education in Romania, Editura Alternative, 1998.
Proceedings of the National Higher Education Research Conferences, 1999-2002.
Aspects of the globalfinancing of universities, Adrian Miroiu, Gheorghe Dinca (coord.), Phare-
Universitas, 2000.
Multi- User Research Centers in Higher Education, NURC, 2000.
Final Report RO 9601, EU Project Management Unit, 2002
-25 -



Additional Annex 8. Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix
POLICY MATRIX FOR                     MEANS                    MAIN ACTION TAKEN
HIGHER
EDUCATION-OBJECTIVES
I. EXTERNAL PRODUCTIVITY
Reorient higher education to make it
responsive to market economy,
including:
A. Changing the content        1. Introduce new fields  1.New fields introduced through competitive
2. Eliminate           financing of programs (university, college,
overspecialization     continuing education, Master and PhD).
3. Create interdisciplinary  2.Reorganized and reduced list of
studies                specializations (to 50% following Government
Decision No. 1336/December 21, 2001) in line
with labor market needs.
3.New interdisciplinary fields introduced using
competitive grants for academic innovation.
B. Adjusting the size          1. Reduce publicly-funded  1.Restructuring engineering and other surplus
enrollments surplus fields  fields by developing economic and
(e.g. engineering)      environmental related sub-fields (through
2. Expand in            provisions included in the financing formula).
market-oriented fields (e.g. 2.Enrollment in market-oriented fields
business, accounting)   increased following the competitive financing
of programs in market-oriented fields;
accreditation of 10 private universities in
market oriented fields.
C. Building in flexibility     1. Restructure higher   1.Introduction of continuing education and
education programs      open distance learning programs.
2. Reform organization of  2. Introduction of European credit and
teaching               transfer system in the public universities; 80%
3. Reform teacher service  of public universities using such systems in
2001.
3. Teachers Academnic Statute (1998) allowed
for more flexibility in remuneration of
professors by universities.
II. QUALITY ASSURANCE
Revitalize academic programs so as to I .Establish an accreditation I.Establishment of the National Council for
achieve higher quality standards  mechanism and minimum  Evaluation and Academic Accreditation
educational standards   (NCEAA). Full accreditation of 10 private
2. Introduce accountability  universities (as of 2002).
for educational results  2.1ntroduction of quality indicators related to
3. Establish incentives for  educational results in the core financing
rogram innovation; achieve formula (as of 2002).
better balance in       3. Introduction of competitive grants for new
expenditures, i.e., more for teaching programs; competitive financing (by
-26 -



development, teacher    the NURC from the public budget) of projects
training materials and  for equipment for research infrastructure and
complementary investments support in the teaching process (as of 2002);
4. Development of       introduction of quality indicators related to the
post-graduate education so teaching process in the core financing formula
as to relieve constraints on  (as of 2002).
expansion of undergraduate .Introduction of competitive grants for
enrollments in market fields Masters and Doctoral programs; stimulation of
by expanding output of   ost graduate programs through equivalent
qualified teachers      coefficients introduced in the core financing
5. Development of academic formula; competitive financing (by NURC
research as an integral part from the public budget) of research grants for
of postgraduate education  hD students; financing PhD scholarships (for
3-4 years) from public funds.-
5.Introduction of competitive grants for major
esearch grants and multi-user research centers
in universities; introduction of a specific
quality indicator reflecting the level of research
erformance in the core financing formula;
competitive financing (by NURC from public
funds) of research projects and grants for
young researchers (individually and in teams).
III. INTERNAL EFFICIENCY                    .
To control public expenditures on
higher education by:
A. Making more efficient use of  1. Rationalize the     1.Length of degree programs reduced for
present financial allocations to higher organization of teaching  university long-cycle programs, short cycle
education                       programs                college programs introduced, and long hours
2. Adopt new budget     of compulsory lectures reduced with more
allocation procedures so as independent study; stimulation of short-cycle
to give incentives for  programs through equivalent coefficients used
efficiency              within the core financing formula; coefficients
used for short cycle college programs are
similar to the ones used for long-cycle college
programs.
2.Introduction of system of core fnancing and
complementary financing, core financing
being determined by formula funding based
upon unit costs and students enrolled and
complementary financing for investments and
research based upon competitive grants
system; preparation of strategic development
plans in universities and analysis of costs
triggering the implementation of efficiency
measures; introduction of the quality indicator
in the core financing formula aimed at
decreasing the number of vacancies.
- 27 -



B. Mobilizing additional private  1. Expand private education I.Enrollment in fully accredited private higher
resources for financing higher  2. Achieve greater cost in  education (by NCAAE) was of about 140,000
education expansion and quality  public higher education  out of the 500,000 total students in 2001.
improvement                                             2.Cost recovery in public higher education
increased via fees and revenue generating
activities. The overall percentage of
extra-budgetary resources in total financing
reached 41% in 2002.
IV. Equity_
Ensure that able but poor students  I .Limit merit scholarships  1 .Reform of this system pending.
have access to higher education, and to 3% of overall student  2.Slightly revised scholarship scheme; 30% of
mitigate adverse equity consequences support budget.   total funds allocated to social scholarships.
of cost recovery.               2.Introduce system
combining both financial
need and academic merit
criteria.
V. System and Institutional
Management
Rationalize management structure of 1.Redefine role of central  1.Reorganization of MER to reduce its direct
higher education to strengthen  government.             controls in light of more university autonomy
strategic planning capacities, promote 2.Devolve professional  and establishment of intermediary bodies.
professional control, and strengthen  functions to intermediary  2.Establishment of NHEFC, NURC with its
institutional management and    institutions.           own staff (EA) and the NCEAA also with its
administration                  3.Decentralize by       own staff.
delegating authority    3.Introduction of more autonomy for the HEIs
4.1mprove system and    according to the Education Law (1995) and
institutional management.  follow up decrees.
4.1ntroduction of strategic planning in all of
the universities and creating separate
administrative and academic functions.
-28 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report
Ministry of Education and Research
Reform of Higher Education and
Research Project 4096-RO
Final Evaluation Project Report
-29 -



CONTENT
1. ASSESMENT OF PROJECT OB3JECTIVES
1.1. Strategy and Policy Matrix
1.2. Component 1[- Managemnent Capacity limprovement
1.3. Component 1[l[- Undergraduate and Continuing Education
1.4. Component Il[l- Postgraduate Education and Research
1.5. Executive Agency (EA)
1.6. Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU)
1.7. Lessons learned
2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT
2.1. Disbursement t
2.2. Efficiency of funds spennding
2.3. Procurement activity
3. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND OF OTHER
DONORS
4. ANNEX
- 30 -



1. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
As described in the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (Romania, Reform of Higher Education
and Research, August 26, 1996, No.15525-RO), the Reform of Higher Education and Research
Project aimed ". . . to support the overall goals of the Government's program for reforming higher
education to improve: (a) the responsiveness of the system to the demands for new professional
and managerial skills required by a market economy; (b) resource allocation to generate
incentives for more efficient performance; and, (c) access to higher education with increased
equity for talented but needy students " . The main specific objectives of the project were to:
(a) "improve the capacity of the higher education councils and the individual institutions to fulfil
their responsibilities in the reform strategy;
(b) develop the new undergraduate and continuing education programs demanded by the
transition to a market economy; and
(c) develop the new postgraduate education and research training needed to supply the next
generation of academic staff in high demand fields of study, and the professionals with advanced
training in the new fields demanded by the transition to a market economy."
To cope with these objectives, the implementation effort was directed towards three components
dealing with management capacity improvement, undergraduate and continuing education and
postgraduate education and research. For each of these components specific goals were
established. The Project recommended measures to strengthen the managerial capability of the
semi-autonomous higher education councils and, in addition, the academic and financial
management at the level of individual institutions of higher education so that they can better
respond to the new competitive and decentralized approach to financing the system.
The following sections are a description of the educational background that made the reform
necessary and an assessment of the level of achievements of the goals specific for each of the
Project components.
1.1. Strategy and Policy Matrix
Background and rationale
Since 1993, the Government has pursued the development and initial implementation of a
coherent ambitious programme in an effort to drastically reform higher education as a whole. The
programme was part of the country' s economic and social reform strategy with higher education
reform fostering, facilitating and promoting reform in the economy. Consequently, a first form of
a Strategy and Policy Matrix was elaborated as a part of the Higher Education and Research
Project (The World Bank, SAR no.1 5525-RO, Annex 3).
- 31 -



Implementation
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will maintain its commitment to the
measures in the sector policy matrix agreed at appraisal and that it will consult with the Bank
annually in the execution of intended measures and any changes in the policy. The Policy and
Strategy matrix was structured so as to:
*   Improve the external productivity of higher education, i.e., reorient higher
education to make it more responsive to the market economy;
*   Revitalize academic programs so as to achieve higher quality standards;
*   Control public expenditures on education through more efficient use and
diversification of financing from other sources;
*   Ensure that needy but talented students have access to higher education;
*   Strengthen system and institution management in terms of strategic planning
capacities, professional planning and control, and better institutional management
and administration (SAR no.15525-RO).
As the implementation of the Project went on, further adjustments of the Strategy and Policy
Matrix were made in 1998, 1999 and 2000, without altering significantly the initial goals.
The World Bank Supervision Mission from May 15-24, 2002 concluded in its Aide Memoire
,,...the only remaining element of the policy matrix that needs to be completed is the reform of the
student scholarship scheme, in order to make it more efficient and equitable".
1.2. Component I - Management Capacity Improvement
Initial goals
This component was meant ,,. . .to provide support to sustain and improve the performance of the
semi-autonomous councils that were formed in 1993/95 as part of the Government reform
strategy to replace centralized control by the MER with oversight of the system through
intermediary councils, or, buffer organizations""(SAR no.15525-RO).
Implementation
Component I was implemented by the Higher Education Reform Program Implementation Unit
assisted by the Director of Technical Assistance Programs financed by the European Union.
Implementation procedures for Component I were described in the European Union document
entitled: "EC-PHARE: Programme Romania: Financing Proposal, Higher Education Reform".
A copy of this last document was included in the Project File.
Implementation of Component I took place between 1996-2001 in the framework of the PHARE
R09601 Project (see PHARE R09601 Project Final Report).
- 32 -



1.3. Component II- Undergraduate and Continuing Education
Background and rationale
Prior to December 1989, Romanian higher education shared many characteristics with other
Central and Eastern European (CEE) systems, but it was also unique in important respects. The
communist model (adopted after World War II) of higher education and research transformed the
university in a high-level manpower training institution, whereas research was relocated in
specialized research institutes, in which the political reliability of scholars and scientists was easier
to control. The essential linkage of teaching and research, a 19-th century idea pioneered by
Humboldt and widely adopted since then, was severed. With the Romanian professors and
researchers cut off from international cooperation, the real image of higher education and research
was that of an extremely centralized and distorted system, having as background an aberrant
policy of industrialization and technological self-sufficiency.
The rapid changes that took place after 1990 were summarized by the new Education Law,
passed in July 1995. Significant chapters of the law were devoted to the higher education system,
which was differentiated in three distinctive levels: (a) the college level (two or three years of
study, in courses more vocationally and practice oriented than theoretical), (b) the university level
(typically 4 years of study, more in some cases, leading eventually to a bachelor degree); and, (c)
postgraduate programs (e.g. master or doctoral courses of study, with integrated research
activities).
Initial goals
The objective of this component was to support program development for undergraduate and
continuing education in fields of high student and labour market demand. The component was
divided in three sub-components, each one with its specific objectives, as follows:
a. University programs (i.e., degree level). The specific objective of this
sub-component was to introduce or reinforce new, market-related content in degree
programs. Consequently, assistance was to be provided for three types of sub-projects:
*   the introduction or reinforcement of teaching programs in new fields of study
important for the market economy (including new programs in such fields as
business administration, small business management, accounting, applied social
sciences, political science, social work and business administration);
*   creation of interdisciplinary programs, such as food science, natural science
and environmental engineering, engineering and management;
*   new approaches to learning, such as computer-based instructional systems;
team  teaching; development of self-study modules and development of
teaching materials.
- 33 -



b. College programs (i.e. diploma level). The specific objective of this sub-component
was to help diversify the structure of higher education by developing shorter cycle
programs, more vocationally oriented than the four-year degree programs,
focusing on fields of importance to the local economy, such as tourism, small
business management, etc.
c. Continuing education programs . The specific objective of this sub-component was
to achieve greater labour market flexibility, by developing and delivering short and
part-time courses and (re)training modules (targeting especially the graduates of
the socialist era), financed through full cost recovery, and leading to certificates in
fields like accounting, business administration and finance.
Implementation
The overall responsibility for implementing Component II was attributed to the National Higher
Education Financing Council (HEFC), created in 1994. The leading principle in the
implementation of Component It was to finance, on a competitive basis, projects aiming to
generate a more rapid and direct response of the higher education system to the structural changes
in the Romanian society, caused by the transition process towards a market economy.
According to the Project Implementation Plan (PIPLAN), developed in 1996 under the
supervision of the World Bank, the sub-units. of the HEFC involved in the distribution of
development and capital funds received annual requests for strategic program innovation funds
provided through the Project. Four such annual competition rounds of project financing were
organized between 1996 and 1999.
Round I        Round II       Round III       Round IV
Application deadline  March 1997  September 1997  December 1998  December 1999
. Contracting deadline  November 1997  September 1998  December 1999  September 2000
.~ ~ ~   ~  ~~- -                 _______ fiaa i&y            -
I ~ ~~~~~ ~ .. _ i4Ifc h  1 l  f      ': 
_ 7 -39  1 +1    -.31  0      1_   I1  12         O   11_
18I *1 ;_
-~~~~~~ - ?| .t .            161      1 321      o    J        1 .
-               I              1         ,        di__ _ 
t(iod       8     I 41  -8    1 7   2:3   39    17    2F   13    '19   11
-34 -



Accompanied by institutional development plans, applications were peer-reviewed by a standing
committee of the HEFC, which took expert advice from the National Council for Academic
Evaluation and Accreditation, for:
* Relevance of proposed objectives to student demand and employment opportunities;
* Academic merit;
*   Feasibility including institutional capabilities and sustainability;
*   Cost-effectiveness.
Incremental costs generated by the new programs were to be sustained from institutional base
budgets. A standing committee on civil works also reviewed additional requests for future capital
expenditures on financial and technical grounds. Consolidated funding recommendations were
added to annual institutional budget allocations. The Ministry of Education and Research, through
its Budget Directorate, retained the responsibility for disbursing funds to the institutions, out of
the resources for program innovations being held in a Special Account (Bank Loan) and a Project
Account (Government counterpart). The HEFC's auditing unit monitored expenditures from
these accounts for strategic undergraduate program innovation, including disbursement of
matching resources from institutional base budgets. HEFC and its Secretariat (since 2000, by the
Executive Agency) and also the Project Coordination Unit (since 1999, Project Management
Unit) monitored the Project-related implementation activities.
Achievements
The Higher Education Financing Council (HEFC) has allocated from the loan the following
amounts for 3 sub-component categories:
Sub-component           Number of grants      Loan Allocation
(Million USD)
University Programs                           234                  9.9;
College Programs (short cycle)                 96                  5.1
Continuing Education                          103                  4.9I
TOTAL                                         433                 19.9
Project indicators
- 35 -



Project dittribution within Component 11 (no. of
projekts)
250
200
250                  .                    . , .10_-?.r ,-- .-,i* 
1t0
too
t0  .
Universitg programs College programs Continuing education
prggrwns:
Distributiion o? aikcated  unds within Component
ii (Loan4o.vornment, USD)
6P943b000  r    al t-4j,7ljO79
l Un'lvorlestb porofens
7,26OjJ0flJ0 .                      oCl iAeog progrrnns
3 C6bun- g education
- 36-



Component ii- distribution of allocated;funds by
university domains (USD)
2,805,781
1,213,668                        ..
I 0,960,558
727,802 
9i260,166-      .          _    .
I U Arts. Sports  i3 Agronomi .
| a Miidicine    "-Technicalm
I Con plot       'odocnui,Eonon,ic: 
ompone,n,t i- Allocation, of funds for
equipmrent.aquisition, (USD)
2,974,928  
4,516,6461 Tibn
- 37 -



Component 11- Distribution of allocated funds
for software aquisition (USD)
t181,661.74
^     j   *   !   ~~~~~~1,335,730.8
468,701.73
Ctecli eSC wara
: . . | i .^ ........a* eaching software_
Impact- Sectoral indicators
The total amount, of funds or academlo proqrams
...3 -
- 38 -



-~~~~~~  '~~~~~~~~~&  ,   I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~~~L
o  o~  o  g
. .. . . ... ...%  V  
to~~~~~~~~~I      ~     4
co ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~. 
4' '4'
Mr. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4 



The 9udk1uriOiie f   sdn=f enrgdfn cwlege
45000
435 - . .. . .. . .. .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20000 .  .  ......         ;   .....
D...._H........ ...
25X,0 ;     .     3    -.             -.
0
1M9i  1997  199S  Is1m  2a0   200
Th,,robpowiA l t.Of1he pavl-time and cortinuin'O educaioiti
udenWit1toes and budgetariant
12                       . _.   ._. .-..__
18Sil / -%WO').iVM   to"        ---------------------
16* ' ctittdihtd94s},,, ,,,,,,,,.,.............................. -
4%'
0.%  .ttbt  ..t4     - ?-e---]   ---       .      -
1896 -'-   198    198     199     200     2
Sustainability
Until now, the availability of funds to continue the complementary financing was limited. A
Strategy for the Development of Romanian Higher Education during 2002-2005 was prepared by
the HEFC. At the same time, MER is preparing an Education Strategy and, in addition, a Strategy
for Knowledge Economy was prepared and presented at the Paris meeting organized in February
2002. The supervision mission of the World Bank from May 15-24, 2002 recommended that the
working teams involved in these activities should coordinate and consult with each other. Bank
specialists declared themselves ready to provide comments/recommendations on draft strategies,
as they did in other sectors in the frame of the ongoing policy dialogue. Ideas from these
strategies are to be incorporated in a practical way into the Sustainability Plan for the Project
prepared by MER within the 6 months after the closing date of the Project.
1.4. Component 111[- Postgraduate Education and Research
Background and rationale
-40 -



Before 1989, higher education was the smallest player in the national research system. In 1991,
researchers in the higher education system represented only 3 percent of R&D personnel. The
number of full time R&D equivalent personnel in higher more than tripled between 1989 and
1992, due to expansion of the professorate while the number of R&D scientists and engineers in
sectoral scientific institutions greatly declined. Expansion of graduate programs in Romanian
universities did not begin until 1990. Since then, the universities have re-established their
traditionally prominent position in doctoral training. Nevertheless, the rapid growth of
undergraduate education, the poor infrastructure for staff and student research and the lack of
funding were serious constrains on the development of research capacity in the higher education
system. Growing enrolments have led to a chronic academic staff shortage in fields with high
employment opportunity. This has led as well to the recruitment of many young staff without
doctoral degrees, whereas, traditionally, promotion to senior ranks of professorate (associate
professorship or a chair) has required a doctoral degree and involvement in research and doctoral
supervision. The Government Strategy, adopted in 1994, called for the establishment of the
National University Research Council (NURC) as a proper mechanism for university research
funding. NURC was first established by an Order of the Minister of Education in early 1995 and
started its operations. Subsequently, NURC was given a stronger foundation in the 1995
Education Law.
Initial goals
The overall objective of Component III was to provide financial support, on a competitive basis,
for the development of new postgraduate teaching programs and university research programs,
thus relieving constraints on the improvement of research quality and expansion of undergraduate
enrolments in market-oriented fields, by preparing the next generation of academic staff needed
for building and sustaining quality in undergraduate programs and professionals with advanced
training in new fields demanded by a market economy.
Component III was initially divided in three sub-components, each having its specific objectives,
as follows:
a. Postgraduate Education Prograrns . This sub-component was aimed to support
development and strengthening of advanced courses of instruction and research
(Master and especially PhD programs). These could include approved portions of
studies at foreign universities and laboratories, normally as part of a collaborative
research or training program involving these institutions.
b. Major Research Programs . The main objective of this sub-component was to
support team and individual research projects, carried out over a two- to
three-year period. Priority was given to project proposals involving training of
Master and PhD students, strengthening of national and intemational scientific
collaboration, activities that have generated significant research funding or senior
investigators with demonstrated scientific accomplishments.
c. Multi-User Scientific Research Centres . The established objective of this
sub-component was to stimulate and augment research capabilities by making
advanced facilities available in regional centres to multiple research projects and
- 41 -



teams, thus making more efficient use of relatively expensive facilities and
equipment and enhancing the research training environment by giving postgraduate
students access to these facilities.
Since 1999, a new sub-component was introduced, by redistributing fund savings from other
sub-components, under the name:
d.      Research Projects for Young. This grant scheme airned to give young gifted researchers
the opportunity to conduct their own projects.
Implementation
Because postgraduate programs combined teaching and research activities, the National
University Research Council (NURC) was designated to implement this component with the
collaboration of the National Higher Education Financing Council, the National Council for
Accreditation and Academic Evaluation and the National Council for Attestation of Academic
Titles and Degrees. The NURC was responsible for the organization of specific annual grant
competitions pertaining to this component.
Round I        Round 11       Round III      Round IV
Application deadline     March 1997      September 1997  December 1998  December 1999
Contracting deadline     November 1997   September 1998  December 1999  September 2000
.. wd  l~Wo . .qt ,,       &4d       Jd* on .,d
21 -  -              --                     -.21
ToiJ    2   .1      2e    1.2 ..  40                     S1  J4
~~~~V132 1                         _o|              .1 _
D81 -     t l..                                4A3  i  1O. ,(  1 
.1 21  M  gl
Total   to)    l.fif   26     16"      0      -.12   5-.  1     '4
Proposals to establish or expand postgraduate programs were screened by the NURC for
adherence to national standards and policies set by the National Council for Accreditation and
Academic Evaluation and the National Council for Attestation of Academic Titles and Degrees.
The proposals were then assessed in NURC's panels on the basis of academic merit. NURC took
-42 -



the necessary measures in order to ensure that grant awards complement the research and
research-related activities, which were supported through its other programs. In most cases, the
grants led programs that were to be sustained by core financing allocated through a formula by
HEFC, giving funding priority to expanding postgraduate enrolments and strengthening second
and third cycle programs. The proposals recommended for funding were ranked and submitted to
the NURC for evaluation according to agreed criteria and procedures. NURC and its Secretariat
(since 2000, by the Executive Agency) and also the Project Coordination Unit (since 1999,
Project Management Unit) monitored the Project-related implementation activities.
A special attention was given to the Multi User Research Centers.
Achievements
The National University Research Council (NURC) has allocated from the loan the following
amounts for 3 sub-component categories:
Sub-component           Number of grants      Loan Allocation
(Million USD)
Doctoral/Master                              188                    10.0
Research Projects                            230                    10.0
Multi-User Research Centres                   85                    10.0
TOTAL                                        503                   30.0
Project Indicators
Project distribution wihin Component III (no. of
.  proJects) 
140 -  ------4 * --.-  -t
00. -                     -
eQ0.   '      -  8- - --  .. ..  - 1- - rr-:- --  -.-- -.-- ---
60 ,         - -      .....- .
IOP
D . ,' ~- __..                     ...-.._, 
MURCd    FkRsearch  b o 6io'.a I Ms't ei Young T
43 -



Distribution of allocated funds within n:Component
Ill (Loan+GovernmentjSDI
,1 0496                     120?2
14,357,500
.^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
U MURC        - 
EReseaich' \
Ff aostoralMXster...
* Youngs (II
component ill- Distributlon ofQlIOatep funds by
university domain fl$s)
3,500,623
. ~   Ar!" S?rs  i Agronom 
a   e.,cino   8Technical
Meocdo-iciari  EEoTiohinc
-44 -



Compoh'ent Il- Distribution of allocated fun,ds
fo'r euipment aquisition (USD)
V Special 
equtpment.
* Teaceh ng,q  
um    ent
Component IlI-Distribution of allocatedi fnds
for equipment aquisitlon by level of '
performance (USD)'
6,3;93,695  Auncdtcolg
uel0,U,nI2j
-45-



Component IIl-Distribution of allocated funds
for equipment aquisition by level of
performance (USD)
.          ~~~2,100,228
923,230-          .-
7,..
Impact- Sectoral Indicators
The total amount of ftmds for research
14
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
o~  ~~~o
U ~PUO'~b..%    .  -   S   ..
l, .~~~~~~-6



LOOZ  OOZ    666L   866  1665  966L
iooz
U->  -     W      9                ' 0 coo
S3unloo3 U2TaIoJ Ul S  ealloD ipim qo3Jusai oATiOqyOllm
POPUJ ul p2AIoA'm  slu;pnis iIoloopasod pun alunpewisod/gjms Dlwupeae jo ioqunu ai uT osoioul
.. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ....-.    O
* .  ~z .  .             .                 h 
so s's
_ ,  -  :,,_  _ w  *.. ___,. ......................... . ..................  ON
4wL                         _____    _ -          'm  W
swumpns ~4IOa J iUx~
..~     .~     66      6&     LS.    U
, ~ ~~~~ ~  ..
!~~ ~               L 9&li             e0
,X,,,~*                        .,X,... Xi. ,, OD
*iars---s- Wu -hu-pinj sj0 --lfll &qj



The sttucture oithe nkv and modernised laboritriess
1400 -    uiwkAtiS                               ;v
120D
400,
200
1998    1987    log8 o   SS     2000    200
Sustainability
Since the Project funds were available, the budget allocation for research grants, provided only by
state contribution, was very low. Efforts are made to increase these allocations and to identify
other funding sources. A survey conducted by EA under the Councils supervision, in the period
2001-2002, shows the perception of the scientific community regarding achievements of the
Project.
The international research programs can be a significant source for funding of research in
universities. Therefore, NURC and EA deployed a continuous campaign aimning to connect the
university research system to the international scientific community. Having the support of MER,
NURC applied for European Science Foundation (ESF) membership. Joining ESF will give the
opportunity to participate at the European Research Council (ERC) creation. These are important
elements of access for the Romanian scientific community to international funding sources for
basic research.
1.5. Executive Agency (EA)
Background and rationale
According to the Project Implementation Plan (PIPLAN, August 15, 1996) and within the
provisions of Component 1, both the National Higher Education Financing Council (HEFC) and
the National University Research Council (NURC) were held to have a basic Secretariat
development plan in place by December 31, 1996 and to review and revise their staffing
requirements annually in the light of experience with the administration of programs. Job
descriptions, combined with continuing monitoring and analysis of program administration,
provided the basis for elaborating and implementing the Secretariat development plan. Procedures
associated with each position were described in appropriate program manuals, giving a
step-by-step explanation of each task required to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the
-48 -



position. The manuals of procedural guidelines were reviewed and revised according to the
schedule set out in the Secretariat development plan.
In a continuous institutional development process, after discussions involving World Bank
experts, the Higher Education Councils and the MER, a Government Ordinance was issued in
October 1999, providing the legal basis for unifying the Secretariats of the two Councils into a
single institution, the Executive Agency for Higher Education and Research Funding. A Law
improving upon the Ordinance was passed in 2000 (Law no.150/2000), providing a better
long-term status for the Executive Agency.
Initial goals
According to the stipulations of Law no.150/2000, The Executive Agency is a central public
institution, subordinated to the Romanian Ministry of Education and Research, acting as the
management centre for higher education and university research financing, under the
co-ordination of NURC and HEFC.
The professional management of higher education and research funding, monitoring and
evaluation was established as the main aims of the EA.
Implementation
The Executive Agency communicates directly with the universities. The Aide-Memoirs issued by
the World Bank Supervision Mission, after the visit to Romania - November 15-28, 2000 -
identified the "organizational and staff development" as the main need of the Executive Agency.
Consequently from the beginning, the attention was focused on the institutional development
process, mainly oriented to the human resources. A "Management Training Programme for the
executives and staff of the Executive Agency for Higher Education & Research Funding" (the
PROAGENCY project) was developed and financed in the frame of the RO 4096 Project, in
order to strengthen the management capacity of the Executive Agency and allow it to meet the
administrative standards needed in managing programs of the World Bank and also for
implementing the Councils responsibilities for Higher Education and Research funding. According
to the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the PROAGENCY project, training activities for the
executives and staff-of the Executive Agency were carried out, focusing on the following topics:
*   Team-work and team-building
*   Work analysis and planning
* Project design, analysis and evaluation
*   Time management, workload analysis, work planning
*   Reports writing, briefing notes and minutes
*   PR and communication
*   Statistical analysis (e.g. using programs as Statistical Package for Social Science-SPSS)
*   Project monitoring
*   Training the trainers
-49 -



The mobility projects in the framework of Leonardo da Vinci EU program are also opportunities
for longer training periods in different EU institutions aiming to contribute to the professional
development of EA staff.
Actually 80% of EA staff consists of university graduates and 70% has a postgraduate degree,
master in social science, strategic management, financial management, quality assurance
management and marketing.
Sustainability
As stipulated by the Law no. 150/2000, the financing of the Executive Agency activities is made
through the State budget and other sources. Since its creation in 2000, the Executive Agency
participated in three mobility projects in the framework of the "Leonardo da Vinci Programme" of
the European Community. Significant efforts are made to identify and attract financing sources,
other than the State budget, by initiating partnerships with universities in European projects and
by developing training manuals and modules for customised, in-house training, to be used for
future training programs and services in project management and related fields (available to
Romanian universities). The EA implemented an integrated management information system
(MIS) aiming to make professional the process of research grants management.
Professional research management and administration become very sensitive topic of the
international research community mainly due to the specific of the new launched European
research framework program 6 (FP6). Executive Agency becomes a member of European
Association of Research Managers and Administrators (EARMA) in a process aiming to build
strong links with the international research community. All these actions are closed linked to the
European Research Area (ERA) development.
One of the main future objectives of the EA is to encourage the participation of Romanian
university research teams in European research and mobility programs, thus attracting
complementary funds and maintaining a high level of performance.
1.6. Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU)
Background and rationale
To monitor the implementation of the Bank-financed elements (Component II and III) of the
sector program, a Project Co-ordination Unit has been organized within the Department of Higher
Education of the MER, led by Mr.Tiberiu Velter (1996-2002).
Initial goals
The Project Co-ordination Unit, as stipulated by the Project Implementation Plan (PIPLAN,
August 15, 1996), had the following responsibilities:
a. receive and review grant agreements approved by the Minister and signed by the
- 50 -



authorised institutional representatives, and make periodic reports to the World
Bank;
b. advise higher education  institutions on procurement procedures, review
procurement requests, verify them for compliance with World Bank and
Govenmment policies and authorise these requests;
c. assist institutions with procurement, particularly in the case of items requiring
intemational competitive biddings;
d.. receive, review and approve all financial and substantive reports. Prepare
disbursement applications for execution by the MER Budget Directorate,
according to the terms and conditions specified in Grant Agreements;
e. certify disbursements made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (in
consultation with the MER Budget Directorate);
f. prepare consolidated semi-annual reports summarising progress in carrying out the
sector investment program. To facilitate this task, Project monitoring indicators
have been developed (PIPLAN, Appendix 5).
g. ensure liaison with MER, the Bank and other donors.
Implementation
The monitoring of the Project activities was one of the most important tasks performed by the
Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU). The monitoring process took into consideration the following
aspects of the implementation effort:
* quantity of project achievements;
* quality of the deliverables;
*   schedule variances;
* efficient use of financial resources;
The periodical progress analyses made with the World Bank Supervising Missions and MER
provided the necessary feed-back and were starting points for different financial reallocations or
adjustments of the Project timetables.
The Project financial activity was based on working with two accounts : the Project Special
Account (for Loan funds) opened at the Romanian Development Bank and the Project
Government Account (for the counterpart funds allocated by the Romanian Government).
Appropriate accounting records were made according to the specific national and international
procedures.
For the replenishment of the Special Account, a number of 68 withdrawal applications have
been prepared and accepted by the World Bank Disbursement Department.
The PCU staff assisted, awarded, monitored and evaluated a number of 60 contracts for works,
goods and consultancy services.
Budgets were prepared for each Project component (see 2. Financial Statement).
51 -



Prestigious companies like Price Waterhouse-Coopers, Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche,
KPMG ensured the audit specific activity according to international rules of good practice.
Starting from the specific provision of the Loan Agreement and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR
no.15525-RO), PCU prepared General and Specific Procurement Plans. Over the entire Project
life cycle, works, goods and services in a total value of USD 49,994,800.82 have been procured
from Loan funds.
During the Project life cycle, the PCU prepared a number of I project amendments approved by
the World Bank and the Romanian Government, as follows:
Amendment no.    Amendment Date                Amendment content
1                03.08.2001        Reallocation of funds within project budget and
increasing the Special Account authorized allocation
from 4.5 mil$ to 6.5 mil.
According to the terms of the Loan Agreement, the PCU prepared semester reports reflecting the
Project implementation progress and the main issues or obstacles identified in the monitoring
process. The reports have been delivered to the World Bank, Ministry of Finance and MER.
Besides, the PCU prepared partial reports answering punctual requests from the MER, Ministry
of Finance, Romanian Government, Court of Accounts, the World Bank, etc.
1.7. Lessons learned
1.7.1 Correctness of the projectgoals
A recent study (summer 2002) on the perception of the project in academic media revealed that a
large majority of those questioned agree with the main goals and strands of the reform project. A
particularly positive perception was expressed regarding the impact of the project on
infrastructure and the quality of human resources in the higher education system.
The goals of the project were considered as strong premises for connecting Romania to the values
and principles of an open society and accelerating factors for Euro-Atlantic integration.
1. 7.2 The needfor continuity in reform
The successes due to project implementation need to be consolidated and developed, which
means that the project closure should not mark the end of the reform process in higher education.
Refining of the results and coordinated strategic measures in order to achieve greater
sustainability are two important directions for action in the following years.
- 52 -



The main project results should serve as inputs for another program, of other dimension and
scope, which should drive Romania towards a knowledge society.
1. 7.3. Communication strategy
A major issue for the reform project in higher education was the lack of a coherent
communication strategy, especially regarding the end-users: the students.
For reasons that seemed justified in the preparation phase, the project was subject to a classical
top-down approach: the goals and the main activities were determined by the Ministry of
Education and World Bank experts, the implementation was coordinated by national bodies
selected and appointed by the Ministry, the single source of funds was also the Ministry through
its specialized structures.
Communication with grant directors was often hindered by the interference of the bureaucratic
channels in universities.
Any new reform initiative should consider the elaboration and implementation of a coherent
communication strategy as one of the main premises for success.
1. 7.4 Project management
Building of the institutional capacities was one of the main actions of the project, and significant
successes were obtained at Higher Education Councils and EA levels.-
Cooperation between PMU and the staffs of the two Higher Education Councils was-slower at the
beginning of the project, but efficiency was dramatically increased once the EA was created in
2000, reuniting the two secretariats of the Councils in one single structure, with a clear mission,
realistic objectives and homogenous procedures.
In the last two years of project implementation, universities developed also their own project
management functional structures, which benefited from the specific workshops organized by the
PMU.
The financial management of the project was , in some periods, confronted with issues related to
the lack of coordination between the flows of World Bank funds and Government counterpart
funds. However, the PMU received a great daily support from the Department of Intemational
Relations in the Ministry of Public Finance, which has made all the efforts to settle the funds in the
appropriate time and value. Without this support, the project would probably have been delayed
for more than a year.
Romanian legislation did not allow for the creation of specific accounts for every grant, which
would have made the tasks of financial monitoring, and the financial operations in general, much
more easier.
- 53 -



Success in the exploitation of the reform project outcomes depends upon the existence of
functional, proactive and professional management structures at university level and the creation
of a real entrepreneurship culture in academic media.
1. 7.5 Motivation of local expertise
Although one of the major achievements of the project was the selection and training of a core
group of experts in different areas of higher education, their activity could not be adequately
rewarded in accordance with their efforts, due to certain unclear provisions of the financial
legislation and, sometimes, opposition from the academic circles.
Even at the PMU level, there was no solution for its members to ensure decent salaries correlated
with their competencies and responsibilities.
It should be kept in mind that underpaid staff is a classical source of managerial problems which
could impair the successful implementation of any project.
2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT
2.1 Disbursement
Between Project effectiveness date (October 2, 1996) and the project Closing Date (June 30,
2002), the Ministry of Education and Research succeed to use for the implementation of the
Project activities, $ 49,994,800, 99,99% of the Loan. Taking into account. the specific nature of
the activities carried on under the Project (such as the development of human resources and
institutional abilities through activities carried on between June-September: summer schools,
scholarships, conferences, other activities accomplished with foreign partners; the finalization of
the contracts signed with the suppliers for the procurement of the high technical equipment for
Multi-User Research Centres, etc) the PMU has received an extension of the Loan Agreement
with a period of three months and also a four months grace period that allowed it to make
disbursement until January 31, 2003 for the eligible expenditures contracted prior the Closing
Date (September 30, 2002).
The yearly rate of disbursement is the following:
Annual Disbursement Rate
Year       Disbursement Graphic  Disbursement Graphic  Disbursed Amount
according to the SAR  according to the
Aide-Memoire
Disbursed amount   1997     4.5                  0                   1,500,000.00
Disbursed amount   1998     5.7                  6.6                 3,047,291.13
- 54 -



Disbursed amount    1999     13.1                 8                  7,029,931.83
Disbursed amount    2000     14                   10.4               7,000,602.81
Disbursed amount   2001      9.7                  15                 15,870,350.44
Disbursed amount    2002     3                    10                  15,546,623.79
TOTAL     50                   50                 49,994,800.00
Disbursenrit Rate from Loan 4096 RO
y ~  ~   .    ..    ...
16,000,000.00           -                                           - -
14,000000.00     j                                  .              -
12,000,000.00
10,000,000.00-                       ____-
VID   8,000,000. 00
6,000,0.00.0
D. - .
40 0,000.00t                    I
1997 1998i 9t99 2000o      2001 2002
Disbursed by components/eligible categories:
Project Component              Disbursed Amounts
Undergraduate and Continuing Education              19,881,153
Component II
University programs                                  9,919,053
College programs                                     5,082,000
Continuing Education                                 4,880,100
Postgraduate Education and Research -               30,113,648
Component III
,Postgraduate Education Programs                     10,050,250
Major Research Programs                             10,014,183
Multi-User Research Centers                         10,049,215
Total Project Component                             49,994,801
-55 -



The total amount of the Romanian Government contribution was USD 19,782,276.
Project Component              Romanian Government
contribution
Undergraduate    and     Continuing                     8,511,923
Education
University programs                                     4,251,023
College programs                                        2,178,000
Continuing Education              I                     2,082,900
JPostgraduate Education and Research                   11,270,353
Postgraduate Education Programs                         4,307,250
Major Research Programs                                 4,291,793
.Multi- User Research Centers                            2,671,310
,Total Project Component                                19,782,276
Total amount of funds distributed from the Romanian Govermment contribution by
components/eligible categories:
Project Component         I WB contribution  Romanian Gvt       Total
contribution
',Undergraduate and Continuing Education  19,881,153        8,511,923    28,393,076
University programs                       9,919,053         4,251,023    14,170,076
'College programs                         5,082,000         2,178,000     7,260,000
Continuing Education                      4,880,100         2,082,900     6,963,000
Postgraduate Education and Research      30,113,648        11,270,353    41,384,001
Postgraduate Education Programs          10,050,250         4,307,250    14,357,500
Major Research Programs                  10,014,183         4,291,793    14,305,976
Multi-User Research Centers              10,049,215         2,671,310    12,720,525
'Total Project Component                 49,994,801        19,782,276    69,777,077
2.2 Efficiency of funds spending
After the four rounds of competitions organized by the Higher Education Councils and stipulated
within the Loan Agreement, there were allocated only USD 48,779,565 from the total amount of
- 56 -



USD 50,000,000. The difference remained as savings was reallocated as follows:
Project Component              Allocated    amounts Amounts after the Differences
according to the Loan reallocation of the remained  as
Agreement            funds            savings
Undergraduate  and   Continuing 19,500,000         :19,881,155
Education
University programs            9,600,000           9,919,055         319,055
College programs               5,000,000           5,082,000         82,000
Continuing Education           4,900,000           i 4,880,100       - 19,900
Postgraduate   Education   and 30,500,000          30,118,845
Research
Postgraduate Education Programs  10,200,000         10,050,250       -149,750
Major Research Programs        9,200,000            10,019,380       819,380
Multi-User Research Centers   .11,100,000           10,049,215       -1,050,785
Total Project Component        50,000,000          50,000,000
Within the project components/eligible categories the funds were spent approximately in the
following manner (Examples):
Research and laboratory equipment - 59%
Software - 4%
Attending international conferences, workshops and study visits & fellowship - 16%
In order to ensure a normal financial unfolding of the sums allocated within the Loan, both parts
agreed to a formula stipulated in the Loan Agreement between IBRD and the Romanian
Government that is the use of a Special Account (Annex 6 from the Government Ordinance no.
2/1997).
The World Bank replenished the Special Account on the basis of the withdrawal applications. As
soon as the Special Account was replenished, the amounts were transferred to the universities, the
Special Account being more like a " transit" account. The higher education institutions were due
to spend the money within the period 30-60 days from the date of the replenishment of their
accounts and to present the justifying documents to the PMU. On the grounds of these
documents, Special Statements were made which highlight each expenditure.
2.3 Procurement activity
- 57 -



The procurement activity was done by the higher education institutions under PMU technical
assistance. PMU monitored and supervised International Competitive Bidding, Limited
International Bidding, International Shopping and Direct Contracting.
Item            Procurement method             No. of activities  Total value (USD
no.                                                                 mill)
- 1    International Competitive Bidding                      1       $799,000.00-
2       National Competitive Bidding               not applicable:
3      Limited International Bidding                          1        $430,058.88
4       Cost/Quality Based Selection               not applicable
5       International Shopping                               58      $6,767,010.25-
6      National Shopping                                            $41,467,045.09
7      Lowest Cost Selection                       not applicable
8       Selection based on consultant's qualifications  not applicable
9      i'Individual Contracts                                95        $283,224.60-
10     Direct Contracting                                     2        $248,462.00
11     Operations Costs                            not applicable
TOTAL                                                        $49,994,800.82
3. EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK AND OTHER
PARTNERS
The relationships between the Romanian Government and the World Bank, the main project
donor were based on the provisions of the following official documents:
*   The Loan Agreement (Reform of Higher Education and Research Project) approved on
October the 2nd 1996;
*   The World Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (dated August 1996);
*   The Project Implementation Plan;
* The Government Ordinance no. 2 concerning the ratification of the Loan Agreement
(approved on January the 11 1997);
*   The Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry for Public Finances and the Ministry of
Education and Research.
These official documents are establishing the negotiated Project objectives, the activities to be
implemented and the financial allocations, the main rules and procedures to be used during the
implementation process, and the evaluation and monitoring methods and tools.
- 58 -



According to the above mentioned documents, the World Bank supported the Ministry of
Education and Research in implementing the reform of Higher Education project in two manners:
1. A day-by-day implementation support
There was a strong permanent direct contact between the Project Task-Managers (during the
Project life there were two Project Task-Managers - Mr. Maurice Boissiere and Mrs. Ana Maria
Sandi), other World Bank specialists and the PMU staff, especially concerning disbursement and
procurement matters (Mr. Kenneth Miller, Mr. Nicholay Chistyakov, Mrs. Agnes Nuval, Mrs.
Carol S. Nelson from the Disbursement Division, but also Mr. Leonardo M. Conception from the
Procurement Disbursement.
The World Bank's Resident Mission staff (Mrs. Ana Maria Sandi, Mrs. Mariana Moarcas, Mrs.
Gabriela Manea, Mr. Bogdan Constantinescu) offered technical assistance, carefully monitoring
the implementation progress and gave professional advice on adjusting the Project activities and
timetables, on procurement, financial management and disbursement matters.
2. Periodical supervision missions
Twice a year, the World Bank organized supervision missions including meetings with leadership
of the Ministry of Education and Research, with the representatives of the Ministry of Public
Finances, of the Higher Education Finance Council, of the National University Research Council
and their staff from the Executive Agency of the Councils with the President of National Council
for Accreditation and Academic Evaluation, the President of the Alma Mater trade union,
different rectors of the universities, the Project Management Unit staff.
During the implementation period, the supervision missions were carried out by the
Task-Managers - Mr. Maurice Boissiere and Mrs. Ana Maria Sandi - , but also different World
Bank specialists took part: Mr. Michael Crawford (Science and Technology Specialist, ESDVP),
Mr. John Sheenan and Mr. George Tilhman (Consultants).
The objectives of the supervision missions were:
*   To monitor the progress in Project implementation;
*   To review the status of the project budget;
*   To review the monitoring indicators;
*   To review the implementation of the elements of the Project policy matrix, particularly the
pending measures related to private university accreditation and revision of scholarship
scheme;
*   To assess the sustainability plans.
The conclusions and the recommendations issued as a result of the supervision missions
mentioned in comprehensive aide-memoires represented useful tools concerning the necessary
measures to be taken for improving of the Project implementation.
- 59 -



ANNEX
Global Project Indicators
Component distribution wfthin Project R044096
(no. of.projOcti)
zf,f<:    433i_             
400
300
200
00
Compon.ceht II      Compoment 01
Dis*ibution ofT aPIr'ct  fundo win. Pjedct RO-
40.98 LoanNqv9mm"ns, USP)
28,373,079
41,39i,894       " -- *
r    poneneDR11
- 60 -



OroJect RO4096: Subcomponent distribution (no.
of projects)
250 -
o5.. -1 --  |                       9610
MUPRC      130otorwIlmiotcr  Uvrn ~  Cc~
.aducati.o
Project RO40Q96: Allocation of funds by universit
d omain (USD
S,3068404
3,741' 668          - 
'.?s12,604
27,148.-....
U Art-. Sports  I3 AgrorPq:.
Chleg         bi.limn Eofono
- 61



Project R04096: Number. of new and modernized
laboratories
R , - r -;i ..~~~~~~~....   ......   ~ - .~ ,
600   -
:500
!400 
ioo .  4*,.
-   231
Ceomponeni II     Ccripon6nn Ei
t Oaw    n.b- N96ode6iree b
Project RO-408: AaOeca-nou 40
equipnient aquisKion (USD)
.11,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
162 -



Project RO-4096: Aliocation of:software
aquisition funds (USD)
3U6,31 S.41
'- ,.  ,   =~~'-2,S73,37O0tb
ta s iaiti?isotii44
uTeaciing siftvafe
M Otber-
Project R04096: Proportion of academic staff In research
te am s (lo)
11eS4%ml%
tt K   S       -        ~~~~~~~31.67%,
* Readere
- ,Iw  -   _      ; Lecturers
.  .  Asslutente
AM0%                    N-1468%* Researchers
a Other
-63 -



Project R04096: External mo6ilities ino. of
participant)
t6 compaoneapft InI
o Component 11
7.500 
6000
'Students     AvideffieetuW
e _..   .  .                                  . o** -l
i200W000
7SDS',-  ....... 1 I .:
::0d00o00
Studerfls~ ~ Ademk.             A.
ue m,P-
-64 -



rnthbltiad FWmm pe ueMs ()
1,'1%                                                             U *UnrPolih6ioa 6ucu6!ti
1 1%s -    |SUnw Svucur"sti
1UnWBabes olyai din ChiJ
* 2                                                                  * t I  ,  UnivT6hnIoadin Chuj
9 3S: a%        \                   \                     |                   O18. 8  UUnirALi:Cuza din lasi
:3;                                                                            *Unhiu Poitehnca Tinisoara
-'                             ~~~~~~~~~EASE
3.3%                         _uMrdinCIuJ
3 3t 1 -.     -  =-  - .    *. T 
4%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O4
..   .                                            .         IF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UMF Bueuresbi
MUni. din Craiova
5 5%                              $   U 12M           A~~~~~~~t  UnfvudeVest Tirnisoara
e8     ..e                                                  *Unvde PtrolsIGee d In P lolesti
MU SAG
UUniv D:unafea le Jos din GMad
SUnk. translivanla din Brisov
- 65 -









Report No.:       24554
Type:    ICR



