Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15525-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AUGUST 26, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Leu (Plural Lei)
US$1.00 = Lei 3100
(July 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ROMANIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEE       Central and European Countries
ESW       Economic Sector Work
EU        European Union
FESAL    Financial Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan
FTE       Full-time Equivalent
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
HEFC      Higher Education Financing Council
HEI       Higher Education Institution
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LIBOR    London InterBank Offered Rate
MIS       Management Information System
MOE       Ministry of Education
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NURC    National University Research Council
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
SECIL    Sector Investment Lending Loan
TA        Technical Assistance
DEFINITIONS
Romania is divided into 42 counties or districts called rrjudets" which form the geographical
base for both the territorially deconcentrated central government administration and the local
government system. The counties are in turn divided into 2,948 municipalities, including
260 urban communities and 2,688 rural communities.



ROMANIA
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary ............................... i
I.   DEVELOPMENTS AND ISSUES IN HIGHER EDUCATION ........    1
A.  Socio-Economic Background .......................... 1
B.  Legacy of the Ceausescu Era  ......................... 1
C.  Achievements Since 1989 ............................ 2
D.  Major Unresolved Issues ............................ 7
II. REFORMS IN HIGHER EDUCATION   .                             .13
A. Higher Education Sector Reform Program .13
B. Financial Implications of the Reforms .16
C. Remaining Priorities .18
III. THE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT    ...20
A. Objectives    ..20
B. Project Content    ..21
1.   Component I: Management Capacity Building .21
2.   Component II: Undergraduate Program Innovation .23
3.   Component III:Postgraduate Program Innovation
and Research .24
C. Economic Analysis    ..26
1.   Linkages to the Country Assistance Strategy .26
2. Linkages to Economic and Sector Work .26
3. Policy Environment .27
4. Analysis of Alternatives .28
5.   Cost-benefits/Cost-effectiveness .30
6. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact .32
7. Public/Private Justification .32
8.   Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework .32
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Romania in February, 1996. The mission
comprised Maurice Boissiere (Task Manager, EC1/2HR), Leonardo Concepcion (Senior Implementation Specialist,
ECI/2HR), Thomas Eisemon (Senior Education Specialist, HDD), Ana Maria Sandi (Human Resources Project
Officer, ECIRO), and consultants Richard Johanson, George Tillman and John Sheehan. Ross Pavis provided copy
editing and document processing. The Peer Reviewers are Halsey Beemer (EA2RS), Sachi Takeda (HRGST), and
William Rees (EA1HR). Mr. Ralph W. Harbison is the Division Chief, and Mr. Kenneth Lay the Country Director.



9.  Poverty Analysis ..........................  ..   . 33
10. Environmental Analysis  ..............  ..  ...  ..  ..   . 33
11. Rationale for Bank Support ............ .  .. .. .. ..   . 33
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION  ................................  35
A.  Lessons from Previous Bank Operations ........ .......... 35
B.  The Sector Investment Approach ........       .............. 37
C.  Selection of Sub-projects ........................... 38
D.  Implementation of Sub-project Grants ........ ........... 43
1.  Organization and Staffing  .........     .............. 43
2.  Implementation Schedule .........      ............... 45
3.  Monitoring and Evaluation .........      .............. 48
4.  Bank Supervision and Review .......... .. .  .. .  .. .  .   . 49
V.   COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT . . . 51
A. Project Costs .51
B. Administration of Loan Funds .55
C. Procurement .60
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS   ..65
A. Benefits .65
B. Risks .66
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .67
TABLES
Table 1.1: Growth of Higher Education Enrollment 1989/90-1994/95.           4
Table 1.2: Distribution of Public Higher Education Enrollment
by Field of Study 1989-1994.                                     5
Table 1.3: Financial Resources for Public Higher Education
by Source 1988/89-1994/95.                                       9
Table 2.1: Global Education Expenditures 1995 to 2000 .17
Table 2.2: Real Per Student Public Expenditures: 1995-2000 .17
Table 2.3: Higher Education Investment Program .18
Table 4.1: Staffing of Intermediary Organizations ................... 38
Table 5.1: Project Cost Summary by Component .51
Table 5.2: Expenditure Accounts by Component .52
Table 5.3: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary .52



Table 5.4:  Local/Foreign/Financing  ........................... 56
Table 5.5:  Components by Financiers .......................... 56
Table 5.6:  Disbursement Accounts by Financiers ................... 57
Table 5.7:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......................... 57
Table 5.8:  Disbursements by Semester and Government Cash Flow ..... .         .    . 58
Table 5.9:  Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . 61
Table 5.10: Procurement Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .. . .. 64
CHARTS
Chart 4.1:  Project Implementation Schedule Summary ...... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 46
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Background on Higher Education and Research System
Annex 2:   Draft Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 3:   Policy Matrix
Annex 4:   Cost Benefit/Cost Effectiveness of Higher Education in Romania
Annex 5:   Criteria and Procedures for Sub-project Selection
Annex 6:   Sector and Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 7:   Bibliography of Materials in Project File






ROMANIA
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Romania
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Education (MOE)
Universities and Colleges
Amount:           US$50.0 million
Terms:            Payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans.
Project
Objectives:       The project would support the overall goals of the Government's
program for reforming higher education to improve: (a) the
responsiveness of the system to the demands for new professional and
managerial skills required by a market economy; (b) resource allocation
to generate incentives for more efficient performance; and, (c) access to
higher education with increased equity for talented but needy students.
Specific project objectives are to: (a) improve the capacity of the
recently formed higher education councils and the individual institutions
to fulfill their responsibilities in the reform strategy; (b) develop the
new undergraduate and continuing education programs demanded by the
transition to a market economy; and (c) develop the new postgraduate
education and research training needed to supply the next generation of
academic staff in high demand fields of study, and the professionals
with advanced training in the new fields demanded by the transition to
a market economy.
Project
Desription:       This is a sector investment project that would achieve its objectives
through three components described below:
Component I: Management Capacitv Improvement. This component
would provide support to sustain and improve the performance of the
semi-autonomous councils that were formed in 1993/95 as part of the
Government reform strategy to replace centralized control by the MOE
with oversight of the system through intermediary councils, or "buffer
organizations." These councils and their responsibilities are: (a) the



ii
National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation, which is
responsible for accreditation of private and public institutions and
programs; (b) the National Council on Academic Titles and Degrees,
which is responsible for criteria and evaluation of professional
certification in higher education; (c) the Higher Education Financing
Council, which is responsible for performance-based funding of core
recurrent and investment budgets of the individual institutions and for
student financial aid channeled through the state budget; and, (d) the
University Research Council, which is responsible for funding research
grant programs on a competitive basis to private and public universities
mostly for support of expansion and quality improvement of
postgraduate education. In addition, the project would also support the
strengthening of academic and financial management at the level of
individual institutions of higher education so that they can better
respond to the new competitive and decentralized approach to financing
the system. The MOE would also receive technical assistance to carry
out its new but reduced oversight responsibilities in the reformed
system.
Component II: Undergraduate and Continuing Education. This
component would support new program development for undergraduate
and continuing education, especially in fields of high student and labor
market demand. These programs would not be predetermined, but
would be selected on a competitive basis according to agreed evaluation
criteria related to the demand for programs, their quality and cost-
effectiveness and the capacity of institutions to implement financially
sustainable new initiatives. Accredited private or public universities
would be eligible to submit proposals for funding to support new
programs. Renewal of support would be contingent on favorable
quality audits, achievement of program performance and cost-
effectiveness goals, the demand for graduates, and evidence of
institutional financial commitment to sustain the programs.
Component III: Postgraduate Education and Research. This component
would support the development of the advanced courses of instruction
and research needed to develop the next generation of academic staff
and the professionals with advanced training in the new fields required
in a market economy. These new programs of postgraduate courses
would not be predetermined, but would be selected on a competitive
basis similar to that in Component II. In addition, the project would
support a research grants program for individual and team research
involving masters and doctoral students. Competitions for research
grants would be organized regularly and grants would be awarded on a
competitive basis subject to rigorous domestic and international peer



iii
review and coordinated with the development of advanced courses of
instruction.
Benefits
and Risks:        The proposed project would promote diversification of the financing
and provision of higher education, increase the efficiency and equity of
public investments in higher education, and improve the quality of
programs in response to changes in student and labor market demand.
The reforms to be supported by the project are ambitious. They exceed
in scope and complexity those attempted or contemplated by any other
country in the region since 1989. Institutional and system-wide reforms
must be undertaken concurrently while both the legal and fiscal basis of
the higher education system must be changed before the project
becomes effective. Many reforms are contentious and involve serious
political risks. Administrative risks and the possible limited
employment capacity for graduates are being addressed through broad
participation in the development of reform, and attention to labor
market linkages. Moreover, the Government's reform strategy, based
on extensive technical studies, has been developed in consultation with
stakeholders. There is ownership of the reforms by Government,
Parliament and the academic community. Implementation of reforms
would fundamentally change the role of the state vis-a-vis higher
education institutions and, in addition, the management of the
institutions themselves. Project preparation funding from the Japan
Grant Facility and technical assistance from the European Union and
bilateral donors are being used to assist the new councils to steer future
development of the higher education system as well as to strengthen
institutional management and implementation capacity.



iv
ROMANIA
REFORM OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Cost a/
Local Foreign  Total
(US$million)
1. Management Capacity Improvement                       4.3    10.0    14.3
2. Undergraduate and Continuing Education Programs      11.7    15.9    27.6
3. Postgraduate Education Programs and Research Cente   16.6    25.5    42.1
Total PROJECT COSTS          32.6    51.4    84.0
Note:   Project costs do not provide for contingencies as the project has been designed as a sector investment
operation in which specific sub-projects have not been identified.
Financina Plan:
Local Foreign  Total
Government             24.0     0.4    24.4
European Union             0.0     9.6      9.6
The World Bank             8.6    41.4    50.0
TOTAL             32.6    51.4    84.0
Estimated Disbursements:
c,
IBRD FY   1997    1998   1999    2000   2001    2002
Annual    2.2      5.0     8.8    14.6    13.4      6.0
Cumulative    2.2      7.2    16.0    30.6    44.0    50.0
Cumulative as % of Total    4%     14%     32%     61%     88%    100%
Proiect ID: RO-PA-8793
, Figures may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
2 Project costs are net of taxes and duties.
c/ Actual disbursements have been estimated over nine semesters assuming
project effectiveness second quarter of FY1997.



I. DEVELOPMENTS AND ISSUES IN HIGHER EDUCATION
A.   Socio-Economic Background
1.1   The Romanian social, economic and political structures have undergone dramatic
changes since the end of the Ceausescu era in December 1989. The repressive features of
the Ceausescu regime, which affected many areas of Romanian society, including higher
education, were lifted and Romanian citizens began to enjoy freedoms long denied to them.
However, the economy, as in other countries in transition, experienced sharp drops in
output, and consequently, in consumption and standards of living. Gross domestic product
dropped by 33 percent from 1989 to 1993, and inflation increased sharply, reaching 200
percent in 1992 and 295 percent in 1993. Recent improvements in economic perfornance
have been encouraging, with GDP in 1995 growing almost seven percent and inflation
declining to 28 percent. The Government is also embarking on an ambitious privatization
program with support from the Bank and the European Union, which Romania hopes to join
as soon as it is feasible. Romania has also enjoyed political stability compared with some
transition countries and will soon conduct its second parliamentary and presidential elections
since the adoption of a democratic constitution in 1991.
B.   Legacy of the Ceausescu Era
1.2   Romania achieved a high level of basic education coverage during the socialist period.
Eight years of basic education became nearly universal, while about 80 percent of primary
school graduates obtained access to some form of academic or vocational secondary
education. Most students were directed into programs of overspecialized vocational
education. Many of these programs did not offer the prospect of progressing to higher
education. Even for those secondary programs which did meet the entrance requirements for
higher education, few graduates succeeded in gaining entry to university. Higher education
expanded to cover 11 percent of the age group in 1970. However, enrollments stagnated
during the last decades of the Ceausescu period, growing at just 0.4 percent per year between
1970 and 1989. At the beginning of the transition, higher education enrollments in Romania
had shrunk to nine percent of the age group.
1.3   During the 15 years preceding the fall of the Ceausescu regime in December 1989,
the higher education system suffered from increasing political interference and loss of
academic freedom. Romanian higher education was also deprived of the contacts with the
West which it had enjoyed in the early 1970s, leading to progressive intellectual isolation and
obsolescence.
1.4   Under the former system, higher education was centrally financed and centrally
directed. Student demand did not play a role in the evolution of higher education. Higher
education was geared exclusively to the needs of the centrally-planned economy.
Specializations which made a direct contribution to physical output goals -- notably,
engineering -- were emphasized; programs in humanities and social sciences were neglected
or eliminated entirely. By the end of the Ceausescu period, engineering dominated higher



- 2 -
education enrollments with 65 percent of the enrollments compared with just 10 percent for
science, social science and humanities. One of the main legacies of the Ceausescu era was
excessive training capacity in specializations for which a market economy has little need, and
undercapacity of training in fields that are critically needed for the future growth of the
market-oriented economy.
1.5   The financing of higher education programs was not subject to performance
considerations other than meeting enrollment targets. Prior to 1990 there was little diversity
in the length and structure of undergraduate programs. Programs in science, arts, social
science and humanities were usually four years in duration, while those in some professional
fields such as engineering and medicine were five years. Evening courses required an
additional year. Study programs were highly specialized with no provision for elective
studies. Transfer from one program, or from one faculty, to another was not possible
without starting all over again. The excessive number of hours of compulsory classroom
instruction (32 to 38 hours per week) effectively left no time for self-study.
1.6   University research was dismantled and doctoral training was transferred to
government research institutes closely tied to branch industries. Higher education institutions
carried out contract research for ministries and public enterprises under a system of
mandated allocation which provided little incentive for professional excellence or relevance
and amounted to disguised public subsidies.
1.7   Especially during the latter part of this period, investment and maintenance of
facilities and instructional equipment underwent serious decline.
C.   Achievements Since 1989
1.8  In the 1990s Romanian higher education has undergone a radical transformation,
recording some of the most significant changes in the whole of Europe in terms of
enrollment growth, establishment of private education, changes in the specialization of
enrollments and cost recovery. The most salient developments since 1989 are explained
below. (See Annex 1 for more background on the Higher Education System.)
1.9   Management. The reversal of the negative effects from the earlier period began in
1990 when public universities received autonomy in many matters of academic governance,
elected new rectors and established the National Conference of Rectors. This autonomy has
been gradually expanded to encompass the authority to charge fees, retain and manage the
revenues earned from fees and other sources, and manage their own assets. The role of the
Ministry of Education has undergone a radical change, away from one of direct control
towards a concern with policy development and indirect guidance. Consistent with its change
of role, the size of the Ministry has declined sharply from 800 staff to about 200 staff.
Another significant development has been the emergence of organizations as an intermediary



- 3 -
between the central ministry and higher education institutions. The Accreditation Council',
established in 1993 by an act of Parliament to which it reports, has its own budget largely
generated through the fees that it charges. Other key bodies established in 1995 were the
Higher Education Financing Council, the Credentials Council2; and the National University
Research Council. These latter councils are semi-autonomous in that they advise and make
recommendations to the Minister of Education, but if the Minister does not accept their
recommendations, e.g., for funding, then a justification must be provided in writing by the
Minister and the matter returned to the Councils for reconsideration.
1.10 Structure. More flexible program structures are now being developed in many public
universities. Traditional degree courses, especially in engineering, are being divided into
two cycles: a short cycle diploma program of three years, with two additional years of study
leading to a degree. In addition, the older public universities are introducing masters
programs of two years' duration. Doctoral programs are also being re-established and are
now offered in about 40 public universities, entry to which will soon require the new masters
degree.
1.11  Enrollments. The transition unleashed the long pent-up demand for higher education.
The proportion of secondary school graduates admitted to higher education increased from 10
percent in 1989 to over 50 percent in 1994. Over the same period the enrollment ratio for
the 18 to 24 age group increased from nine percent to more than 15 percent. As shown in
Table 1, below, enrollments in higher education increased by 40 percent between 1989 and
1990 alone, and increased a further 74 percent between 1990/91 and 1994/95.
1 Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation
2  The Council for Academic Titles and Degrees



- 4 -
Table 1.1: Growth of Higher Education Enrollment 1989/90-1994/95
89/90     90/91     91/92    92/93       93/94     94/95
Public              44        48         56        56       NA         58
Institutions
Public             101        186       220       237       NA         NA
Faculties
Enrollments     164,507    230,088    288,586   326,281    362,537   401,153
Public          164,507    202,810    225,226   236,561   251,657   255,273
Private              0     27,278    63,360    89,720    110,880   145,880
1.12 Private Education. Nowhere in Eastern or Central Europe has private higher
education developed more rapidly than in Romania, which had no history of private
university education prior to 1989. The first private universities started operations in 1990
and quickly developed into a dynamic private higher education sector. A law passed in 1990
allowing non-government entities to provide educational services was the foundation for the
creation of a private sector in higher education. High student demand and the limited
absorptive capacity of public institutions led to the establishment of as many as 73 private
institutions, almost all of which claimed university status and proposed to grant degrees.
These institutions, which rely largely upon part-time teaching staff from the public
universities, enroll about a third of total university enrollments -- comparable to the share of
private higher education enrollments in the U.S. While the private institutions mainly recruit
students who fail to gain entry to a public university, admission is reported to be
competitive. For example, the Ecology University in 1993/4 accepted about one in six
applicants, a decrease from a ratio of one to ten in 1990/91, but still sufficient to ensure
continued growth. Further expansion of the private sector is likely to be constrained,
principally by the shortage of teaching staff, particularly in market-oriented specializations.
1.13 Enrollment by Field of Study. One of the most remarkable transformations in
Romanian higher education in the 1990s has been the shift of students by field of study. Led
by shifts in student demands, enrollment in engineering programs has declined sharply, both
as a share of total public enrollment and in absolute numbers. About 65 percent of
university students were registered in engineering programs in 1989, but this proportion
decreased to 31 percent in 1994 (See Table 2). Enrollment in economics more than doubled
its share to 20 percent, and the share of enrollments in sciences, social sciences and
humanities more than tripled to 31 percent. In the 1994 entrance examinations, there were
20 candidates per place in some law faculties, while in many engineering fields, admission
standards had to be lowered to fill the available places.



- 5 -
Table 1.2: Distribution of Public Higher Education Enrollment by Field of Study,
1989-1994 (percent)
Field                   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
Engineering                               65      59     54      38      31
Agriculture                                4      4       4       4       4
Econoniics                                 9      10      12     20      20
Law                                        1      3       4       3       2
Medicine                                   10     10      10      7       10
Sciences, Social Sciences, Humanities      10     14      16     25      31
Fine Arts                                  1       1      2       3       2
Total                                     100    100    100    100       100
(Total Enrollments in thousands)        (165)  (203)  (225)   (237)   (252)
1.14  New Teaching Programs. Teaching programs in market-oriented subjects are in heavy
demand by students. These include management, business administration, small business
development, accountancy, auditing, finance, and banking. Because of labor market
uncertainty, students increasingly seek to broaden their academic training, including by
acquiring multiple specializations in order to enhance their possibilities for employment in an
evolving market economy. At the Polytechnic University of Bucharest, broader areas of
specialization, such as electrical and mechanical engineering, instead of electro-technical
industrial engineering or fine mechanical engineering, are now emphasized. Progress has
also been made in reforming the organization and methods of instruction. Credit-hour based
programs of study are being introduced, particularly by private institutions, thereby
enhancing flexibility. In 1994 the number of hours of compulsory instruction per week was
reduced from an average of 35 hours to an average of 26 hours. This is a prerequisite for
increased efficiency in the use of staff and facilities.
1.15 Ouality Assurance. An important step in the direction of quality standards was taken
in 1993 with the passage of a law on accreditation and academic evaluation. The objective
of this law is to promote diversification of programs, foster greater complementarity in the
roles of public and private institutions, and better inform consumers about institutional
choices and program quality. The law sets out general criteria and minimum standards
which institutions must satisfy to be accredited as a university. These relate to their forms of
governance, organization of programs, teaching staff and instructional resources as well as to
the proportion of their budgets used for quality improvements. Institutions that cannot meet



- 6 -
the requirements may obtain provisional authorization to function for a probationary period,
or seek recognition as another kind of higher education institution with approval to grant only
certificates. The law also sets out criteria for accreditation of individual programs. Initially,
all institutions, public and private, and all programs established after 1989 were subject to
evaluation, including new programs offered by the older universities.
1.16 The newly-established Accreditation Council has evaluated nearly 2,000 academic
programs, 1,500 of them offered by private institutions. Programs submitted by private
institutions have been reviewed and authorization has been granted to offer the programs at
the degree level in about 25 percent of the applications reviewed. A high proportion of
applications for degree programs currently offered by private institutions in technical and
professional fields like engineering and medicine were rejected. The success rate is much
higher in economics, law and similar fields with more modest requirements for instructional
resources. To date, about 50 percent of programs submitted by public institutions have been
approved, again mostly for instruction in applied social sciences. National examinations are
being prepared to assess the equivalence of programs and to certify the credentials of
graduates in professional fields.
1.17  Cost Recovery. Cost recovery from students contributes significantly to the financing
of public higher education. Student fees currently finance 23 percent of the costs of public
higher education -- a high percentage by international standards and much higher than
Eastern and Western European countries. The imposition of student fees in Romania is
limited by the provision in the 1990 Constitution that states the Government is to provide
"free public higher education ... according to the law." The Government has constructively
interpreted the provision to allow charging fees for regular courses taken by non-Romanian
students3, and for subsidiary activities for Romanian students, including: admissions
examinations, re-examinations, repeated courses, elective studies and part-time studies,
postgraduate studies, registration and matriculation, and board and accommodation. In
addition, between 1993 and 1995 the Ministry of Education allowed the public universities to
collect fees from students admitted beyond the enrollment quotas negotiated by the Finance
Ministry and the Education Ministry.4 Tuition for these "extra-quota" students ranged from
$70 to $360 per term.
1.18 There are clear indications of capacity and willingness to pay for higher education.
This is apparent not only in the fees paid by extra-quota Romanian students in public
universities, but -- more fundamentally -- by the vigorous growth of fully self-financing
private higher education during the past five years. Fees in private higher education
3  Foreign students, who comprise just five percent of full-time public university enrollments, account for
70 percent of all student fee income.
4  The setting of admission quotas was suspended as of the 1994/95 academic year.



- 7 -
institutions range from about $200 to $500 per year. Fees at the more expensive private
institutions are thus comparable to average unit costs in public higher education (US$ 442 per
year in 1994), and roughly 40 percent of GDP per capita. Moreover, many of the students
admitted free to public universities take private tutoring courses to pass the entrance
examinations to the elite public universities. These courses often cost as much as a full year
of tuition in a private university.
1.19  Postgraduate Programs and Academic Research. In order to support restructuring of
undergraduate programs and train the next generation of academics, the Government has
reformed the structure of postgraduate studies and given priority to strengthening academic
research. New course-based Masters programs are being introduced, enabling the shortening
of the first degree cycle. Doctoral studies also combine supervised research with advanced
training -- no longer is the doctoral degree a result of part time studies leading to the
production of a thesis. Doctoral and Masters programs will be offered at about 40
institutions which have been determined by the Accreditation Council to possess adequate
facilities. However, program proposals will be assessed on the basis of the merits of the
application and national need for the proposed program. This is necessary to ensure that
scarce public resources are concentrated on the development of future centers of excellence,
most of which will have linkages to leading institutions in Western Europe. Similarly,
support for Masters and doctoral students research will be closely articulated with
competitive funding for staff research in order to strengthen high performing research units,
and increase production of graduates. The National University Research Council was
established in 1995 for this purpose. It has already organized two grant competitions.
D.   Major Unresolved Issues
1.20 Despite the many accomplishments recorded thus far in the 1990s in Romanian higher
education, acute problems persist, most notably, underfinancing, quality problems owing to
teacher shortages, and inefficient financial transfer mechanisms.
1.21 Underfinancing: Inadequate Financial Resources for Higher Education. Romania
currently spends a smaller share of GDP on higher education than other countries in the ECA
region. Higher education expenditures account for 0.5 percent of GDP in Romania, versus
1.0 percent in Hungary and 1.1 percent in Turkey. Romania, like most countries in Central
and Eastern Europe, compares its educational spending effort to European countries, since
Romania seeks to join the European Union shortly after the turn of the century and also
because Romanian universities trace a long history back to the medieval universities of
Europe. By this comparison, spending on Romanian higher education relative to GDP falls
short again, with the OECD countries, most of which are European, spending 1.9 percent of
GDP on higher education. However, since OECD countries have much higher per capita
income than those in Eastern Europe, comparisons with middle income countries may be



- 8 -
more appropriate. For example, many high performing Asian economies spent more, such
as Malaysia, which spent 2.0 percent, and Singapore, which spent 1.8 percent.5
1.22 A more relevant indicator, because it takes into account the enrollment and also
partially cancels out the effect of foreign exchange rates, is public expenditure on higher
education per student relative to per capita GDP. The public budget now provides just
US$309 per student per year6 in higher education, or 25.2 percent of per-capita GDP. This
proportion is well below the level of expenditures in most other transition countries -- for
example, 52.8 percent in Slovakia, 43.2 percent in Poland, 102.8 percent in Albania, and
108.9 percent in Hungary -- and just half of the OECD average level of public support for
higher education (50.5 percent of GDP per capita), including the United States (53.6
percent). Compared to East Asian economies, where the corresponding figures are 62 percent
for Japan, 104 percent for Korea and 92 percent for China, Romania again ranks low.
1.23 The low level of expenditures for higher education in Romania in part reflects the
serious drop in public expenditures since the start of the transition. While enrollments in
public institutions of higher education have increased at an average rate of nine percent per
year since the start of the transition, overall funding for both teaching and research functions
has declined sharply. Consequently, financial resources for public institutions of higher
education are no longer minimally adequate, and the quality of public higher education has
suffered in all areas. The total financial resources of public universities, measured in 1995
Lei, were 39 percent less in 1994/95 than in 1989/90. Expressed in per-student terms, the
decline was even more serious. Total real financial resources per student' declined by over
60 percent since the start of the transition -- from 1,880,000 Lei (or US$1,113) in 1989/90
to 746,000 Lei (or US$442) in 1994/95.
5   See Annex I for more discussion of these comparisons. Comparisons such as these, while interesting and
suggestive, need to be treated with caution. They must be looked at more carefully over time and in light of the
economic and historical circumstances of the countries.
6   I.e., 70 percent of average per-student resources of US$442.
7   Current Lei expenditures, deflated by the GDP deflator.



- 9 -
Table 1.3: Financial Resources for Public Higher Education
by Source, 1988/89 - 1994/95
Total         Total        Resources     Percentage
Year        Resources     Resources    Per Student    Financed        Percentage
(billions of   ( billions of    (thousands    from State      Self
current Lei)   1995 Lei)8   of 1995 Lei)      Budget        Financed
1988/89         2.2           232.6          1,459           66            349
1989/90         3.3           309.3          1,880           86             14
1990/91         10.4          335.1          1,652           9              5
1991/92         29.4          303.1          1,345           96             4
1992/93         87.1          288.1          1,218           90             10
1993/94        151.7          204.8           814            83             17
1994/95        190.4          190.4           746            70            30
1.24  The effect of the underfunding of higher education is that most facilities are
overcrowded, poorly maintained, and lack the materials and equipment required for effective
learning. Libraries, which play a vital role in the modernization of pedagogy and the
development of more flexible programs, have suffered particularly from budgetary neglect.
The shortage of funding for university libraries to cover stock acquisition, automation,
refurbishment and training is acute.
1.25  Whether expressed in terms of total or per-student expenditures, or as a share of
GDP, Romania is allocating far less to higher education than the OECD countries, and many
other transition countries. Eventually, Romania should consider raising the share of total
resources -- including budgetary resources -- which it devotes to higher education. However,
the current tight limits on public expenditures which are needed to ensure macro stability and
the release of resources for private-sector growth, as well as the priority which must be
accorded to basic education, make increases in support for higher education a medium-term
prospect.
a  Current lei converted to 1995 lei through use of GDP deflator.
9  This percentage is mainly accounted for by contract research with state enterprises, and not by
student contribtions, as in subsequent years.



- 10 -
1.26  Teacher Shortages.  The shortage of staff, especially in fields of high student
demand, is a serious constraint both in improving responsiveness to the labor market and in
curriculum modernization. As in most Central and Eastern European countries, the overall
student/teacher ratio in Romania is seemingly relatively low in comparison to Western
Europe or North America. This reflects a labor-intensive pedagogy and the excessive
specialization of academic programs. The ratio of students to authorized teaching staff in
Romanian public universities (13:1) has been constant since 1989. However, the actual
average ratio of students to teaching staff has since grown to 22:1 because of a rise in
unfilled teaching vacancies in fields with expanding enrollments. This compares to higher
education average student/teacher ratios of 6.6 in Hungary, 7.1 in Slovakia, 9.8 in Bulgaria,
and 10.7 in Russia.
1.27  These overall student/teacher ratios in public higher education conceal the major
variation across specializations which has emerged since the start of the transition. The
composition of enrollments in higher education has been thoroughly reconfigured by student
response to changed economic opportunities. Staffing rigidities in the public universities
have led to overstaffing in stagnant fields such as engineering, and serious understaffing in
growth fields such as business and accounting. For example, the share of enrollments in
economics and business courses in public universities increased from 9 percent to 20 percent
of (rapidly expanding) total enrollments. The public universities have not been able to attract
qualified staff in these growth areas, both because there is an acute shortage of people with
the requisite training and qualifications and because they are not able to offer salaries and
other incentives which are competitive with the private sector. As a result of these staffing
rigidities, the student/teacher ratio in economics and business courses has grown to more
than 50:1. Another consequence is that few of the existing teaching staff in these areas have
the benefit of recent training or experience abroad. The staffing situation is the reverse in
the specializations of declining popularity. In engineering, for example, the actual
student/staff ratio declined from 19.1:1 in 1989 to 11.5:1 in 1993. The drop would have
been sharper still if engineering faculties had not lowered admissions standards in an
unsuccessful attempt to maintain intake levels. Reducing staff to improve efficiency in
specializations with declining enrollments will require a fundamental change in the
employment status of staff in public higher education institutions. Currently, these staff are
civil servants, and benefit from the job stability which is customary for the civil service.
Tenured faculty have further protection against job loss.
1.28  Most vacant teaching posts in the public universities are in the junior faculty grades.
At the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies, for example, only 30 percent of assistant
lecturer posts were filled in 1993, and less than half at the lecturer level. Staff workloads
(10 to 12 hours of instruction per week at junior faculty grades and 6 to 8 hours per week
for professors) are comparable to, or higher than, Western European or North American
norms. Thus, there is little room for solving the faculty shortage in growing specializations
by increasing teaching requirements for existing faculty. To retain existing staff, the public



- 11 -
universities are using savings from vacant posts to supplement salaries for highly demanded
specializations and are allowing their staff to teach at private institutions.
1.29  The inability of public universities to attract qualified junior faculty in fields of
growing demand has several negative consequences. In particular, it deprives students and
other faculty of the infusion of new ideas which freshly trained -- especially,
foreign-trained faculty -- would bring. Reducing further the number of hours of compulsory
classroom instruction for students would improve efficiency in the utilization of scarce staff
resources, and would enable public universities to reduce the most excessive class sizes or to
accommodate more students in fields of high demand without increasing staffing or class
sizes. It would also increase pressure for programmed staff redundancies in academic units
with low student enrollments. However, reductions in weekly class requirements would not
alleviate the overall staff shortage in high demand fields or the increasing reliance on
inappropriately trained senior staff.
1.30 The shortage of teaching staff is exacerbated by the present relatively low capacity of
postgraduate training facilities needed to produce the next generation of academic staff. The
present annual output of individuals with doctoral degrees or equivalent qualifications is
below 2,000 per year, about one-quarter of whom are newly returned from training abroad.
That total is less than a third of the number of new academic positions created in 1994
(6,000). Acceleration of academic restructuring will require large-scale staff retraining,
expanding opportunities for foreign study, and development of postgraduate programs --
coupled with measures to increase the attractiveness of academic employment. Retraining of
existing staff, particularly in economics and other expanding fields in the social sciences, will
require a major effort. Postgraduate, as well as undergraduate training in many social-
science disciplines such as sociology and psychology was suspended, or the size of programs
considerably reduced, in the 1980s, when the country entered a period of economic and
intellectual isolation. Most staff who are now teaching these specialties received their
training more than two decades ago, and had no opportunity to keep abreast of developments
in their disciplines until 1990. Many staff who are teaching specialties of importance to a
market economy, such as business administration and marketing, have no formal training in
these fields. Most were trained in the tradition of central economic planning. Similarly, in
many rapidly growing interdisciplinary fields such as materials science, information
technology, biotechnology and ecology, most staff are being retrained "on the job," and are
not being given opportunities to update and broaden their professional expertise. Moreover,
new ways of organizing and servicing academic programs require retraining of academic staff
in methods of teaching and student assessment.
1.31  Inefficient Budgetary Mechanisms  The current process for allocating public
resources to higher education contributes to widespread inefficiency of resource use, as
reflected in widely varying unit costs across higher education institutions for the same
programs. Even though overall financing is relatively low, some institutions or fields have



- 12 -
excessively high unit costs that need to be reduced. Continued financing of programs with
high unit costs at historical levels of support would perpetuate both the high unit costs and
the inefficient teaching practices which cause them.
1.32  Core budget support from the recurrent budget was traditionally allocated to public
higher education institutions according to coefficients which determined allocations for
detailed expenditure items, many of which were based on the physical size of the institution
or the number of staff. Once these budget allocations were determined, institutions had very
little discretion to reallocate funds to other uses. In determining an institution's core budget
allocation, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education took into account estimates
of cost recovery from student fees and other sources. Projected resources from cost recovery
were subtracted from an institution's core budget entitlement under the scheme. A common
response by institutions was to attempt to keep internally generated income from fees,
charges, contract research and other sources off-budget, i.e., in a separate account. In
addition to the problem of providing inadequate incentives for efficient performance, the
budget process for higher education suffered from other deficiencies. The process for
allocating capital budgets for new construction and major equipment for public institutions of
higher education relied largely upon personal persuasion and subjective judgements.
1.33  These methods of allocating public resources for higher education have serious
weaknesses: a) they reward physical size and other institutional characteristics more than
current enrollments; thereby directing too many resources to institutions and programs with
declining enrollments, and depriving growing institutions and programs of the resources
which they need; b) budget coefficients are institution-and-expenditure-specific, thereby
perpetuating inefficiencies in instruction and depriving institutions of the discretion which
they need to improve the quality and efficiency of their programs; c) the existing methods
provide no incentives to raise educational quality; and d) they discourage institutions from
raising their own revenues through cost recovery.



- 13 -
II. REFORMS IN HIGHER EDUCATION
A. Higher Education Sector Reform Program
2.1   The reform program adopted by the Government in late 1994 and reflected in the
Education Law mid-1995 is the culmination of a steady and deliberative process begun in
early 1993. In 1993 the Romanian Government established a high level Consultative Group
on the Reform of Higher Education and Research to carry out the necessary technical studies
and prepare a strategy of reform, which was adopted by the Government in November 1994
and incorporated into the Education Law of July 1995. The initiatives to be undertaken in
the reform program can be organized under five main objectives: (a) improving the external
productivity of higher education; (b) assuring the quality of academic programs; (c)
improving the internal efficiency of higher education; (d) assuring equity of access as cost
recovery increases in higher education; and (e) rationalizing the management of higher
education at both system and institutional levels. Each of these objectives is described below
(see Annex 2 for the Letter of Sector Development Policy and Annex 3 for the Policy Matrix
for more details on policy objectives and actions).
2.2   External productivity. The reform program envisions a system of higher education
that is more responsive to the needs of the emerging market economy. This objective is
being pursued by changing the content of programs, readjusting the relative size of programs,
and building in more flexibility. New fields, such as business and modern macro- and
micro-economics, that were lacking during the socialist era, are being introduced, while
other fields, such as central planning, have been eliminated. Overspecialization in some
technical and engineering fields has been eliminated and interdisciplinary programs are being
introduced. The relative size of enrollments is also being readjusted with less enrollment in
engineering fields and more in business fields. Flexibility will be increased by implementing
the recent introduction of short programs (two-year certificates and three-year diplomas), and
ensuring provisions for retraining and continuing education. More transfers between
programs and institutions and double majors with electives are now allowed by the
introduction of the credit system.
2.3   A number of important measures will be introduced in the next year to support the
actions already underway. Competitive grants will be offered to provide incentives for
further development of new programs, consolidation of traditional specializations, and other
teaching innovations. The introduction of norm-based or formula funding based upon
enrollments and average unit costs will ensure that resources follow changing student demand
for different courses. Since the funding formula is to be based upon full-time equivalent
students, as defined by the number of course credits, the incentive will be strong for
institutions to adopt a credit system that would add more flexibility to their curricula.
Flexibility will also be enhanced by the provisions of the new Teacher Law (under



- 14 -
consideration by Parliament) that allows for institutions to engage instructors on a contract
basis with more flexibility in pay scales, depending upon demand for courses.
2.4   Ouality assurance. The reform program also seeks to revitalize academic programs in
order to assure higher quality standards, especially in the newly developing universities (both
private and public). The Accreditation Law (1993), which established the Accreditation
Council, was a major milestone towards this objective. Quality of programs will also be
improved by addressing the shortage of faculty in the faster growing fields. Postgraduate
programs have been established to train the next generation of academic staff for an
expanding private higher education sector and the restructuring of the overall system. Since
research is an integral part of the training of academic staff, the National University
Research Council was established through the Education Law to fund development of new
postgraduate programs and related research on a competitive basis using rigorous peer
review, as is common in Western Europe and North America.
2.5   A set of actions remains to be taken that will strengthen the quality assurance
mechanisms already introduced. Accountability for maintaining standards will be achieved
through periodic review of programs as provided for in the Accreditation Law. Standards
and procedures for periodic quality evaluations will be developed and applied by the
academic year 1997/98. Incentives for quality improvements at both the undergraduate and
postgraduate levels will be introduced in 1997/8 through competitive grants for program
innovation and research. Public expenditures will be allocated to make up for past neglect by
increasing resources to development, innovations and capital investment to at least 20 percent
of total public spending on higher education by 1998/99. Postgraduate studies will be
concentrated in selected institutions so that resources can be focused on developing high
quality programs.
2.6   Internal Efficiency. An objective of the reform program is to limit public
expenditures on higher education by making more efficient use of public sector resources and
mobilizing private resources to help finance needed improvements in the system. Public
budgetary efficiency would be enhanced by the introduction of open, transparent procedures
for funding higher education institutions. The basic features of the new allocation process
are:
(a)   Recurrent expenditures. Core budget funding is to be awarded to public
institutions of higher education according to performance and efficiency norns
which encourage institutions to adjust enrollment by field according to student
demand. The level and distribution of enrollments and average unit costs
countrywide in each field are to be the predominant elements in determining
core budgets. Total core budget financing is to be deliberately set low enough
so that no institution can survive on core budget financing alone. All public
higher education institutions will thus need to mobilize additional resources



- 15 -
through cost recovery, and to compete vigorously for both development and
capital budgets, as next explained.
(b)   Development funding. The portion of the recurrent budget formerly allocated
centrally to public higher education institutions for facilities rehabilitation and
equipment is to be expanded and transformed to a system of competitive grants
which will support new initiatives to improve program quality and to develop
new teaching capacity in areas of growing demand. To encourage quality
improvements and program diversification throughout the higher education
system, these grants will be provided to accredited institutions of higher
education in both the public and private sectors.
(c)   Capital financing. The process for allocating capital budgets for new
construction and major equipment for public institutions of higher education,
formerly ad hoc and opaque, is to be transformed to a transparent process in
which institutions' proposed long-term development plans are reviewed against
explicit development criteria.
2.7   Actions intended for the near term to strengthen private resources mobilization
include: (a) improving the sustainability and quality of private higher education by removing
constraints on supply of academic staff; (b) within the public higher education sector,
pursuing the aim of having non-public sources contribute at least 30 percent of the recurrent
budget of public institutions by 1998/99. This will be accomplished by the incentives that
institutions now have to charge fees and raise other revenues beyond their public budgetary
allocation without being penalized by having their allocations reduced if they are successful
at providing services and retaining revenues.
2.8   While relying upon more cost recovery and private family resources, the Government
reform aims to ensure that academically able, but poor, students have access to higher
education. This would be done by changing the basis of allocating student support to take
both academic merit and financial need into account. Based upon provisions of the
Education Law, the Government approved in 1996 a decree for a new student support
scheme for public institutions to be implemented in academic year 1996/97. This new
scheme would provide three categories of financial aid: (a) scholarships based solely upon
academic merit would comprise about three percent of the student support budget; (b) most
of the funding for student support will be provided by scholarships for poor but academically
meritorious students (social scholarships in the Romanian terminology); and, (c) the
remainder of the student support budget would be allocated mainly according to merit, but
with financial need also being taken into consideration (study scholarships). Scholarships to
needy students for living expenses -- typically, the largest component of scholarships -- are to
be paid in cash directly to the students, rather than to institutions, in order to encourage
greater efficiency in the provision of student services. Incentives will be provided to



- 16 -
accredited private institutions to provide scholarships to needy but talented students by
making such need based scholarships a condition of their eligibility to compete for public
funds under the project. In the medium term, as the commercial banking system develops, a
loan scheme would be introduced as another option available to students to finance their
higher education.
2.9    System and Institution Management. Finally, better system and institutional
management would be sought as a key means to decentralize and rationalize the system.
This would be done by continuing to devolve professional and policy functions to
intermediary councils, and to build the autonomy of individual institutions. Actions to be
taken within the next year include the reorganization of the Ministry of Education to reflect
its new functions resulting from the reform program. The intermediary councils will also be
adequately staffed and provided with operational resources to carry out their responsibilities.
2.10   At the institutional level, 28 institutions have prepared development plans as part of a
pilot exercise in 1995/96. The Education Law provides for the establishment of internal
governance structures and efforts have already begun in 1995 in many institutions to establish
separate administrative and academic functions. In the next year, all institutions will have to
prepare institutional development plans as part of their participation in the competitive grants
programs. The managers of institutions will have to select their priorities through internal
review of competitive grant proposals to be submitted by the institutions. Further measures
to be introduced in the next year are the building of professional management through
separate salary streams for administrators and the creation of management information
systems to support institutional and system decision making.
B.    Financial Implications of the Reforms
2.11   In the context of the overall reform program, Table 2.1 summarizes the profile of
total public expenditure on education, and on higher education from 1995 to 2000. The 1995
expenditure numbers are based on actual budget allocations; the levels for 1996-2000 are
projected. Information is given in constant 1995 prices. The information in this table relates
to the situation which is expected to prevail without any injection of extra funds from outside
sources, such as the World Bank, or from extra revenues generated
by individual institutions (other than "Special Fund""10 tuition resources), such as internal
revenues, donations, etc. For these reasons Table 2.1 is referred to as the base-line forecast.
10 The Special Fund, based upon tuition and fees from foreign students, has recently been abolished, and foreign
exchange earnings from foreign students now accrue to institutions as direct income. However, the term Special
Fund is still used for ease of cross-reference to other documents.



- 17 -
Table 2.1: Global Education Expenditures 1995 to 2000
(Base-line forecast, US$ million, 1995 prices)
Average
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   Growth Rate
1                                  GDP    34420    35482    35837    36195    36557    36923           1.42%
2           All Public Education Expenditure  1209    1361     1371     1384      1395     1406        3.17%
3    Higher Education Budgetary Expenditure   117      139      146      152      159      166         7.39%
4                   Other Higher Education     39       60       62       65       68       71        14.21%
5            Total Higher Education (3+4)     156      199      208      217      227      237         9.09%
Source: Consultative Group for Higher Education, Mosteanu et al.,(1995).
2.12 The public expenditure levels per student implied by the base-line data in Table 2.1 is
summarized below in Table 2.2. Information is given on both a per student and a full-time
equivalent student (FTE) basis for the public university sector. The overall levels of
expenditure are extremely low by international standards, but there is room for real growth
in all of the subsectors. Growth in the share of the budget going to higher education would
not be at the expense of real resource allocation per student in primary and secondary
education, as the expenditure for the sector as a whole is projected to increase to 4 percent of
GDP starting 1996 as required by the Education Law.
Table 2.2: Real Per Student Public Expenditures: 1995-2000
(Base-line forecasts, US Dollars, 1995 prices)
1995       1996       1997        1998       1999        2000
Forecast Enrollment (Public Universities)  254100  259100      259750     253003      252796      255726
Forecast FTE Enrollment (Public
Universities)    213181      271096     271834      267238     261911      271067
State Budget Higher Educaton
Expenditure per Student      460        536         656        600         627         647
State Budget Higher Education
Expenditure per FTE Student        446         613        536         568         644        o11
Total Higher Education Expenditure per
Student        614        766         808        858         896         925
Total Higher Education Expenditure
per FTE Student         593        732         765        812         849         872
Primary and Secondary Educabon
Expenditure per Student      255        290         295        299         301         304



- 18 -
2.13 Taking the base-line data from Table 2.1 and adding in the extra costs of specific
reform items gives higher totals, which appear in the Income and Expenditure tables 2.3.
These extra expenditures are mainly on postgraduate education and extra capital costs
associated with new programs and enrollment increases. There are other relatively minor
adjustments arising from estimates of extra costs and cost savings arising from the program
for reform of higher education. The extra costs identified in table 2.3 do not correspond
exactly to the proposed investment program items shown later. This is because the
investment program involves the re-orientation of some existing planned items, and their
integration with new policy initiatives.
Table 2.3: Higher Education Investment Program
(US$ million, Constant 1995 prices)
TOTAL
[1996-20001   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
i                             State Budget        760.6     139    145.6    151.9    158.6    165.5
2                         All Other Sources       412.7     74.3     79.2      83.4     85.8     90.0
3                       Total Income (1+2)       1173.3    213.3    224.8    235.3    244.4    265.6
4                  Basic Current Expenditure      912.4    168.8    175.8    182.3    189.2    196.3
5                       Graduate Programs          45.9      6.6      8.7      10.1      9.7     10.8
6             All Current Expenditure (4+5)       968.3    176.4    134.5    192.4    198.9    207.1
7                  Basic Capital Expenditure      174.4     29.8     32.3     34.7      37.4     40.2
8              Additional Capital Expenditure       41       8.2      8.2      8.2       8.2      8.2
9             All Capital Expenditure (7+8)       211.4     38.0     40.1     42.9      46.6     48.4
1 0                  (of which Grad Program)         8.8      1.2      1.6       1.9      1.9      2.2
1 1                  Total Expenditure (6+9)      1173.7    213.4      226    235.3    244.5    255.5
12   Identified Development Expenditure (5+9)      261.3     44.6     49.2       53      55.3     59.2
13           Identified Extra Resources (5+8)       86.9     14.8     16.9      18.3     17.9     19.0
2.14 The total extra resources required, in addition to the base-line total, is about $86.9
million (line 13 of Table 2.3). It is not likely that this level of additional investment funds
for reform implementation can be secured from domestic resources because of the already
high level of private financing, particularly from students. This is evident in the increase in
the number of institutions reporting significant uncollected student fees.
C.     Remaining Priorities
2.15   The steps taken since the start of the transition to change the Romanian higher
education system constitute an impressive start in reshaping higher education to meet the



- 19 -
needs of a market economy. This early progress needs to be reinforced and extended. The
priority areas for further implementation and development reform include the following:
(a)    Management. The need to develop the capacity of newly-created intermediary
institutions and management capabilities of higher education institutions to
exercise effectively their newly-gained autonomy.
(b)   Structure. Implementation of newly introduced short-cycle programs in higher
education, especially successfully introducing college programs and programs
for continuing education.
(c)   Quality. Greater development financing needs to be channeled into the system
to make up for past neglect and redress quality problems. This applies
particularly to new infusions of development funds for innovation in teaching
processes and materials in market-oriented fields; to bring traditional fields up-
to-date; and to develop new interdisciplinary programs. In addition, greater
flexibility needs to be achieved through such measures as full implementation
of the credit-hour system.
(d)   Postgraduate programs and academic research are priority areas for expansion
and development, in part because of the urgency of increasing qualified
teaching staff for undergraduate programs.
(e)    Budgetary Transfer Mechanisms. The system of financial allocations must be
changed to accommodate student flows, labor market interests and also to
provide incentives for efficiency in resource use.
(f)    Private Education and Cost-recovery. Greater efforts must be made at
relieving supply constraints on expansion of private education and to reinforce
cost recovery in public higher education; in parallel, targeting student support
to the most needy.






- 20 -
III. THE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
A.   Objectives
3.1   The proposed project aims at supporting implementation of the Government's overall
policy framework (see Chapter 2 and Annexes 2 and 3), including specific assistance for new
program development, quality improvement, and strengthening management. Overall policy
objectives and the specific contribution of the proposed project in this context are explained
below.
3.2   Objective 1. Improve the external productivity of higher education, i.e., reorient
higher education to make it more responsive to the market economy by: (a) introducing new
content and interdisciplinary programs; (b) adjusting the size of various programs to better
reflect market demand; (c) building in flexibility in teaching organizations and programs; (d)
full introduction of a credit system by 1997/8; and (e) full introduction of norm-based
formula financing and block grants for recurrent expenditures by 1997/8. The proposed
proiect would specifically provide financing for new flexible elements of higher education,
including: diploma programs and continuing education; development financing on a
competitive basis for introducing new content and interdisciplinary programs; and
improvement of labor market information systems.
3.3   Objective 2. Revitalize academic programs so as to achieve higher quality standards
by means of: (a) application of accreditation standards to programs and institutions; (b)
linking educational results to financial allocations; (c) establishing incentives for program
innovation; (d) achieving better balance between development and recurrent expenditures; (e)
development of postgraduate education to relieve constraints on teacher supply; and (f)
development of academic research as integral part of postgraduate education. Specific targets
include 20 percent of total public education expenditures on development, innovations and
capital investment by 1998/9. In this context, the proposed project would provide financial
incentives for program innovation, reinforce the infusion of development financing, and
specifically target postgraduate program development and academic research.
3.4   Objective 3. Control public expenditures on education through more efficient use and
diversification of financing from other sources. This includes: (a) rationalizing the
organization of teaching programs; (b) adopting new budget allocation procedures with
efficiency incentives; (c) expanding private education; and (d) achieving greater cost recovery
in public education. Specific targets include: private enrollment to reach 25% percent of
total higher education enrollment by 1999/2000; non-public sources contribute at least 30
percent of total recurrent expenditures in public higher education institutions by 1998/9. In
this context, the proposed proiect would help remove constraints on expansion of private
education by increasing the supply of qualified teaching staff; ensure the access of private



- 21 -
institutions to competitive grants for program development and innovation; and rationalize the
process for approval of capital grant requests.
3.5   Objective 4. Ensure that needy but talented students have access to higher education.
The proposed project would: (a) introduce a new support scheme for students in public
institutions; and (b) provide incentives to accredited private higher education institutions to
support needy but talented students. Targets include: no less than 20 percent of scholarships
allocated to needy but talented students, and limit merit-alone scholarships to 3 percent of
overall student support budget.
3.6   Objective 5. Strengthen system and institution management in terms of strategic
planning capacities, professional planning and control, and better institutional management
and administration. This includes: (a) redefining the central government role in higher
education management; (b) establishment of professional intermediary institutions; and (c)
decentralization by ensuring that higher education institutions are able to exercise delegated
authority. The proposed project would help the recently established intermediary
organizations function as intended through selecting grant proposals for financing, by
requiring that institution development plans become a prerequisite for access to competitive
grants, requiring higher education institution management to select grant priorities through
internal review and supporting technical assistance and information systems development.
3.7   During Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will maintain its
commitment to the measures in the sector policy matrix (Annex 3) agreed at appraisal
and that it will consult with the Bank annually in the execution of intended measures
and any changes in the policy.
B.    Project Content
3.8   The proposed project would finance programs in three broad areas: management
capacity improvement, undergraduate program innovation, and postgraduate teaching and
research. Each is presented below in sequence.
Component I: Management Capacity Improvement. (Proposed Outlay: $14.3 million)
3.9   The objective of this component is to strengthen the management capacity of the
higher education system by assisting the new intermediary organizations and developing the
capacity of individual higher education institutions to respond to systemic reforms.
(a)   Management of the Higher Education Councils. Each of the councils will
prepare a staff development plan identifying the training needed for
professional and support staff in consultation with vendors supplying technical
assistance. A consolidated staff development plan will be presented by the



- 22 -
secretariat to the British Know How Fund and other donors supporting this
subcomponent. Professional staff of the councils would receive practical
training, much of it provided in the form of short-term apprenticeships. This
training would focus on learning the policies, procedures, organization and
reporting practices of agencies concerned with accreditation, establishing
degree equivalency, higher education financing, and university research. As a
result of this training, the Romanian intermediary agencies will be better able
to prepare staff recruitment and development plans, organize their staff more
efficiently, and to develop decision making support and reporting systems.
This subcomponent provides funding for local and foreign non-degree training
and study visits, per diem and travel costs for the professional staff and
Secretariat of the Councils.
(b)   Management of Higher Education Institutions. Support will be provided to
assist the Councils to offer seminars/workshops for administrators and staff of
higher education institutions on such topics as preparing institutional/program
self-diagnoses, designing institutional formula funding mechanisms to distribute
budgets to faculties and programs, techniques for long term institutional and
budget planning, management of student services, improving targeting of
student financial support, and research management. The subcomponent
would support per diem, travel, professional honoraria, printing materials and
other local organizing costs. About 10 training seminars/workshops would be
organized per year, the majority at institutions outside the capital region.
Most would involve 10 to 15 participants, except for large seminars held in
Bucharest.
(c)    Management Information Systems. To improve decision making, assistance
will be provided to establish management information systems to support the
activities of the Councils and communications between the higher education
institutions and the Councils. These systems will facilitate updating, analysis
and sharing of data received from higher education institutions on their
enrollment, staffing mix, instructional facilities and resources, expenditures,
revenues, academic and budgetary plans and other information used for
accreditation, financing, system-wide strategic planning and periodic evaluation
of grants for teaching, program development and student financial assistance.
The National Higher Education Financing Council will also conduct or
commission studies on the national economy and labor market that are relevant
to strategic planning for the higher education system. The National University
Research Council will receive assistance to establish a data base on applicants,
peer reviewers, grants awarded and audits of funded projects. The project
would provide equipment, materials, training and technical assistance, which
will be financed by grants from the EU and bilateral donors.



- 23 -
(d)   Project Administration. To monitor the implementation of the Bank-financed
elements (Components II and III), a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been
established under the Directorate of Higher Education. The project will
support the operations of the PCU including the provision of appropriate office
facilities and equipment, locally funded specialist services in project
administration, and training of PCU staff in procurement, disbursement and
project administration practices. The functions of the PCU are further
described in para 4.25. The terms of reference of the PCU are described in
the Project Implementation Plan.
Component II: Undergraduate and Continuing Education (Proposed Outlay: $27.6 million)
3.10  The proposed project would provide financial support on a competitive basis for the
development of new undergraduate teaching programs, i.e., at or below first degree level.
The basic purpose of the assistance is to help reorient the system of higher education to make
it more responsive to market demands. The assistance would support the implementation of
the Government's overall reform program in three respects: (a) building flexibility in the
structure of higher education; (b) changing the content of higher education; and (c)
improving the effectiveness of the teaching process. Structural flexibility would be achieved
by supporting the diversification of levels of instruction in higher education, including
shorter, non-degree programs. Changing content would mean introducing or strengthening
new fields of study related to the market. Improved teaching effectiveness would be achieved
through staff development and the introduction of new, modern teaching methods. The
following kinds of expenditures would be eligible for support: staff salaries; teaching
materials; local and external fellowships; local and foreign expert services; equipment; and
minor building upgrading.
3.11  The Undergraduate Program Innovation includes three kinds of sub-projects:
university degree programs; college diploma programs, and continuing education. Each is
described below.
(a)   University Programs, i.e., degree level. (Proposed Outlay: $13.9 million) The
objective of this subprogram would be to introduce or reinforce new, market-
related content in degree programs. Assistance would be provided for three
types of sub-projects:
(i)   the introduction or reinforcement of teaching programs in new fields of
study important for the market economy. This includes new programs
in such fields as business administration, small business management,
accountancy, applied social sciences, political science, social work and
public administration;



- 24 -
(ii)  creation of interdisciplinary programs, such as food science, natural
science and environmental engineering; engineering and management;
and
(iii)  new approaches to learning, such as computer-based instructional
systems; team teaching; development of self-study modules, and
development of teaching materials.
(b)   College Programs, i.e. diploma level. (Proposed Outlay: $7.0 million) The
objective of this subprogram is to help diversify the structure of higher
education by developing two-year diploma programs. These shorter cycle
programs would be more vocationally oriented than the four-year degree
programs. They would focus on fields of importance to the local economy,
such as tourism, small business management, etc.
(c)   Continuing Education Programs. (Proposed Outlay: $6.7 million). The reason
to support continuing education programs is to achieve greater labor market
flexibility. Under a market economy people do not train only once for a given
occupation. Instead, provision must be made for changes in occupation and
also for frequent upgrading within the profession as the technology changes
and job content is changed. Under the proposed assistance for continuing
education programs, people who already possess higher education
qualifications could undertake upgrading or retraining programs to respond to
new knowledge and skill requirements in the labor market. Graduates of the
socialist era would constitute a large target group for retraining. Courses
would typically be short (weeks or months) and could be pursued through part-
time studies, i.e. while employed. They would be financed through full cost
recovery. The types of programs to be assisted include establishment of up to
eight regional continuing education centers within universities and colleges.
Assistance could finance the development and delivery of specific intensive
training courses, distance education, computer-aided education.
Component III: Postgraduate Education and Research. (Proposed Outlay: $42.1 million)
3.12 The proposed education project would also provide financial support on a competitive
basis for the development of new postgraduate teaching programs and research programs, i.e.
after the first degree level. The basic purpose of the assistance is to relieve constraints on
improvement of quality and expansion of undergraduate enrollments in market-oriented fields
by developing the next generation of academic staff needed for building and sustaining
quality in undergraduate programs. The project would also develop a cadre of professionals
with advanced training in new fields demanded by a market economy. The project would
thus seek to expand the output of Romanians with postgraduate qualifications in priority



- 25 -
fields. Expansion of quality output, in turn, requires: (a) development of new post-graduate
teaching programs and materials; (b) better teaching staff at the post-graduate level; (c)
effective introduction of academic research as an integral part of teaching programs; and (d)
use of competition in allocating resources so as to support the most meritorious proposals.
3.13  The Postgraduate Education and Research Program includes three subprograms:
postgraduate program development; major research programs and multi-user research
centers, each of which is explained below.
3.14 Postgraduate Education Innovations (Proposed Outlay: $14.4 million). The objective
of the subprogram is to enhance the relevance of teaching content to recent developments in
the market economy by: (a) adding and reinforcing new fields of study; and (b) updating
traditional fields. Assistance for two general types of sub-projects is envisaged:
(a)   The introduction or reinforcement of teaching programs in fields of study
important for the market economy. This includes programs in such fields as
business administration, small business management, accountancy, applied
social sciences, political science, social work and public administration.
(b)   Creation of new interdisciplinary programs, such as food science, natural
science and environmental engineering; engineering and management.
3.15 Major Research Programs (Proposed Outlay: $13.7 million) Research is being re-
integrated into postgraduate programs so as to ensure adequate quality of the postgraduate
training. The proposed project, therefore, includes funds for the development of academic
research. The objectives of the subprogram are to: (a) strengthen Romanian capacity to
manage academic research programs; (b) develop and expand the volume of research
programs supporting training for Masters and PhD students; (c) develop networks of
academic research teams with laboratories and institutes; and (d) mobilize additional research
funds from outside sources. Examples of activities to be supported are funding for
postgraduate student research carried out under the direct supervision of research
supervisors, programs which involve co-supervision of postgraduate student research and
collaboration among academic staff, and between academic staff and postgraduate students of
other public research institutions.
3.16 Multi-User Research Centers. (Proposed Outlay: US$14.1 million) Romanian
universities have inadequate facilities for advanced training. Consequently, and in view of the
importance of academic research to quality improvement in postgraduate education, the
proposed project includes funds to augment research capabilities and thereby stimulate
additional academic research. Consistent with the policy of concentrating scarce postgraduate
resources in a few institutions, the project would select, competitively, a limited number of
institutions in which to create regional centers of excellence with advanced research facilities.



- 26 -
These facilities would be widely available to graduate students as well as postdoctoral
fellows. By concentrating in a few centers, the project would reduce or avoid institutional
duplication and allow scarce national resources to be employed efficiently. The proposed
project would provide support for the establishment or strengthening of research
facilities/services, such as Internet nodes, specialized libraries, the purchase of equipment
and minor renovation of facilities.
C.   Economic Analysis
1. Linkages to CAS
3.17  The proposed higher education project is consistent with the most recent Country
Assistance Strategy (April 5, 1994). The family of projects in human resources singled out
for priority consideration by the Bank included; (a) the reform of curricula, textbook
provision, and decentralized management and finance in basic education (Education Reform
Project, Loan 3724-RO, FY94, see MOP); (b) a project to help develop services for the
unemployed, support targeted programs of social assistance and help rationalize pension and
benefit systems (Employment and Social Protection Project, Loan 3489-RO, FY95, see
MOP); and (c) assistance to higher education. It was noted that discussions on higher
education reforms and strategy were underway with the Government and agreement would
lead to project identification. The project would support investments in human capital as
privatization proceeds and would support the emerging private education sector and aim at
enhancing training in management and other skills that would be needed in the emerging
private sector. The CAS states that a higher education project that increases the role of the
private sector and develops the new skills needed in the emerging private sector would be
especially beneficial with the emergence of a faster pace of private sector development.
During recent discussions (March 1996) Romanian authorities confirmed the importance they
place on reforming higher education.
2. Linkages to Economic and Sector Work (ESW)
3.18 The Bank started policy dialogue with the Government on issues of higher education
and research in 1990 as part of the initial sector work on human resources. That resulted in
the red cover report, Romania: Human Resources and the Transition to a Market Economv
(1992), one chapter of which analyzed higher education and research issues and was widely
discussed in Romania. The Government has already taken action on several
recommendations in that report, such as increasing cost recovery in public institutions and
developing accreditation procedures for public and private institutions. In early 1993 a series
of technical studies of key issues was launched with support of the Human Resource
Development Grant from the Government of Japan. This grant financed additional policy
studies on quality assurance, financial management, and human resources in higher education
and research. The findings of these studies fed into the Strategy Note on Reform of Higher



- 27 -
Education (World Bank, September 20, 1995). Among other topics, this Strategy calls for
further diversification of higher education programs; continued development of the
accreditation process; development of credit-hour systems for flexibility; new employment
status for academic staff; expanded post-graduate education; increased budget resources;
increased cost recovery; and improved budget allocation procedures. The proposed project
has been based upon the conclusions of this sector work. Moreover, the studies led to the
adoption by the Government of a comprehensive strategy for reform of higher education in
1994, which set the basis for the 1995 Education Law.
3. Policy Environment
3.19 Substantial policy changes have already been adopted by the Government during the
course of preparation of the project. The policy framework for reforms is virtually
complete, and is codified in a series of Governmental Decrees and the Education Law of
1995.
3.20  Private Education and Competition. Private education is well established and already
ranks ahead of most countries in the world with a third of total enrollments. The legal basis
for private education was established in 1991, and the Education Law (1995) gives private
higher education establishments a much firmer legal foundation, allowing them to receive
certain kinds of public funding, such as research grants, and providing them with the same
tax exemptions as public institutions. There are no impediments for private institutions to
operate freely, and they may set fee levels by themselves; however, they must be accredited
to be able to provide state-recognized degrees and certificates. In fact, 22 private higher
education institutions (out of 74 applicants) received provisional accreditation for 397
programs in 1995. Further, for both public and private accredited institutions, the proposed
Project would implement a new policy and enhance competition by allocating development
funds through competitive procedures.
3.21  Demand Responsiveness. The extensive system of private education provides a basis
for competition with the public sector. This competition is particularly evident in programs
opened for new market-related occupations, such as the University of Ecology which has six
applicants for each student admitted. Despite the rigidities in the existing budgetary transfer
mechanisms, the composition of enrollments by field of study underwent massive change in
the early 1990s, when enrollments in engineering dropped from 65 percent of the total to 31
percent, the share enrolled in economics (including management and business administration)
more than doubled and social sciences/ humanities tripled. Under the project, such shifts
would be facilitated through the introduction of norm-based formula funding in which funds
would follow student enrollment by fields. This method of financial allocations would also
help to even out over- and under-staffing of programs.



- 28 -
3.22 Cost Recovery in Public Education. The public institutions now have the autonomy
to charge appreciable user fees. Although basic tuition is free by Constitutional right,
supplementary fees can be charged and these are expected to reach one third of all
expenditures by the year 2000 from the present level of 23 percent.
3.23 Autonomy of Higher Education Institutions. Higher education institutions were given
considerable autonomy in academic affairs, early on in the transition, through the end of
1991. Thereafter, the authority of higher education institutions has been progressively
increased through ownership of facilities; freedom to keep additional resources earned off-
budget; and the freedom to spend budgets independently.
4. Analysis of Alternatives
3.24 Five alternative project designs were considered. The first alternative was no Bank-
supported project at all; the second was to concentrate exclusively on expanding private
education; a third was to invest only in market-oriented fields of study; the fourth was to
invest only in postgraduate studies and research; the fifth was to finance only foreign training
for postgraduate studies and research.
3.25  Project Not Financed. Without the project the Govermnent would proceed with its
reforms of higher education as best as it could. As stated above, the regulatory and enabling
framework is already in place, so the refonns could take place. The EU project for
institutional development has already been approved and could be implemented without a
Bank loan. Normative funding of recurrent expenditures could also be introduced, although
it might be diluted without the force of an international lending agency behind it. The main
difficulty without the project would be a major constraint in terms of investment funds.
System innovation through new teaching programs, development of graduate education and
strengthening of academic research capacity would be compromised. Institutional capacity
building, both for the system and specific higher education institutions, would be curtailed by
the lack of opportunity to gain experience in allocation of development funds according to
more rational criteria. The proposed benefits would not be realized, and two of the three
principal issues facing the system -- lack of development financing to make up for years of
neglect, and shortage of qualified teaching staff in private education -- would remain largely
unsolved.
3.26 Concentration on Expanding Private Education. Consideration was given to focusing
exclusively on incentives for strengthening and expanding private education. This alternative
was attractive, given the substantial recent development of private education and its important
future role in containing public expenditures on higher education. However, it was
concluded that this approach was too narrow for three reasons: First, the major constraint on
expansion of quality private higher education in the medium to long term is shortage of
qualified academic staff, especially in the high demand fields of applied social sciences,



- 29 -
business and finance. Selected public postgraduate education institutions are the best
equipped and best placed to be the principal supplier of such qualified staff. Second,
exclusive concentration on private education would neglect the rehabilitation and reform
needs of public universities, which still account for about two thirds of enrollments and are
expected to continue to enroll the majority of students in the future. Third, there could be
equity problems, since only relatively well-off families could afford private university tuition.
3.27 Invest in Market-Oriented Fields Only. This alternative would be attractive in that it
targets the fields in highest demand at present, and in which the resources are most strained.
However, enrollment in these fields is now stabilizing. The main constraint is to renew and
develop the professorate in these fields. Assistance to some departments and not others takes
an insular approach to reform. The needed reforms (e.g., more development financing,
better budgetary allocation mechanisms, improved institutional management) apply to the
system as a whole and cannot easily be treated in isolation. Moreover, innovation is needed
in consolidation of programs and in creating new interdisciplinary programs. These cannot
easily be anticipated in advance, and a narrower approach could well exclude many
worthwhile initiatives.
3.28  Invest in Postgraduate Education Only. This alternative has the merit of focusing on
the area with the greatest relative need for development, It is virtually new to Romanian
higher education since 1990. (Previously doctoral studies and academic research were
conducted in various relatively small and fragmented departmental research institutes.) It
would also address squarely the principal constraint on sustained expansion and improvement
of private higher education, namely, increasing the supply of qualified teaching staff.
However, this alternative suffers from many of the weaknesses of the previous alternative. It
neglects the legitimate requirements of undergraduate education for rehabilitation and new
programs; and it takes a partial approach whereas the key policy reforms should be system-
wide.
3.29 Finance of Needed Postgraduate Studies Abroad. Rather than build Romanian
capacity, which is clearly a long-term process, one alternative would be to finance the
needed postgraduate studies exclusively abroad. The advantages would be speed, and in
some instances, lower cost -- particularly where the alternative is to have to invest in
equipment and infrastructure for Romanian institutions. Foreign training is a valuable means
for acquiring academic qualifications at the advanced level, however, it cannot substitute for
Romanian capacity. Over the long run, reliance upon external training would cost more than
the establishment of postgraduate teaching and research capacity in Romania. Local training
can be more relevant in content, and would tend to minimize problems of brain drain
inherent in studies abroad.
3.30  The conclusion from these considerations is that a broad sector investment strategy is
needed that takes into account the interrelations of key parts of the system.



- 30 -
5. Cost-benefits/Cost-effectiveness
3.31  With respect to assessing benefits, the usual methodology entails using earnings
differentials according to levels of education as a proxy for the marginal productivity of more
educated workers relative to less educated workers. Although this assumption is not likely to
hold in Romania, examining detailed earnings data for university and secondary school
graduates from a 1994 household survey can still be useful. Based upon econometric
analysis of this survey data (regressions controlling for education, experience and industrial
sector), university graduates (4 years beyond secondary) earn on average 36 percent more
than secondary graduates (see Annex 4 for more details on the survey and the econometric
analysis). Ideally, it would be more useful to focus on workers in the private sector, but the
1994 data, however, does not show any significant difference in private and public sector pay
for university graduates. This is not surprising given the gradualist approach taken by
Romania to reducing the weight of the public sector in economic activity. Wage differentials
have not widened as much in Romania as in other transition economies that have moved
more rapidly with privatization and liberalization of their markets. A comparative study of
earnings among CEE economies notes that the premium to higher education has increased to
OECD levels in the "fast track" countries, in contrast to the gradualist countries like
Romania". A recent informal study (February 1996) of the labor market in Bucharest
indicates that demand is strong for graduates of higher education, especially in business and
computer related fields. As a result of the FESAL and the recent agreement with the IMF,
the pace of Romania's economic reforms is expected to accelerate and wage differentials by
education level and across fields of study can be expected to increase as in the other CEE
countries when their reforms accelerated.
3.32 With respect to costs, unit costs in Romanian public higher education are about 40
percent of GNP per capita, a very low figure that reflects insufficient funding of higher
education. Given the backlog of investment needs accumulated over the past decade and the
need for modernization of equipment and programs, unit costs are likely to rise to about 50
percent of GNP per capita during the period of the project. However, cost-effectiveness
(achieving objectives at least cost) is a key feature of the project design. Substantial cost
savings will be realized through the shortening by one year of the duration of many
programs, such as engineering, and increasing enrollment share in the shorter college level
courses. The formula funding approach based upon student demand that is the new basis for
financing core budgets of public institutions will contribute to cost effective operations. In
addition, the competitive approach to financing program development and research in the
universities (accredited private and public) will require institutions to analyze costs carefully
in relation to objectives.
" See Jan Rutkowski, "Changes in the Wage Structure During the Economic Transition in Central and
Eastern Europe (1995). This study was prepared as part of the Social Challenges of Transition Project in the
EC1/2HR division.



- 31 -
3.33 Costs and earnings data can be used to estimate the private and social rates of return
to public higher education."/2 The private rate of return, which takes into account private
benefits and costs, can be estimated from the regression coefficient for university relative to
secondary education, on the simplifying assumption that the only private costs incurred are
the earnings foregone by attending university full time. The private rate of return by this
approach is about 9 percent (see Annex 4 for a description of the methodology). The social
rate of return, which must also include the public costs of providing higher education, can be
estimated by calculating the internal rate of return to the cost-benefits stream associated with
higher education. The social rate of return estimated by this approach is about 7.5 percent.
Since it is expected that wage differentiation has much further to go in Romania, these
estimates, both private and social, should be regarded as a lower bound -- which is about as
much precision as the existing data would allow. To improve cost-benefit estimates so that
policy makers in the future will have better information, the project would support
monitoring of costs and benefits as the labor market continues to develop.
3.34   Two points should be noted concerning the above rate of return estimates. First, the
social rate of return of 7.5 percent is not the expected rate of return to the project, but is
more a measure of the low relevance of the current higher education system to labor market
needs and the incomplete adjustment of the labor market in terms of wage differentiation by
levels of education. Second, the project is intended to increase the rate of return to higher
education by producing graduates with more relevant knowledge and skills for the market
economy.
3.35   Non-market benefits (external effects not captured in the wage differentials) from
higher education and research, although much debated in the economics literature, are likely
to be present in the context of a transition economy like Romania. New ideas and attitudes
will be crucial to sustaining the economic reforms, and higher education and research that
links Romanian firms and professionals to best practices in international markets would have
a higher marginal impact than similar investments in established market economies. This is
especially so given the previous isolation of managers of Romanian firms and researchers in
Romanian commercial and academic institutions. These external effects at the margin would
add to the social rate of return of the project investments resulting in a social rate of return
likely to exceed the 10 percent benchmark often used for returns to physical capital.
2 See G. Psacharopoulos, "The Profitability of Investments in Education: Concepts and Methods",
Working Paper 63, World Bank (1995) for a succinct discussion of methods of estimating rates of return to
education. Annex 4 presents the details of the calculations for estimating the private and social rates of return
to higher education in Romania.



- 32 -
6. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
3.36 The Government's reform program stresses continued high rates of cost recovery.
Private education is to be encouraged (through access under the Project to competitions for
development resources) and is expected to accommodate most of the future increases in
higher education enrollments. In addition, the Government program continues to stress cost
recovery in public institutions through collection of a variety of non-tuition fees, which are
expected to cover 30 percent of total costs in public institutions by the end of the decade.
3.37  The project would have a clear fiscal impact, but steps are proposed to ensure this
fiscal impact is of manageable proportions. By making up for years of neglect in
development financing and financing program initiatives, the project would require increased
recurrent expenditures in future years. These increases would apply mainly to continuation
of new programs and maintenance of equipment. To the extent that these new programs
replace existing teaching programs, the fiscal impact would be neutral. However, some
increases are inevitable and cannot, at this stage, be quantified. The Romanian authorities
are clearly aware of the prospect for increases. Incremental recurrent costs of project
investments are to be sustained by a continuation of efficiency savings in the use of operating
grants and/or private financing. Institutions must present a plan for financing their costs
when presenting proposals. Funding for any recurrent costs (e.g., employment of
technicians, maintenance, consumables) would be provided on a declining basis. For this
reason, the HEFC will review all new program proposals for their financial sustainability
within likely budget levels. This explicit review for financial sustainability is expected to
avoid unanticipated consequences, and financial problems for sustaining program innovations.
7. Public/Private Justification
3.38  One of the fundamental objectives of the project is to eliminate the teacher supply
constraints on expansion of private higher education. Another is to improve the quality of
higher education, through equal competitive access for accredited private institutions to the
development and innovation funds provided by the project. In these ways the project would
contribute to strengthening private higher education as an alternative to the traditionally
strong public higher education in Romania. The project also would contribute to
strengthening and quality improvement in public education, such that a competitive balance
can be reached by the end of the decade.
8. Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework
3.39 The regulatory framework is satisfactory given passage of the Education Law in 1995
and subsequent issuance of implementing decrees. The key intermediary institutions have
also been established, including the National Council on Accreditation and Academic
Evaluation (1994), National Higher Education Financing Council (1995) and National



- 33 -
University Research Council (1995). As new organizations, they lack full experience, but
the Government has increased the staffing of these organizations in anticipation of the
workload implied by the project, and the EU technical assistance is directed at further
capacity building. This assistance would also be directed at the autonomous higher education
institutions.
9. Poverty Analysis
3.40   The project is not directly aimed at assisting poorer segments of society as such, but
is aimed more at raising economic productivity and promoting economic growth, which
would contribute to poverty reduction. However, the Bank is also financing several social
sector projects in Romania that assist the poor. These are: the Employment and Social
Protection Project (FY95) that assists the unemployed and families in poverty, the Education
Reform Project (FY94) that supports maintaining and modernizing basic education (primary
and secondary), and the Health Rehabilitation Project (FY92) that focuses on improving
primary health care. According to the recent poverty assessment for Romania (April 1996),
the basic levels of education show fairly equal access for the poor, but higher education
shows inequality of access. This project would help compensate for the negative impact of
cost-recovery in higher education on poor families by ensuring: (a) that needy but able
students receive increased support in public HEIs, and (b) providing incentives for private
HEIs to give scholarsips to needy but able students. These need-based scholarships coupled
with the expansion of higher education opportunities, will improve the access of the poor to
higher education.
10. Environmental Analysis
3.41   This is a Category C project, having no direct environmental implications. Indirectly,
environmental studies have proved to be a growth area in the past few years. The project
would provide initiatives for opening new interdepartmental programs combining
environmental studies with other fields. Graduates of these courses, together with research
carried out by universities, are expected to make a positive contribution to environmental
work.
11. Rationale for Bank Support
3.42 In sum, investments in higher education and research can make a significant
contribution to Romanian economic growth."3 Romania has already achieved near universal
3  The economic rationale for investments in education, including higher education and research, is well
documented in studies of the sources of economic growth and the contributions of human capital. With respect
to Bank policy concerning the application of this economic rationale to specific country circumstances, see
Hieher Education: The Lessons of Experience (World Bank, 1994) and the sections on higher education in the



- 34 -
enrollment in basic education, where typically the economic returns are highest, and is
ensuring that this achievement is maintained during the transition period. Having protected
the basic levels of education, public support for higher education and research is warranted to
the extent that these have characteristics of public goods. To the extent these are private
goods, cost recovery and private funding is warranted. Both the public and private
investments in higher education, which this project would stimulate, can be expected to yield
significant returns since, with growing wage differentials, a reformed higher education
system would provide the managers, technical professionals, entrepreneurs and overall
societal leadership with the new knowledge, skills and attitudes needed to sustain the
transition to a market economy.
3.43   The proposed project represents a sound investment in a domain in which the Bank
possesses both the requisite sector and country knowledge as well as extensive lending
experience in other regions. The project is to be undertaken in the framework of a reform
strategy that enhances both the internal and external efficiency of higher education. Bank
support for the financing and implementation of the project is justified for a number of
reasons. First, Bank financing is appropriate given the need for increased public outlays,
current scarcity of both foreign exchange and domestic savings, and the medium- to long-
term nature of the benefits of the project. Second, Bank participation would also serve as a
catalyst to attract cofinancing for the project. Third, given the mutually reinforcing linkages
between higher and basic education, this project would complement previous intervention in
the education sector and have a positive impact on basic education.
Bank's recent education policy paper, Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Sector Review
(1995). Applying these principles to the Romanian situation provides strong justification for both private and
public investments in higher education and research as well as Bank support of these investments.






- 35 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations
4.1   The Bank has acquired important experience in the implementation of human
resources projects in Romania. The first Bank assisted human resources project was the on-
going Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO for US$150 million, FY92) that
supported the priority needs of a health sector that was in serious crisis. The second Bank
supported human resources project is the Education Reform Project (Loan 3724-RO for
US$50 million, FY94) that focuses on the restructuring of basic education to make it more
appropriate for a market economy. The third Bank supported project is the recently
approved Employment and Social Protection Project (Loan 3489-RO for US$55.4 million,
FY95), which addresses, inter alia, training needs of the labor force and social protection.
Experience with these projects has shown that the weak implementation capacity of the
Government agencies must be addressed in the initial project design.
4.2   Other lessons from projects elsewhere pertain to the use of "innovation funds" in
higher education, and "peer review" to select grant proposals. The Hungary Human
Resources project (Ln. 3313 FY91) provided discretionary investment funding to individual
institutions through three competitive rounds. That project launched a large number of new
educational programs, including specific curricula and changed teaching methods. However,
much of funding was fragmented and lost in the morass of an unreformed higher education
system. In addition, despite well crafted objectives and criteria and a basically sound
evaluation system, allocation of funds was subject to political influence and the continued
spreading of funds equally across institutions, resulting in small funding amounts and limited
impact. An additional problem in this and similar projects was insufficient protection for
preserving the integrity of the peer review process for evaluating funding proposals.
Guidelines relating to conflict of interest for instance, were not well developed or monitored,
nor were evaluation procedures designed to discourage wholesale reallocation of funding
recommendations, with the result that peer review had too little impact on decision making.
These issues have been addressed in the design of the procedures to allocate funding in the
present project which, unlike those mentioned above, will apply to all public money to higher
education rather than just to project funding. Moreover, the programs supported by the
project will be subject to rigorous ex ante review to insure adherence to agreed criteria and
procedures.
4.3   More generally, the experience of the Bank with investment funds and sector
investment lending projects (SECIL) indicates the following lessons:
(a)   Experience with training funds points to the importance of: (i) careful phasing
to match the pace and scale of the project to management capabilities; (ii)



- 36 -
building ownership and commitment through beneficiary participation in the
design of the project; (iii) flexibility, particularly in countries with unstable
political and economic conditions, so as to be able to respond to changes at the
macro level and to locally diverse needs; and (iv) the role of consumers and
users of skills in deciding on program priorities;
(b)   Lessons from social investment funds show: (i) their potential to establish
partnerships between central government, private interests and local authorities
and build strong coalitions in support of reform; (ii) the importance of having
a clear understanding of the responsibilities of the various partners; (iii) the
need for transparent management and isolation from partisan politics; (iv) the
potential to build local capacity and distribute benefits widely through training
and assistance in the formulation of small-scale projects; and (v) the general
tendency to underestimate procurement and disbursement issues during
preparation.
(c)   Experience with sector investment projects in education suggests that
implementation can be enhanced by a period of trial testing of the appraisal
mechanism before loan approval. All the project instruments mentioned above
stress the importance of frequent and close supervision for these kinds of
projects.
4.4   The proposed project has incorporated these lessons in project design. The bodies
which will assist in implementing the project have been in operation since 1995 or earlier.
The National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation is the oldest and most
experienced. Its expert panels will be involved in making recommendations to the National
Higher Education Financing Council and the allocation of funds for new or restructured
undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The National University Research Council, as
noted above, has already successfully organized two pilot grant competitions (1995 and
1996). These have been invaluable in testing and refining procedures. The National Higher
Education Financing Council is the newest and least experienced of the implementing bodies.
So far, its work has focussed on designing the fornula funding and student support schemes.
The council's staffing is being strengthened through a twinning relationship which has been
established with the British Higher Education Funding Council to provide technical
assistance. The National University Research Council has established similar twining
relationships with other research funding bodies in Europe. Extraordinary efforts were made
in project development to widen the consensus and involve a broad range of Romanian
authorities in and out of government. Thus, already during project development, an
important dialogue had been created between public and private agencies over sectoral issues
and policy. The result has been a remarkable degree of consensus and widespread
commitment to the objectives and means of the project.



- 37 -
B.    The Sector Investment Approach
4.5   The project design as a sector investment project stresses agreement on the policy
framework in general and in program content, along with delegation of the selection of
specific investments (sub-projects) to intermediary institutions. Therefore, no specific sub-
project investments have been pre-identified, and no quotas have been fixed by field of study.
Instead, emphasis has been placed on the organizational framework, procedures and criteria
for selection of specific investments. There are two reasons for this approach. First, the
project seeks to maximize its impact on the functions of the newly-created intermediary
institutions and higher education institutions that recently have been given considerable
autonomy. An explicit objective of the project is to assist in capacity building by
transferring project procedures and criteria to the normal functions of these institutions.
Second, the project -- in contrast with previous experience in the command economy -- takes
a "bottom-up" approach, in which the teachers, researchers and administrators of higher
education institutions can propose innovations in the programs they offer. This approach
relies on the initiative of the main providers and has proved instrumental in other contexts in
stimulating thinking, development of alternative approaches and reform on a wide scale.
4.6   Types of Sub-projects. Resources for developing higher education teaching and
research programs under Components II and III would be awarded in the form of grants to
eligible higher education institutions following a series of annual competitions. Grant awards
would be of two types for different kinds of sub-projects:
(a)   Pilot proiects, or initial stages of programs. These would usually be less than
one year in duration, and range in cost from $5,000 to $25,000. These could
cover the development of specific new teaching courses, teaching materials or
innovations in curricula. They could also be intended as the first phase of
more comprehensive sub-projects, i.e., based on their success, they could be
expanded.
(b)   Sub-projects, ranging in cost from $25,000 to $500,000. These sub-projects
would be typically preceded by pilot projects during which the success of the
approach would be demonstrated; approval of comprehensive sub-projects
would be contingent on a successful seed project. They would be
comprehensive in scope and pursue essential changes in one field of higher
education at one or several higher education institutions. The duration would
be 2 to 3 years.



- 38 -
C.   Selection of Sub-project Grants (See Annex 5 and Project Implementation Plan for
details).
4.7   Organizations. Sub-project selection would be the responsibility of three key
organizations. The National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation would be
responsible for ensuring that proposals for new programs are consistent with the mission and
capacity of the applicant institution. The National Higher Education Financing Council
would be responsible for evaluating the proposals for undergraduate teaching programs and
ranking them in terms of priorities. The National University Research Council would
evaluate and rank post graduate teaching and research proposals. The Minister of Education
would make the final awards based on the recommendations of the Councils.
4.8   The three key organizations would have full-time staff necessary to carry out the
evaluation of the proposed programs, as follows:
Table 4.1: Staffing of Intermediary Organizations
(Number of staff)
[Organization                   | Managers   Professional   Support
National Accreditation Council     1          3             10
Higher Educ Financing Council      1          6              5
University Research Council        1          12             5
4.9   During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will maintain the
Higher Education Councils with a sufficient number of qualified staff, adequate
facilities, and authority satisfactory to the Bank.
4.10 Selection Procedures. Sub-projects submitted for funding would have to pass two
stages of review before final award of grant funds, namely (a) internal evaluation at the level
of the applying institution; and (b) evaluation at the level of the Higher Education Councils,
as described below.
4.11 Internal Evaluation by the Higher Education Institution. The first stage of evaluation
is within the higher education institution itself. The Board/Senate of the higher education
institution designates an institutional review committee and an institutional ethical review
committee to screen applications. The committees are comprised of members of the



- 39 -
institution's academic staff drawn from a cross-section of disciplines, who are known and
respected for their integrity and scholarship. The higher education institution also selects a
chief administrative officer to organize and supervise all aspects of the program at the
institution, including publicizing information and application forms about the availability and
conditions for grant funding. The institutional review committee evaluates and ranks all
applications according to the agreed criteria, organizes them by academic area corresponding
to those of the Higher Education Councils, and submits a report explaining each decision and
the ranking to the chief administrative officer. The ethical review committee screens all
applications involving experiments with human or animal subjects, biohazards or use of
hazardous material, for conformity with applicable ethical guidelines. The Rector, or
authorized representative, certifies that the review committees have observed the authorized
procedures for evaluating proposals, and submits recommended proposals to the Higher
Education Councils ranked in priority order for the higher education institution.
4.12 Review by Higher Education Councils. The National Council on Accreditation and
Academic Evaluation would first review proposals and assess whether the proposed teaching
or research program fits within the approved mission and institutional development plan of
the applicant institution. Proposals on teaching programs would then be evaluated by the
National Higher Education Financing Council. The National Higher Education Financing
Council has established two review committees -- Programs Committee and Capital
Development Committee. The Programs Committee would appoint up to three external
assessors (referees) to evaluate proposals for program content. Applications that involve
capital investment would also be reviewed by the Capital Development Committee.
Assessors would review the proposals according to a standard rating form and instructions on
its use (models of these documents were reviewed at appraisal, and are annexed to the
Project Implementation Plan). Committee members in various disciplinary panels who have
been assigned to review applications would receive the assessors' reports and prepare
summaries as well as their own assessments. They would present these reports to the full
Committee which would make a consolidated recommendation to the National Higher
Education Financing Council.
4.13  Proposals for research grants and postgraduate teaching programs would be evaluated
by the National University Research Council; (a) Proposals to establish or expand
postgraduate programs would be screened by the National University Research Council for
adherence to national standards and policies established by the Councils for Accreditation and
Credentials. They would then be assessed by one of the seven disciplinary panels"4 of the
National University Research Council on the basis of academic merit. Proposals
recommended for funding would be ranked and submitted to the National Higher Education
Financing Council for an evaluation of institutional sustainability, cost effectiveness and
14 Mathematics; physical sciences; social sciences and humanities; life and earth sciences; engineering;
medicine; and agricultural sciences.



- 40 -
national priority; (b) Proposals to support research would be selected by the National
University Research Council through its regular research competitions without recourse to the
National Higher Education Financing Council for final recommendations.
4.14  Criteria for Sub-project Selection. Requests/proposals for grant funds to support the
development of higher education programs and research would be evaluated in accordance
with the following criteria, as summarized below. (Details are provided in the Project
Implementation Plan.)
4.15  Eligibility Criteria. All public and private Romanian higher education institutions,
which have been duly accredited by the National Council on Accreditation and Academic
Evaluation to award degrees, diplomas and certificates are eligible to submit proposals and
applications for grant financing. As of May 1996, 640 undergraduate teaching programs
covering ten broad fields of study (including engineering, medicine, economics, law,
sciences, etc.) offered in 48 public and 22 private higher education institutions have received
this accreditation. Higher education institutions, to be eligible, must have medium- to long-
term institutional development plans showing the place of the intended teaching innovation or
research program in the overall institutional framework. Proposals may be initiated by an
academic staff member, institutional unit, department or faculty of an accredited higher
education institution. Proposals for academic research grants may also come from individuals
or research teams in accredited higher education institutions, or those affiliated to institutes
of the Romanian Academy or other public research institutions engaged in training-related
collaborative research with staff or students in higher education institutions.
4.16 Content of Applications. Applications for grant funding would include information on
the following subjects: background and justification (i.e., problems to be addressed and
solved); objectives; strategy or approach; means of action; institutional and staffing
arrangements, including a statement of the unit's academic and administrative capacity to
undertake the activity; curriculum vitae of the principal academic staff involved; statement of
the institution's academic reform strategy identifying program priorities; comparison of the
activity to similar programs (completed or in progress); available instructional facilities,
library holdings and research equipment; implementation plan, including critical benchmarks
and outputs expected; costing and financing plan, including multi-year budget; projection of
future financial requirements as a result of the grant, e.g., staffing and facilities
requirements; standards, such as entry and graduation requirements; identification of specific
outputs, benefits and risks; special conditions. These sections would be supported by
quantitative surveys of employment and student demand; and projected wages of graduates.
4.17 Evaluation Criteria. Proposals would generally be evaluated according to a
framework of four criteria:



- 41 -
(a)    Relevance or significance: This refers to responsiveness to national priorities
of the higher education reform; responsiveness of program curricula to the
labor market, as reflected in employment opportunities and potential earnings;
relevance to the Higher Education Council's long term development priorities;
support for important regional development requirements; articulation with the
institutional development plan; and complementarity with programs at other
higher education institutions;
(b)   Effectiveness: This refers to soundness of project design and means of
achieving objectives; originality and expected contribution; innovativeness of
proposed teaching methods; technical adequacy of the curricula and
comparability to practices of leading advanced countries; collaboration among
institutions; validity of testing and examination procedures;
(c)    Feasibility: This refers to viability of implementing the program as proposed;
availability and capability of staff and other human resources to carry out the
proposed activities; institutional capacity to administer the grant; support from
other organizations; sufficiency of available financial resources; sustainability
of recurrent expenditures by the host/applicant higher education institution;
realistic implementation timetable;
(d)   Efficiency: This refers to reasonable cost assumptions and aggregate budget
amounts by category; reasonableness of unit (i.e., per student) costs, and costs
per unit of output; relationship of budget to National Higher Education
Financing Council cost norms; cost savings owing to co-financing.
4.18  Priorities Priority would be given to grant proposals in market-oriented fields such as
economics, management and business administration, social sciences and law, and
interdisciplinary fields. Priority would be given to program and research proposals which (a)
are highly ranked by the sponsoring higher education institution in its long term academic
and budgetary plans and priorities; (b) provide evidence of strong student demand, likely
employment opportunities and earnings; (c) document the higher education institution's
capacity to offer the proposed program through piloting of program offerings, including the
availability of co-financing; and (d) collaborate with other institutions, and are jointly
administered by these institutions and which involve sharing instructional facilities and
resources. Programs arising from collaboration with foreign institutions will also receive
priority for funding.
4.19  Approval Criteria There are no pre-set quotas for distribution of funds by field of
study; neither is there a limit placed on any individual field. Consideration was given to the
establishment of such quotas and ceilings. However, this was abandoned for the following
reasons: (a) The quality of grant proposals cannot be known in advance. Selection of



- 42 -
quality proposals is of utmost importance. In cases where sufficient proposals of acceptable
quality are not received, establishment of pre-set quotas or ceilings could lead the Councils
into compromising their standards and accepting low quality proposals; or neglecting high
quality proposals in other areas; (b) the proposed sector investment program is intended to
cover all areas of higher education, market-oriented as well as traditional. Structural changes
are needed in traditional fields such as engineering to bring the content up-to-date with
modern requirements, to establish credit systems, and to build interdisciplinary programs.
Artificial ceilings could work against this objective. Instead, the Councils would establish in
advance of competitions a set of "indicative allocations" by field of study based on the
priorities assigned to market-oriented fields and social sciences. The Councils would consult
with the Bank about these tentative allocations and proposed final allocations based on
appraised proposals where there was significant variation from the indicative allocations.
Finally, to ensure overall that the less mature disciplines which require the most
strengthening in the new environment of a market oriented economy do not get crowded out
by the claims of the most established and developed ones, at least one half of the resources in
Components II and III would be allocated to sub-projects in market oriented and new
interdisciplinary fields (see Annex 5 on Criteria and Procedures).
4.20 During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will follow
procedures and criteria for selection and award of grant proposals acceptable to the
Bank.
4.21 During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would consult with
the Bank about: (a) indicative allocations by field of study in higher education before
each annual review of grant proposals, and (b) subsequent proposed allocations by field
of study that deviate by more than 20 percent from these indicative allocations.
4.22 As with all financial decisions in higher education, the Minister of Education decides
on the final allocations. Regulations of the National Higher Education Financing Council
provide that, in the event that the Minister rejects its advice on the distribution of the public
budget for higher education, a justification must be offered in writing with a request to the
National Higher Education Financing Council for re-consideration of its recommendation.
Similarly, the regulations of the National University Research Council require the Minister to
protect the integrity of the review process, abstain from intervening in particular funding
decisions and to offer justification in writing for rejecting any recommendation on program
allocations. These provisions would apply to the proposed grant awards under the Project.



- 43 -
D.    Implementation of Sub-project Grants
1. Organization and Staffing
4.23 The Government has established: (a) the Higher Education Reform Program
Implementation Unit; 15 and (b) the Higher Education Councils to manage the sector
program. The roles of these institutions in implementation are described in the following
paragraphs:
4.24 Higher Education Reform Program Implementation Unit. The main responsibility of
this entity is to guide implementation of the higher education reform strategy as well as to
coordinate donor support. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education is President
of the Unit. Members include: (a) the presidents and vice presidents of the Higher Education
Councils (National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation, National Council for
Attestation of Academic Titles and Degrees, National Higher Education Financing Council,
and National University Research Council); (b) the three directors general of the Ministry of
Education (for Higher Education, Pre-university Education, and Budgeting and Accounting);
and (c) a representative from the European Center for Higher Education. The Unit is served
by a permanent Secretariat with an Executive Secretary assisted by specialized and
administrative staff. The Executive Secretary is designated as the chief administrative officer
of the Unit, with overall day-to-day responsibility for coordinating the activities of the
Higher Education Councils, the coordination of donor funds and technical assistance, and
liaising with the Ministry of Education, institutions and donors involved in the program.
4.25 To monitor the implementation of the Bank-financed elements (Components II and III)
of the sector program a Project Coordination Unit has been organized within the Department
of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education (para 3.11 (d)). The Project Coordination
Unit will: (a) provide advice on procurement to recipient institutions; (b) facilitate
disbursement of Bank Loan and counterpart funds; (c) monitor project outcomes and
supervise reporting, accounting and auditing; and (d) liaise with other departments of the
Ministry of Education, other Romanian institutions, the Bank and other donors. The
Executive Secretary of the Higher Education Reform Program Implementation Unit will be
the Director of the Project Coordination Unit. He will also be assisted by a deputy to
monitor the implementation of the European Union financed elements of the project
(Component I). The staff of the Project Coordination Unit will comprise four professional
and support staff including a procurement specialist with training in disbursement, a
disbursement specialist qualified to assist in project procurement, and a secretary/translator to
facilitate periodic reporting to relevant authorities and institutions including the Bank. The
15    This Unit is the former Consultative Group for Higher Education, Research and Technology
which was established by Ministerial Order no. 10150 of June 1995, to prepare the higher
education reform program.



- 44 -
Director and Procurement Officer of the PCU have been appointed. As necessary,
consultants and other staff/specialists will be engaged on a part-time basis to carry out
specific tasks (e.g., independent audits of project expenditure). The TOR of the PCU are
included in the PIP.
4.26 During Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will maintain the
PCU with a sufficient number of qualified staff, adequate facilities, and authority
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.27 Higher Education Councils. The responsibilities of the Higher Education Councils in
the sector program are to propose and apply national standards relating to the structure,
quality and equivalence of academic programs, as well as to advise the Government on the
allocation of funds for training and research activities. Within this framework, the Councils
have responsibility for the implementation of the sector project which covers the entire
competitive process of awarding grants for the development of higher education programs
and research -- from establishing the objectives, priorities, and terms and conditions of the
competitions for grants through the evaluation of the outcomes of completed sub-projects.
The Higher Education Councils will ensure that sub-projects are implemented in accordance
with the principles embodied in the grant agreements with recipient institutions.
4.28 Specifically: (a) the National Higher Education Financing Council will have overall
responsibility for the implementation of Undergraduate Innovation Programs (Component II);
(b) the National University Research Council will have implementation responsibility for
Postgraduate Programs and Research (Component III). Because graduate programs combine
teaching and research activities, the National University Research Council will implement
Component III with the collaboration of the National Higher Education Financing Council;
and (c) the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation and National Council
for Attestation of Academic Titles and Degrees will collaborate with the Higher Education
Financing and the National University Research Councils in implementing (a) and (b). The
Research Council makes decisions on the academic merits of postgraduate and research
proposals, and the Finance Council on their financial sustainability. The postgraduate
programs are evaluated by the Councils for Accreditation and for Degrees. The Higher
Education Financing and National University Research Councils will be assisted in their tasks
by their respective Secretariats and independent Auditing Units. The Council Secretariats
will coordinate with the Project Coordination Unit for monitoring progress on all facets of
project implementation, and with the Auditing Units, on aspects related to the expenditure
and accounting of project funds (Bank Loan and Government counterpart) with the Ministry
of Education Budget Directorate.
4.29  The key project implementation responsibilities of the Councils include:



- 45 -
(a)   the establishment of competition requirements, receipt and evaluation of sub-
project proposals and award of grant funds;
(b)   following each competition, at least annually, the review of sub-project
outcomes, and of programs in collaboration with the National Council on
Accreditation and Academic Evaluation. These annual reviews may include
periodic inspections of the institutions' project-related work (e.g., for the
Multi-user Center subcomponent, the National University Research Council
would commission studies to monitor the training and research impact of the
centers, including the volume of published research produced by staff and
postgraduate students using the facilities);
(c)   audit of expenditure of grant funds;
(d)   evaluation of the implementation performance of the project component; and
(e)   preparation of financial and policy recommendations relevant to the project
component.
2.   Implementation Schedule
4.30  The Government's overall investment program would take place over five years from
mid-1996 to end-2001. The proposed project covers commitments made during the first
three years of the investment program. The European Union funded program of
strengthening the systemic reform by supporting the Higher Education Councils (Component
I) would take place over two years from 1997 to 1998. Under Components II and III,
financed through the Bank loan, the first round of competitions would begin in late 1996 with
the announcements calling for proposals from the higher education institutions. Thereafter,
there would be three more rounds of competition in 1997,1998 and 1999. That would allow
for the proposals funded in the last round of competition in 1999 to be completed by 2001.
This is a feasible implementation schedule. Each year, the Bank and the Higher Education
Councils would review the results of the sub-project selection process and how sub-projects
are being implemented at the institutional level. The project implementation schedule is
summarized in Chart 4.1 below and shown in detail in the Project Implementation Plan.



PROJECT WMOLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Reaponsbl             YerO                   Yewr I                    Yw 2                      Yer 3                     You 4                     Yew 6
DESCHPTIOn ol PROJECT ACTIVNrY                            hsnitulan or            1996                   1997                      1998                      1999                      2000                      2001
Unkt         A UJIJAISC'INIJ F   LI* JIJAISOlNOJIFUWAIMIJIJAISO 1J FUA M JJ A SO NODJ F MAMJ J A SON D JF    A M JJASONO
COLLEGE PROGRAnS:                                                                               Round I1
Prepar cornetition r* uijomat$                                                                        1       Round 2                Round 3                   Round 4
Review OccOeditation of NEI MEI ptograms                                    NCAAf
Prepare suloict popsl                                                    Ho Lktunarr. Dt
Evaluate /select subproject to   Isss                                     HEI,REVCo       _
Endoxse/outxnit proposals to Higher Education CoLunci                     tuc sett
Evaluate HEI woposalslrecommand awards                                   IEVALIPCICOC
Award agfnts to selected poposals                                         HEFC Btoad
P-pare inIal giant fund reteas. documents                                  HEFC SEC
Process/release grant payments                                            PCUIUOEE1I1)
Subp oect implementation periodi (only Rounds 1 & 4 shbwn) a/                  E
Monitor sbuprojecr performance                      IEFCfPc
Evaluate subproject outcomes                                             HEFC INCAAE
UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS:                                                                             Round 1
Prepare competition requiltements                                          HEFC                              Round 2                 Round 3                   Round 4
Review accreditation of HEI /HEI programs                                   NCAAE
Prepare subpojoect proposals                                             Htt oUrr/.,or
Evaluatle select subproject proposals                                     HE!t OEVCO
Endovel/submit poposals to Hiqher Education Council                       HEI Rto
Evaluate HEt pgoposals(recommend awards                                  EVALIPCICDC
Award ganls to selcted pompoals                                           HCFC W.,d
Prepa initial rant lfund ielease documents                                 HECE SEC
F`rocessftteea5e grant paymoos                                            rCuflJOt.OO
Subromecl implementation Period fonty Rounds 1 & 4 shown) al                  Etl
Monitor subp*oject perormance                                              HEFC PC
Evaluate subpro ect outcomes                                             tfC NCAAE
CONTINUING EDUCATIOM PROGRAMS
Prepare competition requirements                                           uEC PC-                     Round 1                   Round 2                       ORon  3
Review accreditation ot HEI /HEI programs                                   NCAAE
Prepare su.r oct p oposals                                               HEI tidrrlo__rI
Evaluate /select subpr*ect proposals                                      NEItSEVCOM
Endorse/submnit pr osals to Higher Educatiorr Councit                      HEt Sector
Evaluate HEI proposts/recommand awards                                   EVALPCICPC IO                   A  ME                                                                       Ii
Award rFantS to selected proposals                                        HEFC eb.ra-II-1--E
P,epare initial grant lund release documents                               HEFC SEC               -F _I:C
Process/release grant  yments                                             PCUSOE-W M                I  In
Subp oect vianperrentation period (only Rounds t & 3 shownl at              tHrIT
Monitor subproaect perlormance                                             HEFC PC
Evaluate subplotect outcomes                                             HFC RNCAAE
Noet:                                                                             Acronyms;
aI  Patterns Vrd lttning of subproject kmplemrentatlon                                  CAO Chief Adnririsrrefive Ottklew                        NCAAE Nathonal Councif on Accredit.ftion Nd Acadeink Evaluation
and performance monitoring, evaluatbon and rapori                                    CoC Capital Grrnts Convmirtee                          NCAATO NAftoana CruncI tar' the Attestvtion of Acadac Titles nd Degres
preparation activities under are repeated                                           EVAL Evaluatotrlreirees                                      PC P/ogram Conmmittefe
lfo the second and third rounds of competition.                                      FvC Council EvaA atioi'n 1Seacion Comnitee                reCu Project Coordination Unvt
HEmC H*ihe Education Financ    Council                 r&WvCoar HEt Rewvew Conmmittee
ie Higher education inst/tuton                            SEC SccretarIat to the Countci
U    Wrld Barth                                           twc URniviwty Resbrch Councit
MOEO0 AMtrylt ot Education   dgert Orkwtorate



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
DESCRIPTON of PROJECT ACTIVITY                          InatItmion or          1998                  1997                     1998                     1999                     20
andpare cormnpeita monitrimnts evlato  adsaot                                      O  CaIt  aNts -1-L tEeon2                     o nd    AA31   Nainl O,c Rod_1 tI AtesaIono  cdmcfte  n   er
pReiwacataroniacltion o HEId mHE prepamsd                            W-A           VALA EvauaoMI-1ee                                        PC Pr-ogam Cansn ITLe
EwalIsaothe /se awt sbajt prospoalston                                Hy  CunI-Ev*aton/Seon  onnuItePcfPsjcICwaIaio  Ii
Endofselsubfniit propoWs to Kigheatf Hr Edductioncateiong  ouCouncilNE!NeEiewCwncltte
P,ocesshelease grant                              rcu/WE aD       liI  a'ctin seiutonSe  Scitia t te  orw
Subp,owect impt   t~~~~,Z~1811a:isl Wtrk  askRoundswaIti, ResetcwnCmNEI
Mwilo, subpFoiect parlotmence                        Mc-PC           htstr o E,ceio  Buge Dkceef



- 48 -
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation
4.31  Indicators. (See Annex 6 for details)  Various types of data would be collected to
indicate progress. These indicators would provide a framework for systematic monitoring of
specific project investments and of the overall impact of implementation of the Government's
reform strategy.
(a)    Sector indicators would incorporate: (i) measures of the level and proportion
of public expenditure dedicated to higher education; (ii) the distribution of
public higher education expenditure between operating costs, capital
investments, and allocations for student support and welfare; (iii) the sources
and proportion of cost-recovery; (iv) participation rates, changes in the level
and distribution of higher education enrollment between public and private
institutions and for the different tiers of the higher education system; (v) the
internal efficiency of institutions and academic programs; (vi) variations in
student/staff ratios and unit costs; (vii) changes in the structure, requirements
and content of academic programs; and (viii) measures of qualitative outcomes
including changes in selectivity, pass rates, and employment of graduates.
(b)   Key performance indicators for sub-projects supporting postgraduate education
and academic research would include: (i) increased production of Masters and
doctoral graduates; (ii) expansion of domestic and foreign collaboration in
advanced scientific training and research activities; (iii) greater volume, co-
authorship, and international visibility of published research; (iv) increased
generation of competitive grant funding from domestic and from foreign
sources, especially from projects funded by multi-user equipment grants; and
(v) recruitment and retention of academic staff in higher education and other
scientific institutions whose studies have been supported by project grants and
fellowships.
(c)    Outcome indicators would comprise, for sub-projects supporting undergraduate
program innovations: (i) an increase in enrollments, retention and completion
rates; (ii) a reduction in unit costs and costs per graduate; (iii) sustainability
from institutional budgets and self-financing sources; and (iv) employment
obtained, initial earnings, or further education either in Romania or abroad.
4.32 Progress Reporting. The progress under individual grants for program development,
multi-user equipment and research would be monitored generally against benchmarks
established in the accepted proposals. Progress would be monitored through: (a) semestral
reports submitted by grantees and reviewed by the respective Councils; (b) quarterly financial
reports submitted by grantees; (c) annual peer reviews and/or site visits by reviewers



- 49 -
appointed by the Councils; and (d) a final report submitted by grantees including a self-
evaluation of accomplishments with respect to the original plan accepted.
(a)    Semestral Progress Report. The Council Secretariats in collaboration with the
Project Coordination Unit, will submit to the Bank consolidated semestral
reports on the status of project implementation covering all project
components, with an emphasis on: (i) current status of activities, development
objectives, loan covenants and emergent issues; (ii) deviations (and reasons), if
any, from the implementation plan and project targets; (iii) recommendations
for actions and forward planning; (iv) summary of the grant activities
including a list of grants awarded, expenditures, and other input and process
indicators as shown in Annex 6; and (v) an updated implementation plan for
the following year. An outline for routine progress reporting has also been
designed in such a way as to encourage regular monitoring of project activities
and availability of resources in advance of Bank supervision missions. These
semestral progress reports would be submitted to the Bank by March 31 and
September 30 of each project year.
(b)   Implementation Completion Report. The project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 2001. At the completion of the project, the Higher
Education Reform Program Implementation Unit, assisted by the Project
Coordination Unit and inputs from local specialists, will prepare an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the Closing
Date of the Loan. The ICR will summarize, inter alia: (i) program activities
in terms of input, process and outcome indicators as listed in Annex 6; (ii)
assessment of the Councils' effectiveness; (iii) sectoral overview of higher
education and university research; (iv) project financial status; and (v)
implementation issues, lessons learned, and recommendations.
4.    Bank Supervision and Review
4.33  One of the explicit objectives of the project is to strengthen the capability of the
Higher Education Councils in awarding development grants on the basis of agreed criteria
and procedures. The prior review requirements by the Bank are intended to test the selection
and award process rather than review the details of individual proposals. Consequently,
before grant awards are formalized by the Minister of Education, the relevant implementing
Council (National Higher Education Financing Council or National University Research
Council) through the Project Coordination Unit will forward the evaluation results (proposed
grant awards) to the Bank for its prior (ex ante) review. All competitions under programs
supported by the project would be subject to ex ante evaluation, which would normally be
carried out in the field during the final stages of the selection process (normally during May
of each project year). This would encompass review of all sub-projects, regardless of size,



- 50 -
after selection by the relevant Higher Education Council, but prior to endorsement by the
Minister and notification of awards. The evaluation would focus on observance of agreed
criteria and procedures during the selection process. Specifically, the Bank review would
aim to ensure adherence to:
(a)   eligibility criteria (e.g., have programs recommended for funding received
authorization in terms of accreditation? Were institutional development plans
submitted and reviewed?, etc.)
(b)   transparent project processing procedures (e.g., were guidelines for the
generation of applications and for project review followed?)
(c)   the integrity of the review process (e.g., does the recommended funding follow
the ranking of sub-projects by the review panels of experts?)
(d)   agreed priorities (e.g., do the recommended awards correspond to indicative
allocations of funds across broad fields? If not, do the explanations of
variance provide sufficient justification?)
(e)   adequacy of funding recommended versus that requested. Explanations will be
sought for significant discrepancies (i.e., 20 percent) between funding
recommendations and agreed norms.
4.34 During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will review each year
with the Bank a sample of about 100 grant applications and the overall process used for
grant awards recommended by the councils before the submission of the recommended
grant awards to the Minister of Education for final approval and will facilitate the Bank
review of the procedures and criteria followed in arriving at the recommendations.
4.35 Random checks on sub-projects would be made annually to ensure that they conform
to agreed criteria and Bank procurement and disbursement policies. A comprehensive
assessment of progress in achieving sectoral policy reform and project investment goals
would be undertaken each year as part of normal Bank supervision, identifying any
corrective actions to be undertaken. For that reason there is no need to provide for a mid-
term review.
4.36 Supervision will require more intensive Bank input than usual, owing in part to the
project's broad technical scope and the need for ex ante field reviews of proposed awards.
The basis for Bank supervision will be the project monitoring reports and indicators,
supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial resources.
Supervision staff will need to include, in addition to a specialist in higher education reform
and a project implementation specialist, periodic visits by specialists in higher education
management and financing. The Human Resources Sector Project Officer of the Bank
Resident Mission in Romania would undertake day-to-day interaction and follow-up with the
Romanian authorities and project entities, and would probably be assigned formal
responsibility for leadership of the Bank's task team after the project is underway.



- 51 -
V. COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
A.      Project Costs
5.1     Romania's higher education sector investment program  (1996 to 2000) provides for
capital funds to cover expenditures related to the integration of higher education programs
with new policy initiatives. The investments include the upgrading of educational
infrastructure, graduate program development, research and institution/capacity building,
estimated at about US$215 million over the period 1996-2000. The proposed sector project
accounts for about 39 percent of the total sector investment, targeted specifically for
developing innovative undergraduate and graduate programs and higher education research.
The project has been designed as a sector investment operation in which specific sub-projects
have not been identified; thus, project costs do not provide for contingencies. The total
project cost estimated at US$84.0 million equivalent (260.5 billion Romania Lei) is net of
taxes and duties as investments in education are tax exempt by virtue of the Education Law.
The total foreign exchange component is estimated as about US$51.4 million equivalent, or
61 percent of total project cost. The expected composition of the project costs are shown in
Tables 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 below. Detailed cost estimates are shown in the Project
Implementation Plan.
Table 5.1: Project Cost Summary by Component
%    % Total
(Lei Billion)       (USS Million)    Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
1. Management Capacity Improvement                     13.2   31.1   44.3    4.3   10.0   14.3      70    17
2. Undergraduate and Continuing Education Programs     36.3   49.3   85.6   11.7   15.9   27.6      58    33
3. Postgraduate Education Programs and Research Centers  51.5   79.0.  130.5   16.6   25.5   42.1   61    50
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    101.1  159.4  260.5   32.6   51.4   84.0      61    100
Physical Contingencies                                                         .      -      -
Price Contingencies                                                                          -       -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     101.1  159.4  260.5   32.6   51.4   84.0      61    100
Note: Amounts may nol add up to exact totais due to rounding.



- 52 -
Table 5.2: Expenditure Accounts by Component
(US$ Million)
Undergraduate Postgraduate
and        Educatlon
Management  Continuing   Programs and
Capacity      Education     Research
Improvement   Programs         Centers      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. College Programs /a                                                   -             7.0             -      7.0
B. Continuing Education Programs /a                                      -            6.7              -      6.7
C. University Programs /a                                                -            13.9             -     13.9
D. Post-Graduate Programs/a                                              -               -          14.4    14.4
E. Multi-User Centers /a                                                                 -          14.1     14.1
F. Major Research Programs/a                                             --                         13.7    13.7
G. Institutional Strengthening/Training                                4.4               -             -      4.4
H. Equipment and Software                                              7.5               -             -      7.5
Total Investment Costs                                                   11.9           27.6          42.1     81.6
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Local Staff Salaries                                                1.8               -             -      1.8
B. Program Support and Non-salary Operational Costs /b                 0.6              -              -      0.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                    2.4               -             -      2.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     14.3           27.6           42.1     84.0
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                           _     _       _      __              _      _
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      14.3           27.6           42.1     84.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                                      10.0            15.9          25.5    51.4
\a Program content includes equipment, in-country/external training, national/foreign specialist services, reference books/software
and upgrading of facilties.
\b Eligible expenditures: office materials/supplies, telecommunications, internal travel costs, incidental contractual servies
Table 5.3: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Lei Billon)             (US$ Million)        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costa
I. Investment Costs
A. College Programs/a                                           9.1    12.6    21.7       2.9      4.1      7.0       58        8
B. Continuing Education Programs/a                              8.0    12.8    20.8       2.6      4.1      6.7       61        8
C. University Programs /a                                      19.2    23.9    43.1       6.2      7.7    13.9        55       17
D. Post-Graduate Programs /a                                   18.3    26.2    44.5       5.9      8.4    14.4        59       17
E. Multi-User Centers /a                                       13.3    30.5    43.7       4.3      9.8    14.1        70       17
F. Major Research Programs /a                                  20.0    22.4    42.3       6.4      7.2    13.7        53       16
G. Institutional Strengthening/Training                         5.3      8.3    13.6      1.7      2.7      4.4       81        5
H. Equipment and Software                                       1.2    22.1    23.3       0.4      7.1      7.5       95        9
Total Investment Costs                                           94.3   158.6   253.0    30.4    51.2    81.6           63       97
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Local Staff Salaries                                         5.7        -      5.7     1.8        -      1.8        -        2
B. Program Support and Non-salary Operational Costs /b          1.1      0.7      1.8     0.4      0.2      0.6       40        1
Total Recurrent Costs                                             6.7      0.7      75      2.2      0.2      2.4       10        3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             101.1   159.4   260.5    32.6    51.4    84.0           61     100
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              101.1   159.4   260.5    32.6    51.4    84.0           61     100
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
\a Program content includes equipment, In-country/extemal training, nationalforeign specialist services, reference books/software, and upgrading of fcills.
\b Eligible expenditures: office materials/supplies, telecommunicatlons, intemal travel coats, Incidental contractual servie



- 53 -
5.2    Basis of Cost Estimates. The indicative allocations for each project subcomponent
were based on priorities assigned to market-oriented fields such as management,
accountancy, finance, banking, etc., and to social sciences.
5.3    The costs were derived as follows: 16
(a)    The costs of elements under Component I are based on the European
Union's detailed assessment of the capacity building (specialist services
and training) requirements of the management of the Higher Education
Councils and institutions, and the appropriate equipment and software
needed to upgrade the management information systems of these
institutions. Also included are the costs of the staffing and operational
needs of the Secretariats of the Higher Education Councils, the
Ministry of Education Budget Directorate, and the Project Coordination
Unit to enable these units to carry out their implementation and
coordination functions effectively. Estimates of salary and non-salary
operational costs are consistent with current Government practices.
The appraisal mission found these estimates to be reasonable.
(b)    The costs of elements under Components II and III were based on the
expected number and average size of seed and main program grants
awarded during the four-year commitment period for higher education
development and research sub-projects and programs. These sub-
projects/programs would be supported by Grants financed by the
project, and awarded through annual rounds of competition in
accordance with agreed criteria and procedures described above (paras
4.10 - 4.12). The amounts of the grants were based on: (1) expected
categories of support (i.e., research, locally funded specialist services,
staff training in-country and abroad, laboratory/research equipment,
software and library acquisitions, materials and consumables, upgrading
of educational and research facilities, and development costs) based on
experience 1 with ongoing pilot/seed sub-projects; (2) expected levels
16     Costs shown in Romanian Lei result from converting US dollar estimates at the official
exchange rate of 3100 Lei/US$1.00 (July 1996).
17    Two rounds of competition for grants have been undertaken by the Higher Education Councils.
In January 1995, the National University Research Council (NURC) launched a first
competition for small grants (up to US$5,000) for researchers. NURC received 1,745
applications which were reviewed and ranked by six disciplinary panels assisted by external



- 54 -
of competition; and (3) the student enrollment in higher education
institutions. Grants for seed sub-projects (aggregate US$6.8 million)
would range from US$5,000-US$25,000, while main program grants
(aggregate US$62.9 million) would range from US$25,000-
US$500,000. About 600 seed grants and 360 main program grants are
expected to be awarded during the four-year commitment period under
the project.
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The total estimated direct and indirect
foreign exchange component (US$51.4 million equivalent) would
constitute about 61 percent of total project cost. The foreign exchange
requirements of each type of program were based on expected relative
weights of expenditure categories (locally funded specialist services,
staff training, equipment, books and software, upgrading of facilities)
that on the average, make up each grant proposal, and are as follows:
(i) College Education Grants, 60 percent; (ii) Continuing Education
Grants, 62 percent; (iii) University Program Grants, 57 percent; (iv)
Post-graduate Program Grants, 61 percent; (v) Multi-user Center
Grants, 73 percent; and (vi) Major Research Grants, 55 percent. The
calculations of the foreign exchange component are shown in the
Project Implementation Plan.
(d)    Taxes. Total project cost estimates do not include local taxes and
duties. Expenditures for goods, services and works in the education
sector are exempted under the Education Law from import duties and
local and value added taxes. Should any of the items now assumed to
be tax-exempt become subject to the payment of taxes and duties during
the life of the project, adequate supplementary resources to pay these
dues will be made available by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry
of Education in a timely fashion.
(e)    Recurrent Costs. The total project cost includes recurrent costs and
these relate to: (i) expenditures (US$1.8 million equivalent) for project
administration in the form of salaries of additional staff of the
Secretariat of the Higher Education Council, the Ministry of Education
Budget Directorate, and the Project Coordination Unit, as well as
reviewers, and using selection criteria and procedures used by research funding bodies. The
second round was initiated in December 1995, and NURC completed final allocation of awards
by April 1996, taking into consideration the complexity of applications and the extent of
team/network collaboration, while respecting the recommendations of Selection Committees.
A third round of competitions is scheduled in October 1996.



- 55 -
related non-salary operational costs for these units; and (ii) incremental
costs (US$0.6 million equivalent) associated with the program
development, research grants and fellowships (funded by the European
Union under Component I) which will need to be sustained after project
completion. Incremental recurrent costs associated with program
development investments will be financed on a declining basis from
institutional base budgets while the grants and fellowship programs
administered by the National University Research Council will be
sustained from increasing the state budget allocation for university
research.
5.4   Sustainability. The institutional stability of the project has been assured by the 1995
enactment of the Education Law which, inter alia, calls for strengthening the management of
higher education at both system and institutional levels, devolves professional and policy
functions to intermediary councils, and decentralizes authority to the individual institutions as
part of their academic and financial autonomy. At the system level, all of the intermediary
councils have been established -- the National Council for Academic Accreditation and
Evaluation, the National Council for Attestation of Academic Titles and Degrees, the
National Higher Education Financing Council, and the National University Research Council
-- and are operational. Various measures are also in place to ensure the financial
sustainability of the higher education system. In 1993 the Ministry of Education introduced
a quota system to allow for partial cost-recovery, enabling public higher education
institutions to admit additional students at full cost. In 1995 Government abolished the
"Special Fund" in the education budget, thereby allowing public higher education institutions
to collect and retain fees collected from foreign and Romanian students and to keep other
income generated by self-financing activities. There is strong evidence of capacity and
willingness to pay for higher education, not only in the fees paid by extra-quota Romanian
students in public universities, but from the vigorous growth of fully self-financing private
higher education during the past five years. The operating costs under the project (about
US$2.4 million per annum) represent only about 1.3 percent of 1996 current expenditure for
higher education and are deemed sustainable. Furthermore, the budgetary process itself
ensures that counterpart funding from the higher education institutions' budgets will be
available.
B.   Administration of Loan Funds
5.5   Financing Plan. The total project cost of US$84.0 million equivalent would be
financed by: (a) a World Bank Loan of US$50.0 million covering 60 percent of total project



- 56 -
costs (net of taxes); (b) a Grant from the European Union " of US$9.6 million equivalent,
representing 11 percent of total costs; and (c) Government counterpart of US$24.4 million
equivalent to cover the remaining balance of 29 percent (Table 5.4).    Tables 5.5 and 5.6
illustrate the disbursement shares of the Government, the Bank and the European Union by
project component and by program category.
Table 5.4: Local/Foreign Financing
(USS Million)
The World Bank   European Union   The Government              Total
Amount    %        Amount    %        Anount    %        Amount    %
I. Foreign                          41.4     80.5       9.e      18.7      0.4       0.9     51.4      61.2
11. Local (Excl. Taxes)              8.6     26.5         -         -     24.0      73.5     32.6      38.8
ill. Taxes                             -                  -         -        -         -
Total Project                          50.0     59.5       9.6      11.4     24.4      29.1     84.0    100.0
Table 5.5: Components by Financiers
(USS Million)
Lo.i
The Word ank  Eumopwa Union  Thn overnmant       Toal        For.   td.  Duta &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %         Exch.  Taxesl  Taxs
i. ManagermntCapacity lmproment                          -    96    671        47    32.9   14.3   17.0   10.0    4.3
2. Undergraduate and Continuing Educabon Prognms  19.5   70.5    -             8 82    29.5   27.6   32.9   15.9   11.7
3. Potgraduat Educbon Progrms and Rnarch Centefs    30.5   72.5  -       -    11.6   27.5   42.1   50.1   25.5   16.6 ff
Total Disbumemant                                 50.0   595      96    114    244    291    840   1000    514    3Z6
Note: Anounts may not add up to .xt totals due to rounding.
Includes Grants from EU-PHARE, EU-TEMPUS, EU-SOCRATES AND EU-LEONARDO
Programs.



- 57 -
Table 5.6: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Local
The World Bank  European Union  The Government        Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %              Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
1. College Program Grants           5.0    70.9        -       -     2.0    29.1      7.0     8.3     4.1     2.9
2. Continuing Education Program Gran  4.9    73.1                    1.8    26.9      6.7     8.0     4.1      2.6
3. University Program Grants        9.6    69.0        -       -     4.3    31.0    13.9    16.5      7.7      6.2
4. Post-Graduate Program Grants    10.2    71.3        -       -     4.1    28.7    14.4    17.1      8.4      5.9
5. Multi-User Center Grants        11.1    78.9        -       -     3.0    21.1    14.1    16.8      9.8      4.3
6. Major Research Grants            9.2    67.2        -       -     4.5    32.8    13.7    16.2      7.2      6.4
7. Management of HECs                 -       -      0.5    54.3     0.5    45.7      1.0     1.2     0.5     0.4
8. Management of HEls                 -       -      2.0    56.7     1.5    43.3      3.5     4.2     2.1      1.5
9. Management Information Systems     -              7.0    95.0     0.4      5.0     7.4     8.8     7.0      0.4
10. Project Administration            -       -                -     2.3   100.0      2.3     2.8     0.4      2.0
Total                                 50.0    59.5     9.6    11.4    24.4    29.1    84.0   100.0    51.4    32.6
5.6     Allocation of the Loan Proceeds.  The Bank Loan would be allocated in the manner
shown in Table 5.7. As project costs have no provisions for contingencies, there are no
funds reserved in an unallocated disbursement category.
Table 5.7: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Category Description                              (US$mln)         Bank Financin    Dercent
I       University Programs                        9.6             70 percent of total grant
2       College Programs                           5.0             70 percent of total grant
3       Continuing Education               4.9             70 percent of total grant
4       Postgraduate Education Programs            10.2            70 percent of total grant
5       Major Research                             9.2             70 percent of total grant
6       Multi-User Center                          11.1            79 percent of total grant
Total Loan                                50.0
5.7     Disbursements. The disbursement profile of the project departs significantly from  the
longer regional disbursement profile for education projects, and is indicative of the advanced
state of project preparation and the experience (see footnote 14) already gathered by the
Higher Education Councils and Ministry of Education in applying competitive selection
criteria in the framework of competitive peer-review selection procedures. The project has
been designed within the capacity of the Higher Education Councils to execute over a period



- 58 -
of three years (and the recipient higher education institutions to complete within four years).
The Loan proceeds are expected to be fully disbursed within five and one-half years (eleven
semesters) after Board Approval. The Closing Date will be June 30, 2002. Disbursements
estimated for the first semester of project implementation are based on the proposed initial
deposit (US$2.25 million) into the Special Account. The semestral funding requirements are
shown below in Table 5.8.
Table 5.8: Disbursements by Semester and Government Cash Flow
(US$ Million)
The
World  European           Project
Bank    Union    Gov't    Cost
Amount Amount Amount Amount
1          2.2        -      0.9      3.1
2          2.3      2.4      1.3      6.0
3          2.7      2.4      1.4      6.5
4          3.0      2.4      3.0      8.4
5          5.8      2.4      3.2    11.4
6           7.3       -      3.1     10.4
7          7.3        -      3.1     10.4
8          6.7        -      2.8      9.5
9          6.7        -      2.8      9.5
10          3.0        -      1.4      4.4
11          3.0        -      1.4      4.4
Total         50.0      9.6    24.4    84.0
5.8   All disbursement of project funds, including the Bank Loan and the Government
counterpart will be under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Education's Director
General of the Budget, and monitored under the direction of the Director of the Project
Coordination Unit. Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) certified by the Director General of the Budget and the PCU Director. This SOE
form would also state that all subgrants related to these SOE expenditures had been awarded
in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the bank. All documentation
supporting SOEs will be retained by the Project Coordination Unit for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank
staff upon request.
5.9   Special Account and Project Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US Dollars, in a bank acceptable to the Bank,
to be used under the direction of the Director General of the Budget in MOE, and following
established procedures. Upon Loan Effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment of
the Special Account, the Bank will deposit into the Special Account, the Authorized



- 59 -
Allocation (US$4.5 million) representing the estimated average disbursements for a three-
month period for the Bank-financed expenditures. At the start of the project, the Special
Account deposit will be limited to US$2.25 million, and the remaining portion of the
Authorized Allocation will be disbursed upon request when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding Special
Commitments entered into by the Bank shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$4.5
million.
(a)   Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted on a
monthly basis or when one half of the amount deposited had been withdrawn,
whichever occurred earlier, and must include reconciled bank statements as
well as other appropriate supporting documents.
(b)   All other applications for direct payment, special commitment or
reimbursement should be for amounts not less than 20 percent of the initial
deposit of the authorized allocation to the Special Account or not less than 20
percent of the full authorized allocation once available.
(c)   Submission of replenishment applications takes precedence over the minimum
size application as stated in (b) above.
(d)   A Project Account in Romania Lei, will also be established under the general
direction of the Director General of the Budget, to finance expenditures to be
covered by Government counterpart financing. Disbursements on grants
extended to the institutions would be effected simultaneously from the Special
and Project Accounts in the respective financing ratios derived from Table 5.7.
5.10 Accounting and Auditing. Each grant recipient will be required to establish a separate
account and separate financial records to receive the grant funds and reflect disbursements
related to the implementation of its accepted program proposal. The day-to-day monitoring
of the recipients' accounts and records will be done by the Auditing Units of the Higher
Education Councils, which will report periodically (or in accordance with the timetable for
audits stipulated in the Grant Agreement between the Councils and the recipient institutions)
to the Ministry of Education Budget Directorate and the Project Coordination Unit on their
status. The Ministry of Education Budget Directorate and the Project Coordination Unit will
set up project accounts and financial records for all project-related expenditures. All these
accounts and records would be maintained in conformity with accepted international
accounting practices. The recipient institution's grant account, the Special Account as well
as the Project Account, will be audited in accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982).
The Project Coordination Unit will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each
Government fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against



- 60 -
certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal control involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
C.   Procurement
5.11  Overview. The procurement arrangements under the project are tailored to meet the
development requirements and implementing capacity of the beneficiary institutions, and the
procedural requirements of the funding agencies. Under Component I which is cofinanced
by the European Union and the Government, the items to be procured consist of discrete
goods and services including: consulting services, external/local training/study tours, goods
and equipment for project administration, non-salary operational cost items (i.e. materials,
supplies, incidental contractual services, communication), and salaries of incremental staff.
These goods and services (aggregate US$9.6 million equivalent) would be procured
according to procedures agreed between the Government and the European Union.
5.12 Under Components II and III which are co-financed by the Bank and the Government,
the project will finance demand-driven higher education development and research sub-
projects/programs (aggregate US$69.7 million) for which grant funds would be awarded to
higher education institutions and research entities in accordance with competitive selection
procedures and evaluation criteria agreed with the Bank. Grant funds would be awarded for
six program categories: (a) short-cycle College Programs; (b) long-cycle University
Programs; (c) Continuing Education Programs including a study to develop a continuing
education strategy; (d) Postgraduate Programs; (e) development of Multi-User Research
Centers; and (f) Major Research. It is estimated that about 360 main program grants
(US$62.9 million aggregate, grants ranging from US$25,000-US$500,000) and about 600
seed grants (US$6.8 million aggregate, grants ranging from US$5,000-US$25,000) would be
awarded during the five-year project implementation period. Proposals for research or
programs that directly benefit industries such as tobacco, asbestos, etc., as well as those that
could have a negative effect on the environment would not be eligible for Bank financing.
Arrangements for the award of Grant Agreements to sub-projects/programs are summarized
below (Table 5.9).



- 61 -
Table 5.9 Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement
Method
Competitive
Selection    N.B.F.    Total
A. College Program Grants /a                                7.0        -        7.0
(5.0)             (5.0)
B. Continuing Education Program Grants /a                   6.7        -       6.7
(4.9)             (4.9)
C. University Program Grants /a                            13.9        -       13.9
(9.6)             (9.6)
D. Post-Graduate Program Grants /a                         14.4        -      14.4
(10.2)            (10.2)
E. Multi-User Center Grants /a                             14.1        -      14.1
(1 1.1)            (I 11 1)
F. Major Research Grants /a                                13.7        -       13.7
(9.2)             (9.2)
G. Office Equipment, Computers and Software                   -      7.5       7.5
H. Institutional Strengthening/Training                       -      4.4       4.4
I. Salaries of Local Staff                                    -      1.8       1.8
J. Program Support and Operational Costs lb                   -      0.6       0.6
Total                                                       69.7     14.3      84.0
(50.0)       -    (50.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by The World Bank
ba Competitive selection in accordance with procedures and criteda agreed with the Bank
\b Eligible expenditures: office materials/supplies, telecommunications, intemal travel costs,
and incidental contractual services
5.13 Evaluation Criteria and Grant Award Procedures. The selection of sub-projects under
Components II and III for grant funding would pass through two levels of review before final
award of grant funds: (a) internal evaluation at the level of the applicant institution; and (b)
evaluation at the level of the Higher Education Councils. The procedures and evaluation
criteria applied are in greater detail in the Project Implementation Plan.
5.14 Bank Review of Grant Awards. The Bank review of grant awards will focus on
observance of agreed criteria and procedures during the selection process. The Bank would
review about 100 sub-projects each year as part of the prior review, including both accepted
and rejected sub-projects. The sub-projects to be reviewed would be selected by the Bank so
as to give a representative sample of sub-project applications across the main subject fields.
The Bank review would take place after selection by the Higher Education Councils, but



- 62 -
prior to the endorsement of the selected programs/researches by the Minister of Education
and the announcement of Grant awards.
5.15  Procurement by Grant Recipients. It is not possible to anticipate or predetermine the
types, quantities and timing of the procurement of goods and services that could make up the
approved proposals for educational development and research grant funding. Thus, it would
neither be practical nor feasible to centralize procurement responsibility or activity at the
level of the Councils or the Higher Education Reform Program Implementation Unit.
Consequently, each grant recipient institution would be responsible for the procurement of
the expenditure items described in its program/research proposal accepted by the Councils.
Nevertheless, wherever feasible, the Project Coordination Unit will encourage grant
recipients to consolidate the procurement of their needs with that of other awardees, such that
it may be possible to group similar requirements (e.g. computer hardware, software and
books) into larger bid packages. Such possibilities could result in obtaining more
advantageous conditions of delivery, services and maintenance from manufacturers/suppliers,
as well as savings to the institutions from economy of scale.
5.16 The Grant Agreements between institutions and the Higher Education Councils would
stipulate the acceptable procurement arrangements to be employed by the grant recipients.
These arrangements are described in detail in the Project Implementation Plan, and are
summarized below. For the same reasons cited above in para 5.15, it would not be useful or
practical to prescribe aggregate thresholds by type of procurement procedure used:
(a)   For Goods: International Competitive Bidding procedures for goods estimated
to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more per contract; International Shopping
procedures for goods contracts estimated at less than US$300,000, on the basis
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible
countries; National Shopping procedures for goods estimated to cost under
US$50,000 per contract based on quotations obtained from at least three local
suppliers; Limited International Bidding for items of a specialized nature; and
Direct Contracting for proprietary items (e.g. books, reference materials,
software, equipment spare parts). Procurement of goods should be consistent
with the provisions of the Bank "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits," January 1995, revised January 1996 (the
Procurement Guidelines)
(b)   For Works contracts: National Competitive Bidding procedures for contracts
below US$500,000 equivalent. Award of works contracts below US$100,000
would be based on the lowest evaluated offer from at least three local
contractors. Procurement of works should be consistent with the Bank
Procurement Guidelines.



- 63 -
(c)   For Consulting Services: competitive selection process based on shortlisting of
consultants/firms for contracts estimated at more than US$50,000, and
consistent with the Bank "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency," August 1981.
5.17 The Project Coordination Unit will extend procurement advice to the higher education
institutions/grant recipients as appropriate/needed, including assistance in adapting the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement of goods and consulting services. At
appraisal, draft competition announcements, instructions for preparing proposals, Grant
Agreements, as well as the procedures for institutional and Higher Education Council
evaluation of proposals, were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. These model
documents are included as annexes to the Project Implementation Plan. The Project
Coordination Unit will monitor the conduct of procurement under the Grant Agreements for
consistency with Bank practice. The Procurement Plan (Table 5.10) shows indicative values,
aggregation and timing of procurement of goods, works and services that could make up the
program proposals financed by the project.



- 64 -
Table 5.10 Procurement Plan
Number       Total       Method             Schedule of Grant Compettons (Round 1)
Procuremnet Package                         of         Coat          of                      fl4il1.$       *et "       t*eM
Grants     US$000      Procurement                                w           h
1 Colege Progrom Innovtiohn
Seed Grants                                100         $1,000       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Feb-97       Feb-97
Main Program Grants                         60         $6,000       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Feb-97       Feb-97
2 Unhveraity Progranm nnovatAon
Seed Grants                                133         $2,000       CSi          Aug-96       Nov-96       Feb-97       Feb-97
Main Program Grants                        119        $11,900       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Feb-97       Feb-97
3 Continuing Education
Seed Grants                                 35           $700       CS1           Sep-96      Dec-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
Main Program Grants                         20         $6,000       CS1           Sep-96      Dec-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
4 Postgraduate Program Development
Seed Grants                                150           $750       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
Main Program Grants                         68        $13,600       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
5 Multi-User Center
Seed Grants                                 40         $1,000       CS1           Sep-96      Jan-97       Mar-97       Apr-97
Main Program Grants                         44        $13,100       CS1           Sep-96      Jan-97       Mar-97       Apr-97
6 MaJor Rse"rch
Seed Grants                                135         S1,350        CST          Aug-96      Nov-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
Main Program Grants                         51        S12,300       CS1          Aug-96       Nov-96       Mar-97       Mar-97
TOTAL COST                 $69,700
Number       Coat
Total Seed Grants    593        S6,800
Total Main Program Grants    362       $62,900
Probable Breakdown of Above
Subproject Grants Into                No. of      Total        Method             Schedule of Key Procurement Activities a/
Procurement Expenditure Items             Procurement    Cost          of            t t
(ie .Goods, Services, Works)            Packages    US$000      Procur ment           t      e              _        SI       X
Educational/Laboratory/Office Equipment
Peckages > US$300,000                      none
Packages US$50,000-US$300,000              214        *18,960       IS/1.1       May-97        Jul-97      Aug-97       Sep-97
Packages < US$50,000                       741        S11,440        NS           Apr-97      May-97       Jun-97       Jul-97
Fellowships/Study ToursuTrining                   630       $17,570         CS            n.a.         n.e.        n.a.       Aug-97
Locally Funded Specialists                        912         $7,485        CS          Mar-97         n.e.        n.a.       May-97
Books/Publication/SoStwre/Materals                955 6        10,225     Direct        Apr-97       May-97       Jun-97       Jul-97
Cvl WorkslBuilding Upgrading                      274         $4,020       LCB          Aug-97       Oct-97       Nov-97      Dec-97
TOTAL COST                 $69,700
a/ Procurement under subprojects awarded during first round of competitions only
LEGEND:
CS Competitive Selection in accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
CS1 Competitive Selection according to procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.
LIB Limited International Bidding.
IS International Shopping for contracts below US$300,000.
NS National Shopping for contracts below US650,000.
LCB Local Competitive Bidding
DC Direct contracting for proprietary items
ADM By Administration



- 65 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
6.1   The policy conditions and project investments under the proposed project would have
multiple outputs and multiple benefits. First, the proposed project would counter past neglect
of investment in curricula, teaching materials, staff training and teaching equipment. It
would stimulate widespread innovation from the "grassroots" of the academic community,
i.e., from individual academics, departments and faculties. The development grants to be
supported under the project would lead to new types of training programs and better quality
of existing programs. In addition, specified systemic reforms -- such as the introduction of
the credit-hour system of academic accounting or development of shortened programs and
continuing education -- would enhance the flexibility of deployment of resources within the
system. The immediate output would be graduates trained in more relevant subjects for a
market economy and an across-the-board raising of educational quality. The benefits of these
improved outputs from the system would be substantial numbers of people trained to standard
in the skills required for a market economy, leading to increased productivity, more rapid
labor redeployment and greater flexibility in redeployment of resources in higher education
in response to shifts in demand.
6.2   Second, the proposed project would strengthen private education in two ways. A
specific output of the project would be increased supplies of qualified teaching personnel,
particularly in market-oriented fields, thereby relieving one of the main supply constraints on
expansion of private education. In addition, accredited private institutions would have equal
access to development funds under the project to start or reinforce program innovations. The
benefit would be greater quality and student choice in the system through a strengthened and
competitive system of higher education, including the ability to command even higher levels
of cost recovery.
6.3   Third, the proposed project would make a major impact on the allocation of resources
within higher education. Recurrent expenditures would be allocated according to enrollment-
based norms and average unit costs by field of study. Development expenditures would be
awarded by intermediary organizations on the basis of competitive grants according to agreed
criteria and procedures. Individual higher education institutions would establish procedures
for internal review of priorities and would apply for capital grants on the basis of
institutional development plans. These procedures would achieve more efficient use of
resources within higher education, and would tend to reduce unit recurrent costs per student.
In effect, more could be done within the existing envelope of resources. The procedures
would enable funds to follow students, eliminate distortions in present expenditure patterns,
e.g., overfunding of technical fields at the expense of newly expanding market-oriented
fields, and would also help narrow the current extreme variance in per student recurrent
costs.



- 66 -
6.4   Fourth, the proposed project would contribute to the strengthening of institutional
capacity within higher education. Intermediary organizations would experience growth
through the process of establishing priorities and awarding grants through competition on the
basis of explicit rational criteria. Higher education institutions would receive assistance in
preparing development plans and establishment of information systems for better management
of student and academic resources. The benefit would be to reinforce decentralization of the
system, and ensure that decisions are taken effectively at the lowest levels. A capacity to
sustain and build on system-wide reforms would be maintained well into the 21st century.
Modernization and strengthening of higher education would facilitate realization of
Romania's goal of eventual integration with the EU.
B.    Risks
6.5   First, major reform of higher education systems has proved to be politically and
economically sensitive in most countries. Success requires broad consensus of major
stakeholders. The broad participation and wide consultations employed by Romanian
authorities in the development of these higher education reform programs should help to
minimize the inevitable political risks inherent in the reforms.
6.6   Second, the number of small grant proposals to be processed, approved and
supervised may impose an unworkable administrative burden on inexperienced organizations.
To counter this risk the project has required that sufficient staff resources be added to the
organizations and that a project coordination unit be established specifically to look after loan
administration. Moreover, the procedures for grant selection have been tested in the
previous round of research grant proposals, and were found to be feasible. Despite these
preparations, it is impossible to know with certainty in advance how the organizations will
perform. The matter of administrative workload must be kept under careful review during
project execution so as to identify problems and take remedial action promptly.
6.7   Third, the project assumes that the increased quality output from postgraduate studies
will eliminate the teacher supply constraints on expansion of private education and on the
quality and numbers of teaching staff in public institutions. However, the actual employment
of graduates in the teaching profession will depend on the incentives for such work at the
time, including salary and other benefits. These incentives will have to be sufficiently
attractive for the intended benefits of the project to be realized. Developments towards an
effective Teacher Statute, part of the Government's policy objectives, is critical to success
and will be kept under review during project execution.
6.8   Finally, there is a risk that the Councils will approve grant proposals of relatively low
quality or with superficial innovations, i.e., that the agreed criteria would not be sufficiently
adopted and practiced. There is also a risk that grant funds would be diluted and dispersed
across excessive numbers of sub-projects such that impact is dissipated and diffused. Careful
strategic selection of priorities would be required, along with periodic careful monitoring of
performance, to avoid these risks.



- 67 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)   maintain its commitment to the measures in the sector policy matrix agreed at
appraisal, and consult with the Bank annually in the execution of intended
measures and any changes in the policy (para. 3.7);
(b)   will maintain the Higher Education Councils and the PCU with a sufficient
number of qualified staff, adequate facilities, and authority satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.9 and 4.27);
(c)   follow procedures and criteria for selection and award of grant proposals
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.20);
(d)   consult with the Bank about: i) indicative allocations by field of study in
higher education before each annual review of grant proposals, and ii)
subsequent proposed allocations by field of study that deviate by more than 20
percent from these indicative allocations (para. 4.21);
(e)   review each year with the Bank a sample of about 100 grant applications and
the overall process used for grant awards recommended by the councils before
the submission of the recommended grant awards to the Minister of Education
for final approval, and will facilitate the Bank review of the procedures and
criteria followed in arriving at the recommendations (para. 4.34).
Recommendation
7.2   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project provides a suitable basis for a
loan of US$50.0 million to Romania.






- 69 -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Background on Higher Education and Research System
Annex 2:    Draft Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 3:    Policy Matrix
Annex 4:    Cost Benefit/Cost Effectiveness of Higher Education in Romania
Annex 5:    Criteria and Procedures for Sub-project Selection
Annex 6:    Sector and Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 7:    Bibliography of Materials in Project File






- 71 -
ANNEX 1: BACKGROUND ON HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH SYSTEM
Overview
Prior to December 1989, Romanian higher education shared many characteristics with other
Central and Eastern European (CEE) systems, but it was also unique in important respects. Like
most countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Romania's higher education system has a
distinguished history with some of its older institutions dating back many centuries. The University
of Cluj was founded in medieval times, and, during the 19th and early 20th century, Romanian
universities developed as elite and high quality institutions modeled after those of France and
Germany. However, after World War II, the model of higher education and research prevalent in
the communist countries was adopted in Romania. In the communist model, the essential linkage
of teaching and research, pioneered by Humboldt in 19th century Prussia and widely adopted since
then, was severed. Instead, the university became a high level manpower training institution and
research was relocated in specialized research institutes where the political reliability of scholars
and scientists could be more easily controlled. Basic research institutes were placed under the
academies of science and applied research institutes under the line ministries.
What made Romania unique among the communist countries was that in the mid-1970s
Ceausescu distorted the higher education and research system even further. Ironically, Romanian
higher education and research opened up to the West after the events of the Prague Spring (1968)
up to the mid-1970s, when Ceausescu was regarded as a maverick in Eastern Europe for opposing
the invasion of Czechoslovakia by the Soviet Union. Many Romanian academics, who are still
active at present, enjoyed the opportunities of studying and doing research abroad during that time.
However, about the mid-1970s, when Ceausescu began to accelerate his policy of industrialization
and technological self-sufficiency, his regime created an even more centralized and distorted system
of higher education and research than prevailed in any of the communist bloc countries. Basic
scientific research was removed from the Academy of Sciences, which was reduced to a mere shell,
and placed in the research  institutes under the line ministries.  The National Science and
Technology Council centralized research to an extreme and used gross political interference instead
of scientific criteria to make decisions.  The results were disastrous for higher education and
research and Romanian professors and researchers were cut off from international cooperation.
Inmmediately after the overthrow of the Ceausescu regime, important changes took place.
The National Council for Science and Technology was disbanded and the Ministry of Education and
Science was created  in 1990 with responsibilities for both education  and research.  Public
universities asserted their right to academic freedom, although administratively and financially they
were still under central controls in many key matters.  Many private universities mushroomed
starting in 1990 based upon a commercial law that allowed private entities to provide tutoring and
educational services. In 1992, the Ministry of Research and Technology was created and given
responsibility for scientific research and the Ministry of Education and Science was changed to
Ministry of Education, although it was still responsible for higher education.  The Romanian
Academy of Sciences was also revitalized and many of the research institutes were returned to it.
Structure and Governance of Higher Education
The rapid changes outlined above pointed to the need for a new education law to provide
an organized legal framework for higher education. In 1993 Parliament passed an Accreditation
Law that established the National Council for Accreditation and Academic Evaluation. After more
than two years of discussions in Parliament, the new Education Law that covered the whole



- 72 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
education system was passed in July 1995. Significant chapters of the law were devoted to higher
education. The higher education system is now more differentiated with three distinct levels as laid
out in the Education Law.
The college level course of study takes two to three year of study in courses that are more
vocationally oriented with more practical courses with less theoretical orientation.
Applicants must have passed the baccalaureate exam given at the end of secondary school.
In addition, they must also pass the entrance exam given by the higher education institution.
The course of study ends with an examination in the field of specialization and a diploma
is issued for that field of study.
The university level takes four years typically, but a few fields, such as medicine may take
six years. As for the college level, applicants must pass the baccalaureate exam at the end
of secondary as well as the entrance exam set by the faculty of the institution to which they
are applying. At the end of their studies, students must pass an exam in their field of
studies to complete their requirements for a bachelor's degree.
Postgraduate programs can be Masters or doctoral courses of study with research.
Applicants must have a bachelor's degree and pass the entrance exam of the faculty they
wish to enter. The doctoral program requires advanced coursework as well as completion
of thesis to be publicly defended and assessed by a panel of experts. Doctoral degrees are
awarded by the university and confirmed by the National Council for the Attestation of
Academic Titles and Degrees.
The Education Law provides for three levels of governance of the public higher education
system: the central level of the Ministry of Education, the intermediary Councils and the individual
higher education institutions (HEI).
The Ministry of Education is responsible for the education system at all levels and each year
the Minister must present a report, which is publicly available, to Parliament on the
education system (see attachment for an organization diagram of the Ministry and the
Councils).   The budgetary  allocations of the universities, although based  upon the
recommendations of the Higher Education Finance Council (see below), are transferred to
the institutions through the Budget Department of the Ministry of Education.  These
budgetary allocations to universities and colleges must also be make public.
With respect to the intermediary organizations, the Education Law provides for a number
of councils that report to the Minister and advise on different aspects of higher education.
The most important of these for the purposes of this project are the Higher Education
Finance Council, the University Research Council and the National Rectors' Council. While
the National Council on Accreditation and Academnic Evaluation also report to the Minister,
this council also reports directly to Parliament and is autonomous of the Ministry of
Education in its functioning, decision making and its budget.
The individual public HEIs are provided autonomy, both academic and administrative, by
the Education Law. The Education Law defines academic autonomy as the right of the



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
academic community to exercise its academic freedoms in the absence of ideological,
political or religious constraints. HEIs are also autonomous in the administration and use
of its budgetary resources subject within the appropriate public finance rules. The academic
community of an HEI elects the Senate, which is the governing body of the institution, in
accordance with the institution's charter.  The individual faculties of an institution have
professorial boards that govern the affairs of the faculties. The Education Law allows for
participation of students in the Senate and the professorial boards of faculties in which they
can comprise up to 20 percent.
Private HEIs are also subject to the Education Law, which regards them as part of the
national system of higher education, but they are accorded complete autonomy in matters such as
charging tuition and fees and in their forms of governance. Accredited private HEIs are granted
the same tax exemptions from VAT and import duties as are public ones and their students are also
granted the same discounts and privileges, such as transportation discounts, as are students of public
HEIs. In addition, accredited private HEIs can compete for program development and research
grants, and their students, who are financially needy but academically qualified, can benefit from
state financial aid when matched with that from the private HEI.
Dimensions of the System
In the early 1970s, the higher education system consisted of more than fifty (51) institutions
and almost two hundred (195) teaching faculties. This was reduced to 44 institutions and 101
teaching faculties by 1989. Although the number of graduates of academic secondary schools slowly
increased from the mid 1970s, total higher education enrollments declined to about 164,000 students
in 1989 from 193,000 at the beginning of the 1980s.
The total number of public degree granting institutions has grown to 56 from 44 in 1989/90
while the number of teaching faculties has more than doubled. New public universities have been
established, especially in more educationally disadvantaged regions. Most of the new institutions
have small enrollments as do the majority of older ones. In 1992/93, 18 institutions enrolled fewer
than 1,000 students and only 6 had enrollments of more than 10,000 students, the largest institutions
being in the Bucharest region which accounts for 40 percent of all university enrollment.
Despite the rapid expansion of higher education enrollments in the public sector, access to
universities is still highly competitive. In the 1993 university entrance examinations, the ratio of
candidates per seat was 20:1 in some faculties though the number of places has increased
appreciably. Science and engineering have experienced the most radical reductions both as a share
of total enrollment at the university level and in absolute numbers since 1989. For instance,
engineering enrollments have dropped precipitously from 65 percent of total enrollment to 38
percent in 1992/93. In some engineering fields in 1993 there was competition for less than 10
percent of the available places. Meanwhile, enrollments in economics, social sciences and the
humanities have grown and now account for almost half (45%) of higher education enrollments.
New courses have been introduced in fields such as journalism, social work and business while
studies in sociology, psychology and other social science disciplines that were suppressed during the
Ceausescu period have been revived.
Changes in aggregate enrollment since the late 1970s have occurred in the context of a



- 74 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
relatively stable population of school and university age students.  Therefore, the reduction in
enrollments in the 1980s correspond to an even larger reduction in the enrollment rate of the
appropriate age cohorts. As the 1989 15-19 and 10-14 age cohorts move to university entry age,
there will be a demographic factor increasing the demand for places but this will fall again around
the year 2000 as the smaller 5-9 group reaches the appropriate age.
Academic and Research Programs
There was very little diversity in the length and structure of undergraduate programs prior
to 1989. Programs in science, arts, social science and the humanities were usually of four years'
duration while programs in some professional fields such as engineering and medicine were five
years. Evening courses required an additional year. Teaching faculties, as is common in European
systems, functioned autonomously in regard to admission, instruction and examination and programs
were highly specialized.
The Education Law and regulations of the HECs now allow and encourage more flexible
program structures. Two to three year certificate programs are being established in many new
fields--for example, in library and information sciences. Traditional degree courses, especially in
engineering, are being divided into two cycles: a short cycle diploma program of three years with
two additional years of study leading to a degree. At the Polytechnic University of Romania,
broader areas of specialization such as electrical and mechanical engineering are now emphasized
and studies are offered in English, German, French as well as in Romanian. In addition, the older
public universities are introducing Masters programs of one to two years duration including some
in new inter-disciplinary specialties such as ecology and environmental engineering.  Full time
doctoral programs involving advanced course work as well as research are also being re-established,
and are now offered in about 40 public universities, entry to which will soon require the new
Master's degree.
Some progress is being made in reforming the organization of instruction and assessment.
Programs of study are increasingly become course based rather than credit based which limits
students' choices, fosters premature specialization, and prevents mobility among fields, faculties and
institutions. The number of hours of compulsory instruction have been reduced from 36 to 24
hours a week, more in line with Western European or North American universities. This leaves
more time for self-study, but it will also require more and better teaching materials and library
resources. Private universities are also introducing changes, e.g. the Ecology University has been
innovative in these respects, pioneering introduction of the credit system, major and minor program
concentrations and new methods of assessment.
For reasons related to the efforts of communist governments to destroy academic research
after 1948, higher education is the junior partner and smallest player in the national research
system. In 1991, researchers in the higher education system represented only 3 percent of R&D
personnel. But the number of full time equivalent R&D personnel in higher education more than
tripled between 1989 and 1992, due to expansion of the professorate while the number of R&D
scientists and engineers in sectoral scientific institutions greatly declined
Most R&D activity in the higher education system is concentrated at the largest public
universities, primarily those in the Bucharest region and especially the Polytechnic University in



- 75 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
Bucharest. In higher education institutions in Western European and North American countries,
graduate education is the principal means of producing research. Expansion of graduate programs
in Romania's universities did not begin until 1990. Since then, the universities have re-established
their traditionally prominent position in doctoral training Nevertheless, the rapid growth of
undergraduate education, the poor infrastructure for staff and student research and the lack of
funding are serious constraints on the development of research capacity in the higher education
system. The Government Strategy adopted in 1994 called for establishment of the University
Research Council as a proper mechanism for funding for university research. The URC was first
established by a decree of the Minister of Education in early 1995 and started its operations.
Subsequently, the URC was given a stronger foundation in the 1995 Education Law.
Staffing and Infrastructure
The shortage of staff represents a serious constraint on curricular modemization, and
especially on the development of graduate programs which are needed to produce the next
generation of academics. In 1992/93, the student to staff ratio in public universities was 7.5:1 if the
number of authorized staff posts is taken as the denominator, and about 13:1 if actual staff on
board is the denominator. Almost half of all sanctioned academic posts in the public universities
were vacant in 1993/94. The high course requirements of academic programs distort this situation.
If staff teaching workloads remained unchanged (at 12 hours for teaching assistants and 6 hours
for professors) but course requirements for undergraduates were reduced to, say, 24 hours of
instruction per week, significant staffing resources would be freed to support development of new
programs especially at the Master's and doctoral levels. However, this would prompt radical
changes in methods of instruction and assessment that would, in tum, require larger lecture halls
and, especially, expansion of library and laboratory facilities.
Although the overall student-to-academic staff ratio changed very little, from 13.4:1 in
1989/90 to 13.2:1 in 1992/93, there were large changes in individual fields. In economics and
business courses where enrollments increased from 12,500 to 27,000, actual staff numbers were
constant increasing the student to staff ratio to almost 50:1 in 1992/93. However, in engineering
which in 1989/90 accounted for about two thirds of all students but only slightly more than a third
in 1992/93, the student staff ratio fell from 19:1 to 13:1.
Growing enrollments have led to a chronic staff shortage in fields with high employment
opportunity. This has led as well to the recruitment of many young staff without doctoral degrees
whose heavy teaching responsibilities discourage their professional development. Academic work
confers lifetime security of employment and salaries are rigidly tied to rank with eligibility for
promotion based on length of service. To ensure uniformity in the professional degree and titles
in higher education institutions, the National Council for Attestation of Academic Titles, Degrees,
Diplomas and Certificates, appointed by the Ministry of Education, establishes criteria for such
degrees as the Ph.D, etc.  A professorship  represents the pinnacle of an academnic career.
Traditionally, promotion to the senior ranks of the professorate (associate professorship or a chair)
has required a doctoral degree and involvement in research and doctoral supervision.
The very rigid, one dimensional structure of academic work fosters a high degree of
uniformity in the missions of higher education institutions and the aspirations of their staff. One
consequence is the stimulus provided to staff to seek recognition of the right to guide doctoral



- 76 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
studies (and, thus, to admit students), an opportunity denied to many staff before 1990. The
number of staff deemed qualified to supervise doctoral studies increased by almost seven times
between 1990 and 1992, contributing to a massive expansion of doctoral enrollments.  Because
doctoral training has been equated with research, almost all new higher education institutions wish
to be recognized as research universities and to offer doctoral degrees. This includes most of the
new private higher education institutions.
Infrastructure needs for higher education are very acute. Library materials are a particular
problem. A 1993 report International Book Development Ltd., a consultant firm specializing in
supply of books and libraries, drew attention to the serious shortage of funding for (university)
libraries to cover stock acquisition, automation,  refurbishment  and training.  Buildings and
equipment have seen very little refurbishment as is evident in the dilapidated state of buildings and
equipment. Nevertheless, there was an increase in building space per student at a time of very high
enrollment growth, from 3.47 sqare meters per student in 1989 to 5.19 sqare meters per student in
1992. This was not the result of new building, but reflects the transfer of school buildings to the
universities. Thus physical space is not so much a problem as is refurbishing and furnishing proper
materials and equipment for existing space.
Costs and Finance
In the past, resources from the state budget were allocated to the public universities
according to an outline budget for all salary and non-salary expenses. This had to conform to a very
detailed set of norms, which have very extensive information requirements and specify, for example,
allowable expenditures for energy based on square meters of space for students. All important cost
parameters were prescribed, including wages and salaries and even staffing levels for the student
hostels and refectories. The public universities had no discretion in these matters.
In determining the allocation from the state budget, the relevant ministries (finance and
education) took into account estimates  of internally generated  income (self-financing).  The
resulting grant was split into a series of chapters with very limited scope for flexibility in reallocation
by the institution. For any total level of expenditure by an institution, the higher the estimated self-
financing, the lower the required state subvention. Thus, any effort by an institution to raise funds
was offset by a reduction in state grants. One response by institutions was to attempt to keep
internally generated income from fees, charges, contract research and other sources "off-budget;"
i.e. in a separate account. That, in turn, provided incentives to institutions to develop activities such
as micro-production which are peripheral to the main functions of a university, as core activities are
difficult to put "off-budget." The principal effect of this system of allocating resources, though, was
to generally discourage institutions from diversifying their income.
One feature of educational systems under acute resource pressures is absent in Romania;
namely, the tendency for salary items to crowd out the materials, maintenance and other non-salary
items as a share of higher education expenditures.  This is not to say that non-salary items are
adequately funded. Capital expenditures and, especially, allocations for library materials, are very
low.   In 1991 and 1992, no new building was started.  Most capital expenditures are for the
renovation of existing buildings, and the distinction between capital and maintenance may not be
very meaningful.



- 77 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
Funding for research in the universities was very little since they were regarded as the least
significant part of the national research system. To overcome this funding problem, a new Special
Fund for Higher Education Research was instituted in 1993/94 financed by fees paid by Romanian
and foreign students into an account managed by the Ministry of Education. Previously, there was
a Special Fund for Education derived mainly from foreign student fees. Half of the foreign
currency obtained was allocated to the universities and supported professional travel, acquisition
of library materials and purchase of computers, inexpensive research equipment and consumables
as determined by the institutions. The Ministry's intention was to enlarge this source of funding
with fees paid by Romanian students and transform it into a fund to develop graduate education
and research capacity. But since these fees were paid to the institutions and their teaching faculties-
-and kept "off budget"--the new special fund did not develop into a significant source of research
funding for the universities.
Research funding from external sources, such as programs of the European Union, accounts
for a very small amount of national research expenditure. Its primary importance is as a source of
international professional recognition, exposure to peer review from the international scientific
community as well as in the opportunities various programs of support provide for scientific
collaboration and professional development. These benefits have special significance for Romania's
formerly isolated scientific and academic communities.
External sources accounted for only .18 percent of current national R&D expenditure in
1992, less than in 1990 (.55%) or in the peak year, 1991 (.77%). A plausible interpretation  of the
declining proportion of support is the increased competition from other scientific communities in
Eastern and Central Europe for the scarce research funding available from foreign sources. For
instance, in 1992/93 competition for the European Union's fellowships and joint research projects
program, designed to "re-connect" the scientific communities of Eastern and Central Europe with
Western Europe, 11,750 applications were received. Only a fourth (25%) were funded and just
thirty grants were made in support of joint research programs. Romanians contributed about 2,000
applications of which 20 percent were approved.
Romanian researchers face multiple obstacles to securing foreign funding for their activities
or in order to improve their training and skills; outdated laboratory equipment, inadequate libraries;
poor financial and professional incentives and, more importantly, a legacy of professional isolation
from the mid-1970s. A 1993 survey of staff in the Romanian Academy and in Government scientific
institutions indicated that researchers:
a)     have little exposure, experience or communication  with foreign colleagues (only
"15% have authored scientific papers published in a foreign scientific journal over
the last 3-4 years";
b)     have little access to foreign scientific literature (with the consequence that "among
references cited in the papers published in Romanian scientific journals, there are
very few citations of mainstream works and these are often from the 1960s"); and
c)     despite the lifting of restrictions on foreign professional travel, relatively few have
opportunities to attend international conferences because of low salaries, limited
travel funding and difficulties in obtaining foreign currency and visas.



- 78 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
In addition, Romanian researchers had little experience with competitive funding mechanisms and
little knowledge of funding opportunities, especially researchers located in institutions outside
Bucharest.  Most of those studied recognized the importance  of such funding for obtaining
literature, equipment and access to expertise. Moreover, the international cooperation that comes
with foreign funding can help to improve Romania's competitiveness in intemational science.



ROMANIA: lGHER EDUCATION REi ORtM
Organization Chart: Ministry of Education
|       ~~PARLU IAMENT           
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON
ACCREDITATION AND ACADEUC
EVALUATION
STATUTORY CONSULTATIVE BODIES _                       |ISTEROF                          |                  STATUORY ADVISORY BODIES:
EDUCATION                            1. National Council of Attestation of
1. National Education Relonn Council                                                                    Academic Tlies and Degrees
2. National Confrence of University                                                                     2. University Research Counci
Rectom         3. Higher Education Financing Council
AD HOC ADVISORY BODY                    SECRETARY OF STATE               SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR PRE-UNIVERSITY                FOR HUMAN AND
| HGHER EDUCATION REFORM                 I     EDUCATION                  FINANCIAL RESOURCES
IMPLEMENTATION GROUP
OFFICES:                                                        1                              Dlitcto    r for   DirUrGnlrr D |rc
DlhetrGEducatifor         for Humnan and      IGenrml forI
1. Aud& ,M.                                                                         ReshearEdcath   SFinancial                     Rfn
Resources
2. Oisn d Itwns          Reions
3. Leg alW  Offic m -                                                                                         OFFICES:
1. Budgot
4. IrfonSIIok  and Pmss Office                                                                             2. Psononel of
Educafond
Insdtuions
3. Personnd of
A*inklstratlon
4. Finance and                  >
S. Data
S. Slalatics and
Analysis



THE NAFIONAL COUNCIL FOR ACCREDITFATION ANI) ACADEMIC EVALUATION
Parliament
Minister of Education
iThe National Council fbr Accreditation and Acadcmic Evaluation
President
Vice - President                                      Executive Secretary
for Ext   Committee  Ex                              Expert      for ArtsExpert
Tecnica     frCommtteeExpert                                 Committee  Comittee  fo\ \ \=Committee
iCoStcealenee                 /       /        / /or           Co      e f\    \r Lw                Enlcaml
Exact                                                                                                              ScSceieenMeicleesnar   fr  oca
Sciencesl /I/                                    /       /      e     \     \       \       \u i                              and
/   /   /   /       I      \       \         \         \               \           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ournalisni
Expert                       s            /g\\.x_                                                            Expcrt
Commnittee  Expen                             I      t                                                       Comrailtec
for Exact   Comniittee  ExPeTt                } Expert                                           Expert      for Ails
Sciences 11  for        Committee Eixpert       Commnillee               Expert       E-xpert    Committee  and Sports        >
Technical  for   Committee  frExpeft                   Comnmittee  Conimittee  for'                        I
Sciences I  Technnicsl    eial fortn AcWWm   Committee  focia            for Law     Econmc    
_      ~~Sciences    andl Falesby  lIumalulics  Sciences  II
Sciences



The National Higher Education Financing Council
Minister of Education
The National Higher Education
Financing Council
President
Prime Vice-President
co
VieA -|Preside              Vice - Preslden|      l     | Vice - Presiden             ExecutivetSecretar 
!Committee for Program                       Commitee forCapital Investmentsl
..                                 .
Experl            Expert           | Expert             Expert Committee                      E
Committee         t 'e""'a           Cfor Life & Earth Sciences, Mathematics   Cmittee
fMd*l        ~~for Technical    for Agriculuirial   &CatramSiece,tcoomcse
ScrMeiecs        Sciences           & Veterinary       &  aua  cecs  cnois                    o  rs&Sot
Sclences                  ~~~~~Sciences        Social Sciences & Humanities



University Research Council
Minister of EducatIon
University Research Council
President
Vice - Preside:nt:|         Vice - President           EVice - Presiden            Executive Secretary 
0)
Selection         SelectonSelection                                        Selection         Selection
CoriteCmiteCmiteCommittee                               Committee                   Committee
for Mathematics    for Engineering    the Humanities    for Life &         &  Aarictal       for Medical
& Nakira          Sciences           the Humanities     Earth Sciences                        Sciences
Sciences                             & Economics                           Sciences
.  _                     _    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



ANNDEX 2
-83-                                 Page 1 of 7
ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                            MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Mr. JOHANNES F. LINN
Vice Pireside,nt
Europe and Central Asia
THE VWORLD BANK
Dear Mr. LiPn,
The y .Ar 1990 marked the beginning of significant changcs in Romania's higher
cduca, ill system which proved to be a most dynnamic social sector. The Govermnent
has pt:rsued 'the development and initial implementation of a coherent ambitious
progranmme since 1993 in an effort to drastically reform highcr cducation as a whole.
T'hc p: .gramrre is part of the country's economic and social reform strategy with
higher .iAucation reform fostering, facilitating and promoting reform in the economy.
T'hcrc n!e scvcral principlcs which guide the Government's highcr cducation reforn.. in
Roma- d.
(a)  ; Higher education reform should be correlated with economic rcform.
'hc e. c of higher education is crucial to the success of economic reform as it
develop,.; strategies for transition from a centrally planned cconomy to a market
cconon; y, tralns professional in fields that a inarket economy needs, dcvelops new
tcchnologics ind production processes, trains professional managers, and promotes
and dcVclopITent of a new mentality and a new attitude. The market cconomy requires
ncw prqfessional and managerial expertise that higher education can provide. T'he
cmcrg,:'ce of a, still small, private sector of the economy has determined a soaring
demand for e,'cpertise in a number of areas (finance, banking, insurance, accotuting,
law, microelectronics and informatics, tclecornInunications, management, social
sciences, a.o.). Universities need quickly to adjust to the changing labour mark-et
deinan. 'and supply trained professionals in appropriate numbers and in a reasonably
short time. For higher education reform to move in step witli economic reform, draitic
changes are required at higher education institution level: restructuring programmes,
by quickly ,expanding some of them and .-ccduction some others (either because they
were overdeveloped in the past, or because labour market demand has shruiik),
innova:ing curricula, expanding re-training 0h?cugh short programnmes, and continuing



ANNEX 2
- 84-                                PaPe 2 of 7
education programrmes. Basically, more flexibility is required of higher education to
respond to economic and social reform.
(b)   Quality study programmes. Quality assurance through national and
institutional procedures and mechanisms aims to stimulate universities clearly and
appropriatcly to define their missions and objective, properly to assess their human,
mnatcrial and financial requirements and to develop internal quality assessment
mcchmnisms'and procedures for their programmes. Continuing assessment and self-
assessincnt of higher education also has the rolelof protecting thc community against
the institLtiins that do not have the capacity to deliver on thcir promises, and
signalling - to higher education candidates and beneficiaries alike - the quality of
various institutions and programmes. Quality indicators are going to bc a major public
fundinig allocation criterion. Quality assurance in Romania's higher education is set on
legally establishcd standards, widely known to the academic comrununity, and cnforced
in a transparent and objective fashion; these standards are in line with those in use in
advanced 'countrics. However, higher education quality cannot be assesscd or
imnproved unless university autonomy and academic frcedoms are observed.
(c)    Equal access. Higher education reform, also pursues to give equal
opportunities and non-discriminatory access to academic education. The basic
conditions for entry to higher education are intellectual skills and talent. Since
transiuion to a market economy has brought with it wide discrepancics in personal
income; special programmes to assist meritorious but needy students are required for
thc equal opportunities policy to be consistently pursued.
!(d)   Supporting the growth of private higher education. At a time when
demand for higher cducation is soaring, the private sector has the potential to eJfer
new  icaldemic programmes and increase student intake. Furthermore, the private
sector mztroduces welcome compctition in higher education by providing alternative
prograt nmqs, structures, and training tcchniques. Private higher education has a
signif'cant role to play, particularly in the development of hexible undergraduate
progra.nmcs that are highly responsive to labour mnarket demand fluctuation. The
developmcnt 'of private higher education can mobilize new sources of finance at a
time wlien public budget allocations are severely constrained.
(e)    Reforming higher education managemcnt. If higher education reform
is to succeed," acadcmic and administrative management must change at both system
and institutioli al level. Univcrsity autonomy requires highcr cducation management to
be decentralized extensively, with the Ministry of Education rclinquishing much of its
decision mnking power to national academic agencies and universities. Quality
assurance in public and private higher education, the use of funding mechanisnis,
growin)g university research and competitive research grants call for the creation of
national academic   organisms comprised of representatives of the academic
community.' The status of such organisms is consultative in relation to the Ministry of
Education. I'hcy also act as consultancies to universities insofar as quality assuranCe,
financing and research organisation arc concerned. Against the background of
university a'utonomy, these agencies give representatives of the academic community
a kcy role in,the management of the education system. They ensure that decision-



ANI=X 2
- 85-                                 Page 3 of 7
making is objective, appropriate (through knowledge of various institutiolnal
situations), transparent and fair.
(f)    Changing financing mechanisms and procedures. The fast growth of
higher education and trailing public allocations call for drastic changes in funding for
higher education institutions to make sure that the available financial resources are
distributed in an objcctive, fair and transparent fashion, all while improving the
cfficicicy 'of those resources, whether allocated of self-generated. In vicw  of
prolonm;d underfinancing of higher education, which amountcd to only 0.5 percent of
the GDP in 1994, the new financing system pursues to substantially expand public
allocat. ons to' higher education, and quickly incrcasc the size and weight of capital and
devcloprnent-expenditure. Furthermore, there should bc a diversification of fiunding
and a growirng contribution from sources other than the public budget (tuition fees,
sponsorships,' revenues from academnic scrvices or property). The new funding
mechanisms demand the HEIs enjoy broad fmnancial autonomy, and this in turn calls
for professipnal administrative and financial management, and its higher
accouil.abiiity.
Romania's higher education rcforrn which is under implementation has already
acl ieved substantial success, over 1993-96, more particularly:
'a)   'rho law on academic assessment and accreditation was passed in 1993.
It scts the' framework for quality higher cducation, for quality assessment and
improvzencrnt Quality is assessed by an independent Parliament-elected body: the
LNationial Cotincil on Academic Assessmc.at and Accrcditation. There are twelve
specinlist comrmittees operating under it, each of which peiiodically assesses the
prograrnmcs in its own field. The Accreditation Council also cmploys experts and
specialist staff on a full-time basis. Assessment is fully performcd by members of the
academic community. Under tie Law on Academic Assessmcnt and Accreditation,
thcrc are minimal standards that every programrne in the country must mcct. These
standards have been set in consultation with professional associations and arc broadly
in linc  vith those in EU countries. The new academic assessment and accrcditation
proccdures are the legal basis for the operation of privatc higher education institutions.
(b)    A Programme of Higher Education Reform in Romania was prepared
in 1994. It was the outcome of a joint effort by Romanian and forcign cxpeits who
wrote a'gdod many studies during 1992-94. Specialist advicc and' assistance was
provided by!,the World Bank all along. The Programmc sets the principles and
guidelintes for reform of study prograrnmes, univcrsity research, institutiolial
financingz, student support, academic management and institutional management,
quality assurance, student intake monitoring, a.s.o. The Programme came under the
scrutiny of urniversities across the country und was endorsed by the whole acadenic
community. With its provisions as a basis, twenty-eight universities designed their
owni reforrm programmes, as part of a pilot srudy coordinated jointly by UNESCO and
the World Bank. Eventually, cvcry university made its own reformi progranimie. In
November 1994, the Programme was approved by the Govemrnent of Romania as the
policy framn'eork for higher cducation reforn. Many of its provisions have been put
into the new Law on Education.



ANIOC 2
Page 4 of 7
- 86 _
(c)   In 1995, the new Law on Education was passed. It sanctions the
divcrsification of study programmes (undergraduaLe - short-cycle and long-cycle, and
postgraduate master and doctoral); a diffcrcnt approach to cducation management (at
national levcl, the Ministry of Education, the National Council on Academic
Assessment alid Accreditation, thc National Highcr Education Financing Council, the
National Couhcil on University Research, the National Council on Acadcmic Titlcs
and Deg ees). The law makes significant changes, in higher education financing (corc
budgcr bblock grants, non-budgetary funds, financing tied to quality assessmcnt,
competitive rescarch grants, a guaranteed minimumn of four percent of GDI1 allocation
for education). Under the new law, accredited private education is part of the national
higher education system. Accredited private universicies have, by law, the same status
as public universities have (private univernities are tax exempt, can compete fof
research grants for development and qua!lity improvement of higher education;
talented;' students cnrolled in accredited private universities are eligible for state
suppoit:. graduate and postgraduate grants for studies abroad and doctoral grants; the
diplomas and certificates issued by accredited private universities and public
univcrsities are equivalent).
(d)    4t present (1996), thle Law on Education is in force and the Higher
Education Reform Programme is under way. Their provisions have largely been
implentented. The hours of compulsory instruction have been reduced to 22-28 per
week, !ionp 28-36. For the most part, degree programmes have been shorted to four
years, ronl five or six, and shoLt-cycle (two-to-three years) certificate programmes
hlave n:ultiplied. The weight of clective and optional courses in curricular activities
has gro.wn. Study credits have partly been used since 1995 to give students more
indcpea.dence and increase their responsibility in setting their academic course all
while making the system more efficient by bringing the failure rate down. About 500
postgraduate iprogrammes (including rnaster and PhD programmes, and continuing
education programmes) have been licensed. University research has significantly
growni through master and doctoral programmes, and the establishment of new
research centres. Competitive research grants have become widespread since 1995.
aTherc lhas bein a partial introduction of foimula fuinding (HEIs allocations in respect
of student niembers and average student costs by field and level of study). During
1994-96, sonme 1,800 new programmes given by both public and private higher
cducation inltitutions have been assessed. Unless minimal standards were met,
operation licenses were not issued and some programmes were terminated (about 400
programmes): The new quality assurance. and institutional financial mechanisms have
bcn instrumnental in reducing prograrmme overlapping and duplication, and to narrow
specialization:. Student intake is increasingly correlated to labour 'narket demand;
while cnrolment in fields for whlich demuanid is low (engineering) have dropped by 30-
50 percent, tljey have risen by as much as 100-200 percent in areas where demand is
high (law, sQcial sciences, accounting, finance, bank-ing, informatics). University
autonomiy ajid academic freedoms are embedded in the new  charter of every
university across the country.
(ej   The year 1995 marked a turning point in higher education financing
mechanisms and the size of allocations. Public investment in: higher education and



AINE  2
Page 5 of 7
- 87 -
averagc. per student cxpcnditures began to grow. The 1996 Budget Law makes
provision for- a significant increase in public allocation to higher education. The sharc
of capital expenditures and university research expenditures has grown. Public
univcrsities have increased the weight of self-financing (tuition fccs can lawfilly be
charged, higher revenues are generated from academic services and propcrty). Private
higher 'cducation financing cuts a substantial share (about onc-third) of total
enrolmcnts. Private funding are revenue generation in 1995 accounted for about 25
pcrccnt of total recurrent costs of higher education.
In 1996 and Lhe next four-fivc years, the Government intends vigorously to pursue
further implementation of the Law on Education and the Higier Education Refonr
Programme
(a)   Major curricular changes will tak-e place in both structure and content.
Programmes will be given in new fields of study'and special priority will be given to
establish new' multidisciplinary programmes. Programmes in some traditional fields of
study (stuch as cngineering, agriculture) will be restructured. Tnie new programmes
will bo finanrccd by competitively allocated grants wvithout limiting the access to
grants for any field of studies. The credit system will become widespread as of the
1996-97 academic year. Inter- and intrainstitutional student mobility is to be
encour:ied. t'octoral studics have been regulated by the Government Decision
adopted in .1996.
(b)i  Quality assurance and improvement will further be pursued and the
periodic evaluation of the tcaching and research staff performance will be put in place
(about 4,000 ,pcoplc evcry year). Parliament is expected to pass soon the Teaching
Staff Statute. iThe Statute provides for the career diversification of the teaching staff,
rcmoval of years-of-expcricncc barriers to promotion, reliance on teaching and
scientdrc performance criteria, and usc of short-term contracts. The Statute gives
univer.ities a wide measure of autonomy insofar as the tcaching and administrative
staffin!; lcvels, recruitment, and promotion arc conccmed. In 1996, every university
will develop specific criteria and mechanismns for periodic evaluation of teaching and
researcii staff performance. During 1996-98, all programmes offered by public and
private univcrsities (some 3,500 in all) will be assessed for quality and steps will be
taken accordingly).
(c'    Beginning in 1996, a new student support system will be used under
which granits to poor but mcritorious stucii,'s will increase (at least 20 percent of
schola:ship funds will be allocated to these students). Annually, the Ministry of
Education may award graduate and postgraduate grants for studies abroad and
doctoral. grants on national competitive bases; the competitions will be accessible to
all students and graduatcs from public and accredited private higher education
institutions.
(d)   The reform  of the education system  management and institutional
managrmcnt will bc continued. The Ministry of Education will be such reorganized as
to cxrcis ifor   powers it was given by the Law on Education (1996/97). The National
Councilfor. Hipher Education Financing, thc National Council on Accreditation and



AN.EX 2
-88-                              Page 6 of 7
Assessment and the National Council for Academic Research will exercise all the
powers they 'were given by the laws and regulatory acts. Appropriate fuiancial and
human rcsourccs will be provided for them to operate effectively. The organisation
and operation of the National Council for Higher Education Financing and the
National Council for Academic Research were regulated by the 1996 Order of the
Minister of Education. In addition, a Government Decision will regulate financing of
acadenAic research through grants.
(e)   The Higher Education Reform Program Implemcntation Unit will be
organi.ed to supervise reform programme implementation, manage extemal financing
and coordinLte donors's assistance. Highly significant will be the changes at
institutional inanagement levcl: separation  of academic  management form
adminiislrative management, recruitment of professional administrative managers,
widespread use of computcr-assistcd management, autonomous management of
sLudcnt services. Special management training programmes wvill be given in an effort
to increase tie capacity of universities for academic planning, management, and self-
governance. Institutional devclopment programmes will be a preliminary condition for
grants competition. Evaluation procedurcs for institutional development programmes
will bc set (196). Computerization of all academic activities is to be achieved as the
national academic network is to be completed and connected to international
netweL!;s. Isnproving the managcmcnt of higher education and computerization at both
the sysreiiV. aiid institutional levels is to be done largcly through a EU assistance
programnme effective in 1996.
f:)    :tarting 1996, the new system of highcr cducation financing will be
genera.!sed. core funding through block grants allocatcd according to a noimative
fundis.-; fornibla based on enrolment and unit costs will bc introduced ensuring that
resour:ccs follow student demand and funding distortions arc corrcctcd.
Starting: 1996-1997, almost 70-80 percent of funds for operating grants will be
alloca: Ad as core budget according to the normative funding formula. This proportion
will be gradually increased until, by end of acadernic year 1998-99, all public funding
for core operating budgets will be allocated through the formula. Thesc finds will be
provided to institutions through block grants allowing flexi$ility of cxpenditures
within five bfoad categories with restrictions only on the movement of funds from
capital, personnel and student support budgets.
During the next years, development funds for the HEIs will be allocated only
competitivcly' on the basis of rigorous peer-review. The Govcrnment will ensure the
incrcase of the investment-allocatcd funds within the global budget for public
educati,on.
Ihe ,;-iiopal Council for Higher Education i;inancing will set the allocatioin
proced.ires ,and mechanisms for allocation of core funding andecompetitive grants as
well as access criteria of public and accre-dited private institutions to the competition
for research rants for developmcnt and quality; improvement of higher education.
These new 'mechanisms will considerably increase the financial autonomy of higher
cducation institutions.



ANNEX 2
- 89 -                                Page 7 of 7
Concurrently, mechanisms and procedures to incrcase accountabilityjwill also be put
in place. As of 1996/7, institutions will be audited for their use of allocations. The
share of private financing and cost recovery will continue to grow, to somc 30
perccnt by the year 2000.
Sincerely,
Minister of Education,                                      Ministcr of Statc,
:. Minister of Finance,
.LVhivMAiulr                                                PFl rin Georgcscu






ANNEX 3: Romania: Higher Education Strategy and Policy Matrix
OBJECTIVES             MEANS                    ACTION TAKEN                           ACTION REMAINING
1. EXTERNAL
PRODUCTIVITY           A.Changing Content:      Al.New Fields:                         Al-3.New fields:
I.Introduce new fields    -Official program guidelines first  -Offer competitive grants for new
Reorient higher        2.Eliminate              established [19941                     program development and innovation;
education to make it    overspecialization
responsive to market   3.Create                 C  . Restructuring:                    A2.Overspecialization:
economy, including     interdisciplinary studies  -Length of degree programs           -Offer competitive grants to develop
standardized [19951;                  consolidated programs
A.Changing the         B. Adjusting Size:      -Three-tier structure adopted [19951;
content;                I.Reduce publicly-      -Courses of varying length introduced,    Bl-2.Adiusting Size:
funded enrollments in   including short courses, continuing    -Introduce norm-based funding
B.Readjusting the size;  surplus fields (e.g.   education and retraining [19951        according to enrollments thereby
engineering)                                                   ensuring that resources follow student
C.Building in flexibility  2.Expand in market-  C2.Program Organization:               demand and funding distortions are
oriented fields (e.g.   -Electives and double majors permitted    corrected.                           (D
business, accounting)   [1994];
-Student mobility fostered by phased  C2.Credit System.
C. Building Flexibility:   adoption of credit system [1995/6];  -Provide incentives for full
1.Restructure higher    -Transfers permitted between programs   implementation  of credit system, e.g.
education programs      and institutions [1995/61              application of full-time equivalent
2.Reform organization                                          students as part of funding formula
of teaching             C3. Reforming Teacher Service          [1996/7]
3.Reform teacher        -New law on teachers submitted to
service                 Parliament, including provisions for   C3.Reforming Teacher Service:
introducing contract employment and   -Introduce Government regulations
salary differentials by field.        allowing HEIs more autonomy in
terms of employment and
remuneration of staff.



j OBJECTIVES            I MEANS                  I ACTION TAKEN                           |_ACTION REMAINING
II. QUALITY             A. Establishment of      A.Standards-Appointment  of              A.Standards: -Development of
ASSURANCE               accreditation            Accreditation Council [1993];            standards and procedures for cyclical
mechanism  and           establishment of standards for          quality evaluation by 97/8
To revitalize academic    minimum  educational   institutional accreditation [19931;      B. Accountability: -Link budget
programs so as to       standards                -Accreditation review process            allocations and accreditation to
achieve higher quality    B. Introduction of     completed for .. . institutions and ...  educational results
standards.              accountability for       programs [1994]                          C. Program Incentives: -Provision of
educational results      -Introduction of terminal testing of    competitive grants based on rigorous
C. Establish incentives    graduates in the professions to ensure  peer review:
for program  innovation    equivalency [1995]                     (1) through the Financing Council
D. Achieve better        B.Accountability: Periodic (cyclical)   for undergraduate teacher and
balance in expenditures,  review provided in accreditation law   program development;
i.e. more for            and linkage of results to public funding  (2) through the Financing Council
development, teacher     [1994]                                  for capital investment, such as
training, materials and    D.Expenditures: 1996 budget includes  equipment and libraries;
complementary            about 20% for capital improvements      D.Expenditures:
investments              E.Postgraduate Education:-Decision  to   -Target: Government to
E. Development of        concentrate available resources in      reach/maintain  at least 20% of total
post-graduate education   selected postgraduate institutions [19941  public education spending on
so as to relieve         -Accreditation begun of master's        development, innovations and capital
constraints on           programs [1994]                         investment by 1998/9
expansion of            -Introduction of course-based post       E.Postgraduate Studies:-lntroduction
undergraduate            graduate teaching [1994]                of two track career streams for
enrollments in market    -Introduction of masters degree [1995] -  research and academic staff in the
fields by expanding      Government adopted regulations for      Teacher Statute
output of qualified      doctoral studies [1996];                -Provision of peer-review based
teachers                -Establishment of international          competitive grants through the
F. Development of        collaboration, mainly through EU        Research Council for development of
academic research as     F.AcademicResearch:-Establishment  of   postgraduate teaching programs
an integral part of      Research Council [1995];
postgraduate education   -Academic research program  introduced
through education budget [1995]
G.Academic Research: Provision of
peer-review based competitive grants
through the Research Council for
l_______________________  graduate academic research.



OBJECTIVES              MEANS               -ACTIONS TAKEN                              ACTIONS REMAINING
I111. INTERNAL                                  Al. Program rationalization:            A2.Allocation mechanisms:
EFFICIENCY              A. More Efficient Use:  -Length of degree programs reduced      -Introduce normative funding formula
To control public       1. Rationalize the      [1995]                                  based on enrollment and unit costs:
expenditures on higher   organization of teaching  -Short cycle introduced [1995]      Introduce competitive grants for
education by:           programs                -Number of hours of compulsory          development, innovation;
instruction reduced [1995]             -Base capital expenditures on
A. Making more                                  -Overspecialization reduced [1991-6]    approved long-term plans
efficient use of present   2. Adopt new budget  A2.Allocation mechanisms:-Public       -Introduce in stages block grant
financial allocations to   allocation procedures  allocations divided into four categories,   allocations, permitting internal
higher education        so as to give incentives   viz. core funding, development, capital    reallocations: Stage 1 [1996/7]
for efficiency          and student support [1995]             allowance of line-item flexibility,
-Preparation of 28 university multi-year   except non-salary to salary categories;
institution development plans as a basis  Stage 2 [1997-8] increase proportion
for allocation of capital budget       of core funding transferred through
Bl.Private Expansion:-Legal basis      block grants as determined by formula
established, expanded [1993; 1995]     -Prepare guidelines on assessing
B. Mobilizing                                   -Tax exemptions granted [1995]          capital development requests [1996/7],
additional private                              -Eligibility established  to compete for    and norms for financing civil works
resources for financing   B. Resource           public grants [1995];                   [1996/71
higher education        Mobilization:           -Substantial consolidation into units of    Bi.Private Expansion: -Remove
expansion and quality    1. Expand private      economic size occurred through the      constraints on teacher supply [See
improvement             education               accreditation process [1994]            Objective II]
B2.Cost Recovery:                      -Financing Council issues guidelines
-Institutions enabled to set level of  ensuring access of accredited private
allowable fees [1995]                  education to competitive grants for
-Institution permitted to retain income    program development and innovation
from all sources [19951                [1997]
2. Achieve greater cost  -Institutions given ownership of assets,    Target: Private enrollment to reach
recovery in public      which can be used partly to generate   30% of total undergraduate
education               income [1995]                          enrollment by 1999/00.
B2.Cost Recoverv:
Target: Non-public sources contribute
at least 30% of total recurrent budgets
in public institutions by 1998/9



[OBJECTIVES           TMEANS                     I ACTION TAKEN                      -FACTIONS REMAINING
IV. EQUITY
To ensure that able,    -Allocate student        -Principle adopted of basing            -Introduce new support scheme for
but poor students can    support on basis of     scholarships increasingly on need as    students in public institutions [1996/7]
have access to higher    need and merit          well as merit [19951
education;                                                                              -Financing Council to announce
-Education Law [1995] permits public   guidelines for matching grants of up to
and -- in the process--   -Eventually introduce  sharing of support to students in private  50% of the student support given to
to mitigate the adverse   an income-contingent   higher education institutions           poor but talented students in
equity consequences of  loan scheme, once real                                           accredited private institutions [1996/7]
relying on cost         incomes stabilize and
recovery for system    the country's financial                                           Target: no less than 20% of
improvement and         institutions develop                                             scholarships allocated to needy but
expansion                                                                                talented students
Target: Limit merit alone scholarships
to 3% of overall student support
budget;



OBJECTIVES             | MEANS                  [ACTIONS TAKEN                          | ACTIONS REMAINING
V. SYSTEM AND
INSTITUTION
MANAGEMENT                                                                                A. Central Role: Reorganization of
A. Redefine central      A. Central Role: -New allocation and    Ministry of Education to reflect new
To rationalize the      government role          control functions for Ministry of        functions planned for 1996/7
management structure                             Education [19951
of higher education, so   B. Devolve professional   -Size of Ministry staff reduced from 800   B. Intermediaries: Provision of
as to:                  functions to             to 200 positions [1991-1996]             adequate staff and operating
intermediary                                                     expenditures for the Councils
-Strengthen strategic   institutions             B. Intermediaries: Intermediary
planning capacities                              professional advisory bodies created:    D. Management: -Institutional
C. Decentralize by        -Accreditation Council [1993]          development plans become a pre-
-Promote professional    delegating authority     -Credentials Council [1995]            requisite for access to competitive
planning and control                               -Financing Council [1995]              grants
D. Improve system and    -Academic Research Council [1995]       -Establishment of a review procedure
-Strengthen             institutional                                                     for institutional development plans
institutional           management               C. Delegation: Academic, financial and   -Require managements of higher
management and                                   managerial autonomy of higher            education institutions to select     |  t
administration                                   education institutions guaranteed in the   priorities through internal review of
Education Law [19951                    competitive grant proposals
-Promote institutional development of
D. Management-28  individual            intermediary bodies and higher
institutional development plans         education institutions through EU
prepared by universities [1995/6]       project
-Build professional management
-Efforts begun at establishing new      capacities through separate salary
internal institutional governance       stream  and training for administrators
structures [1995];                      - Create management information
systems to support institutional and
-Efforts begun at establishing separate    system decision making
administrative and academic functions                          02.14.1996
at institution level in some key
institutions [1995]






- 97 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
COST BENEFIT/COST EFFECTrVENESS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN ROMANIA
INTRODUCTION
This annex summarizes the available information on benefits and costs of higher
education and gives a preliminary assessment of the problems of carrying out a reliable
benefit/cost analysis, including estimating rates of return to higher education. Based upon
this preliminary assessment, proposals are made for data collection and analysis that should
be built into the project monitoring and evaluation so as to improve assessment of the
development impact of the project.
RETURNS TO HIGHER EDUCATION
Since the work of Gary Becker, Jacob Mincer and others on human capital in the
1960s, it has become standard to use earnings differentials by levels of education as an
analytical tool for assessing rates of return to investments in education. There is a vast
literature on this, with many debates about problems of interpretation of earnings and
education data. Nonetheless, if data are available, it is appropriate to see if policy insights
can be gained by appropriate analysis.
A national household survey, financed through a Bank project, was conducted from
April 1994 to December 1994 to provide a better basis for assessing poverty and living
standards in Romania. The tables in the attachment to this annex show the results of
estimating a standard Mincerian human capital earnings function for this data set'. The
results are first described and then some of the implications of this for the earnings-education
relationship are discussed below.
The earnings function used was of the form
log Y = a + b*EDU + c*EXP + d*EXP2 + e*TEN + f*TEN2 + g*X
where log Y is the natural logarithm of gross monthly earnings, EDU is a set of dummy
variables for different levels of education, EXP is years of general work experience, TEN is
years of tenure at the current firm, and X is a vector denoting other individual, firm or
regional variables (see page 1 of this attachment for full set of variables).
1/ These results are taken from a background report The Labor Market and the
Poor in Romania, E. Skoufias (December 16, 1995). This report was
commissioned as one of the background papers for the Banks's Romania Poverty
Assessment.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
Regression 1 (see attachment to this annex) shows the coefficients for the above
specification of the above earnings function. The coefficient of the dummy variables for
education levels is often taken to indicate, at least approximately, the private rate of return to
schooling, on the simplifying assumption that the private costs of education are measured by
the earnings foregone in fuiltime education. The coefficient for four-year college education
is 0.53 and for secondary education it is 0.17, with the result that college educated workers
earn 36 percent ((0.53-0.17)xlOO) more than secondary-educated workers. Since university
education is four years, this might be taken to indicate that the private rate of return to public
higher education would be nine percent. Similarly, the coefficient for the three-year college
level also indicates a private rate of return of about nine percent.
Some caveats are needed with regard to giving too precise an interpretation to these
coefficients as private rates of return.
(a) There is the issue of how competitive the labor market is in Romania.
Privatization has been proceeding at a slow pace and in the 1994 survey only about 10
percent (about 2,000) of the cases involved workers in private firms. To explore the
possibility of private-public sector pay differentials, regression 2 (see attachment) that
includes terms with an interaction of education dummy variables and private-public
sector dummy variables. The results do not indicate any significant difference in pay
between private and public sectors.
(b) Wage differentiation in Romania has been much less pronounced than in other
Central and Eastern European economies that have been pursuing a faster transition to
a market economy. Thus, the usual assumptions about relative wages and relative
marginal productivity of labor do not hold with the same force.
(c) The graduates of Romanian higher education studied in this 1994 survey have
been through an unreformed curriculum; it can be expected, as a result of the reforms
that the project supports, that future graduates will have a much more appropriate
knowledge and skills set, thereby raising their labor market productivity further.
(d) The wages in the survey are gross wages, i.e., before taxes, whereas what is
required for private rates of return are after tax or net wages. Since tax rates on
individuals are not that progressive in Romania, and, also because out of pocket costs
of public higher education are not that great, this may not cause as serious an error in
private rates of return as the fact that wage differentials are compressed, and actually
may understate the relative benefits of higher education.
(e) Adjustments are often made for different unemployment rates of university
graduates versus secondary school leavers. The unemployment rates from the 1994
survey are 3 percent for university graduates versus 17 percent for secondary school



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
graduates. While it is difficult to project unemployment differentials by education
over the working life of individuals, the evidence from most OECD economies is that
university graduates experience much lower unemployment, both cyclical and
structural.
The above considerations suggest that the private rate of return for public higher education
indicated by the coefficients of the earnings function is likely to be a lower bound.
While the private rate of return is useful for understanding the private demand for
higher education, the social rate of return is the relevant one for public policy. The social
rate of return takes into account the costs of public higher education incurred by the
govemment and also uses gross wages in the benefit calculations. In Chapter 3 of the main
text, the short cut approach was used to estimate the social rate of return. A more detailed
and more accurate method can be used as well that makes use of the coefficients of the
earnings functions to construct experience-earnings profiles. This can be done by noting
that, since the regression uses log Y as the dependent variable,
Y = constant*exp (b*EDU+c*EXP+d*EXP2)
where exp represents the exponential function using the base e of natural logarithms, EDU,
EXP, b,c and d are as in the equation above, and the constant factor in front represents the
effects of the constant term of the regression and the average values of the other personal
characteristics used in the regression. The predicted experience-earnings profile of
university, relative to secondary graduates, gives an estimate the benefits; the earnings of
secondary graduates during the four years of university studies estimate the opportunity
costs, and the direct cost of university education come from cost studies (see the following
section on costs). The internal rate of retum, about 7.5 percent (somewhat less than what
the short cut method gives) can be calculated from the estimated cost-benefit stream (see
attachment). Again, this should be interpreted as a lower bound to the social rate of return
likely to prevail in the future as wage differentials widen. For example, if the coefficient of
university education is set at a value that prevails in Poland or Czech Republic, the result for
the rate of return is about 1 1 percent.
The rate of return estimate to higher education estimated here should not be taken as
the rate of return to the project. The purpose of the project is to improve the relevance of
the higher education system to the needs of a market economy so as to increase the rate of
return above the levels estimated from 1994 data.
COST ANALYSIS
As noted above, costs must also be brought into the picture in order to complete the
analysis, especially to take into account the social rate of return as well as the private one.



- 100 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
Cost differentials by field of study should also be taken into account where possible. Table 1
below gives these results based upon a preliminary study of unit costs by fields of study
conducted by the Higher Education Financing Council (HEFC). The table shows that
relative cost patterns for humanities and technical fields have changed over time, with the
technical fields becoming more expensive relative to the average-unit costs and the
humanities becoming less expensive. The more recent relative cost patterns of 1994
approach the more typical situation in Western higher education systems. However, two
fields that stand out in this pattern of relative costs are agriculture and artistic education. In
the case of artistic education, the relatively high unit costs of two times the average is a
reflection of the method of training with full time salaried staff for a small number of
students. In the case of agricultural education, the relatively high unit costs reflects the fact
that these universities have sources of funding through agricultural production and sales that
are not available to other institutions.
Table 1: UNIT COSTS OF INSTRUCTION BY AREA OF STUDY
(In nominal Lei)2
Area of            1990        1991         1992        1993          1994
study
1. HUMANITIES   12647          34538       76272        246269       646254
2. TECHNICAL    10470          32927        110468      342301        892469
3. ECONOMICS       8795        23384        68734       176315       764628
4. MEDICINE        16474       44167        110928      355690       987390
5. AGRICULTURE  19340          71731        166932      604245       2030118
6. ARTISTIC       42941        97508       242978       831051       2050564
7. SPORTS          9113        40049        107165      196293       754795
AVERAGE          12371       36348        100033      304653       869061
j/ The unit cost data in this table is based upon a survey of higher
education institutions conducted by the Higher Education Finance Council in
1995 as part of the cost study referred to above. This survey will be
followed up each year with better unit cost data collected as part of the
regular operations of the Higher Education Finance Council.



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
It would be useful to take this cost data by fields from the unit costs study and
combine it with experience-education profiles in the same fields to carry out benefit-cost
analysis by fields of study. However, the cost data itself still needs some refinements and
another year or two of data collection to ensure that the system is settling down to normal
patterns and avoiding some of the anomalies of the early transition period when price and
allocation distortions posed problems of using cost data. In addition, the 1994 data set will
be analyzed further to see if there is a sufficient number of cases to support a private and
public sector comparison of wage earnings differentials by fields of study. This would then
allow for a more rigorous comparison of costs and benefits.
Some elements of the reform program were conceived with the aim of achieving more
efficiency and cost effectiveness, thereby generating cost savings. The shortening of
programs from five years to four years means that the cost of producing a university would
decrease by 20 percent, other things being equal. In terms of the short-cut method, this
would give a four-year cost of $2400 and would reduce the opportunity cost to $4800, with a
correspondingly smaller benefit stream of $720 annually. Other cost reduction measures
include the number of compulsory hours of instruction and the introduction of a credit-hour
system to generate efficiency gains. This would result in a reduction of the teaching
component of unit costs (about 50 percent of total unit costs) by almost one third. In
addition, a larger proportion of enrollment will be in the lower cost fields of business and
social sciences versus the higher cost engineering fields. However, to generate these
efficiency gains requires investments in new programs, libraries, learning materials and staff
development that the project would support. The cost savings from efficiency gains should
be counted as benefits of the project, in addition to those benefits derived by the earnings
functions analysis, providing an additional element of economic justification for the project
investments.
ROMANIAN HIGHER EDUCATION COSTS IN INTERNATIONAL PERSPECTIVE
To get an idea of the scope for decreasing costs or improving cost effectiveness, it is
useful to compare costs in Romanian higher education with that in other countries. Costs of
higher education, as reflected in expenditures, in Romania are low by international standards.
Table 2 below compares funding for higher education in Romania to higher education
funding in a number of other countries from Eastern Europe, OECD, as well as from the fast
growing economies of East Asia.



- 102 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
Table 2:        Total Expenditures and Public Expenditures on Education and Higher Education as s
Percentage of GDP in Selected Countries
I        Education, ALL LeveLs                   Higher Education
Country
Country         J      PubLic             TotaL              PubLic             Total
Romania                          3.3                3.4                0.4                0.5
BuLgaria                         6.2                NA                 1.3                 NA
Slovakia                         6.2                NA                 0.9                 NA
Poland                           5.2                 NA                0.9                 NA
Hungary                          6.2                6.7                0.9                1.0
Turkey                           4.0                NA                 1.0                1.1
Spain                            4.5                5.6                0.8                1.0
Ireland                          5.5                5.9                1.2                1.4
OECD Average                      5.2               6.4                1.2                1.9        !
Korea                            3.0                 NA                0.5                 NA
Malaysia                          7.9                NA                2.0                 NA
Singapore                        5.0                 NA                1.8                 NA
ThaiLand                         3.2                 NA                0.6                 NA
Source: UNESCO, OECD, and World Bank estimates (Circa 1993)
For East Asian Countries data is for 1985 (East Asian Miracte, WorLd Bank (1993))
Within the Eastern European context, Romanian higher education expenditure is lower
than average. This is also the case compared to the countries of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), even considering countries at the lower
end of the OECD income range, such as Spain or Turkey. Looking even further afield to
some of the high performing Asian economies, where higher education has played a role in
their economic success, Korea and Thailand show a public spending on higher education as a
share of GDP that is about the same as Romania's. However, the private expenditures on
higher education in Korea and Thailand is significant, a trend that has started in Romania,
and is to be encouraged by policies of the higher education reform.
Comparing some of the East Asian economies with Romania in the late 1970s, when
their GNP per capita (not adjusted for purchasing power parities) was not too different from
that of Romania at present, shows a fairly similar pattern of enrollments. In the late 1970s,
Romania's educational enrollment structure, in terms of primary, secondary and higher
education, was roughly the same as that of Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan.



- 103 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Table 3: GNP per capita in 1978 and Gross Enrollment Rates (1977)
(Source: WorLd Devetopment Report (1980))
| Country      | GNP per    | Primary      Secondary    High Educ.
capita       EnroLlment    Enroilment    EnroLLment
l _____  ____ J Rate                        Rate         Rate
Malaysia         1090         93           43           3
Korea            1160        111           88           11
Taiwan          1400         100           76           12
Romania         1750          102          77           10
Ironically, in the late 1970s Romania's GNP per capita was listed in the World Bank's 1980
World Development Report as being higher than these countries by a significant amount, a
situation that has been dramatically reversed by the sustained rapid growth of these
economies and the steady economic decline of Romania, whose GNP per capita was about 50
percent of its 1980 level in 1993. While the East Asian economies continued investing in
higher education, supported in the case of Korea by a sequence of World Bank sector
investment loans, Romania's higher education stagnated. However, the lesson for Romania,
and other Eastern European economies, is that as they expand their higher education, they
should maintain their strong base of basic education, and they should also pursue a good mix
of macro- and micro-economic policies in order to make the most effective use of their
investments in human resources, as did the high performing economies of East Asia.
MONITORING COSTS AND BENEFITS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
The costs and benefit indicators discussed above have significant data limitations that
prevent as complete an assessment as would be desirable. However, to overcome these data
limitations, the project will address some of these data deficiencies by monitoring and
refining sources of data and information throughout the project implementation. The
household survey will be repeated in 1998 and will be analyzed to assess changes in the
earnings-education relationship, especially in the private sector, which should be a larger
proportion of total employment by that time. Other survey data will be available as well,
such as a time series of employment and unemployment pattems based upon the new labor
force surveys which started up in 1994. Special studies, such as tracer studies of graduates,
will also be commissioned to keep track of what should be a fast changing labor market.
With respect to cost analysis, the new policy of formula funding for public institutions
would generate relevant cost data by fields of study for each institution. This would provide
policy relevant information that could be used to judge the efficiency and effectiveness of
various programs. Relevant cost comparisons could be made that would help instill an
appropriate sense of cost consciousness in higher education, while at the same time striving
to improve its quality and relevance.



- 104 -                                       Attachment
VARIABL      scSRIMON
---- --- ------------- - -- -- --- - -- -- - -- ---- oe........
laZAJUT   log (gross monthly salary (lase monchl/CPZ)
poorhh   1 if housenold is poor. 0 otherwise
male   I if male. 0 otherwise
married   1 ii marrzed. 0 ocherwise
gypsy   1 if gypsy. 0 otherwise
oeth=c,  1 if german. or hungarian or ocher ethnsc background. 0 ocherwise
migranc   1 If ever migraced from piace of birth. 0 otherwise
age   age in years
yrue-d   years of *chool attendance (inc. repea-ed yearsh
exper   years of labor markec (work) experience
exper2   exper exper/100
tenure   years of work at current firm
tmnures   tenureltem-re/lo0 
educi  I  if no studies and cannot read or wrice. 0 otherwise
educ2    . if no studies but can read or write. 0 otherwise
oduc3 ,1 if completed primary school. 0 otherwise
educ4   I if compleced recondary school cycle I, 0 otherwise
*ducS   1 if compleced secondary *chool cycle IX. 0 otherwise
educE   1 if completed professional studies, 0 otherwise
educ7   1 if completed cechnical studies & apprenticeship. 0 otherwise
educa * 1 if completed cechnical training for foremen cycle 1.. 0 otherwise
educ9   I if completed posc-secondary studies. 0 otherwxse
educlO   Ii f compleced 3-yr college. 0 otherwise
educli   I i  completed 4-yr college. 0 otherwise
ageI419   I if 14'.age-19. 0 otherwse
ageaO24   I if 204.age -24. 0 otherwise
AgO2529   2 1if 25<.age".29  0 otherwise
ag03034    I if 30--agqe-34. 0 otherwise
age353    : if 35.4-age39. 0 otherwise
age4044   1 if 404.ag90.44  0 otherwise
ag*4549 '  if 45<.aqie.4s. 0 otherwLse
ageSOS  ' 1if S04.age.54. 0 otherwise
ageSSo  1 i fag-.55. 0 otherwise
ifoick   I if got sick during lasc month. 0 otherwise
public     i if the firm is seace-owned, 0 otherwise
prLVace   1 if the firm is privately owned. 0 otherwise
mixed     i if the firm is of mixed (private L public) ownership.
coop   1 if the firm is a coop. 0 otherwise
white   ! if white-collar occupacton. 0 otherwise
blue  1 If blue-collar occupacion. 0 otherwi-e
indusl   I lf induecry cod-.I  (agriculcursI. 0 otherwise
indus2   I if induatru cod-.2 (mining)
indus    I if industry code.3 (processingq
Lndu*4   2 if irduscry code-4 (puolic ut:!itiesk
indus  , iif induscry code-S (conscruccioni
Lndu&e    : if industry code.S (recaxl/hotel& restaurant)
&ndus7   1 if industry code.7 (cranaporcjco,municacions)
indueas , :zf industry codes& (finance1.
iAdus IF   iif induscr- eoie.9 a r2al escaze)
indusio   1 if intustryr code.1O (public adamn)
dusll  1 Iif industry code-Il (educacton)
ndueAl2   I if industry code.12 (health and social assiet)
LndusI3   If if industry code.l3 (social 5 personal s*rv)
indu&i1    I if induscry codetlS (international org)
nad ale Inumber of adult males i..l4 yrr old) in the household
nadfeml   number of adult females (.14 yro old) in the heouhold
nahild   number of children (Ic4 yr- old) in the household
revgtrd   1 if regAstered in the labor office. 0 otherwise
ges ne    1 if get unemployment benefits or supporting allowanes. 0 otherwAis
getp-n  I if got pension. 0 orherwise
lo.kjob j 1 if currently looking for a job. 0 otherwise
avail    1 if available to start working within a weeks. 0 otherwise
rural   1 if rural area. 0 otherwise (urban)
reyl   1 if St region. 0 otherwise
rqgl   1 if SW region. 0 otherwise
reg3 1 if NW region. 0 otherwise
reqg    1 if NE regxon. 0 otherwise
regS   1 1  Sucharesct  0 otherwise



Attachment
- 105 -                                    Regression 
IV..a DETrRX83NANTS OF MONT8LY EARNINGS
(g) : USING DUSMY VARIABLES FOR EDUCATION LEVEL INSTEAD OF
TYARS OF YEARS OF SCHOOLING (S)
(male- and females pooled and incl. type of ownership,
iAdustry aDd white/blue collar dumies)
OLS estimates
Number of obh  -   19858
F) 50, 19807) -  160.20
Prob > F      -  0.0000
R-equared     -  0.2880
Adj R-aquared =  0.2862
Root MSE      -  .41975
---------------------------------------------------
lnEARN I      Coef.   Std. Err.         t     P>ItI
-----_--_--___-__----------------------------------
educ4 1   .0420565   .0190049        2.213   0.027
educs     .1719756   .0201301        8.543   0.000
educ6     .1364151   .0200403        6.807   0.000
educ7     .0733003   .0259505        2.825   0.005
educ8 |   .2678637   .0251726       10.641   0.000
eduC9     .2926688   .0249104       11.749   0.000
educlo     .4515946   .0296587       15.226   0.000
educll     .5340114   .0228335       23.387   0.000
exper |    .009672   .0011075        8.733   0.000
exper2 j   .0219979   .0025112       -8.760   0.000
tenure     .0101602   .0012441        8.167   0.000
tenure2     -.015747   .0037285       -4.223   0.000
private     .0250699   .0116594        2.150   0.032
mixed     .0466472   .0223548        2.087   0.037
ocop    -.2595748   .0240571    -10.790   0.000
white     .0666835   .0248048        2.688   0.007
blue |   .0009918   .0238039        0.042   0.967
migrant       .056698   .0065165       8.701   0.000
male     .1209105   .0058368       13.683   0.000
head     .0918368   .0083654       10.978   0.000
hungar    -.0182375   .0127331       -1.432   0.152
oethnic2    -.0726629   .0249927       -2.907   0.004
married      .0530471     .00783       6.775   0.000
rural    -.0401479   .0076023       -5.281   0.000
indue2 !   .5414238   .0181247      29.872   0.000
indus3     .0765894   .0128524        5.959   0.000
indus4     .3485944   .0192637       18.096   0.000
induu5     .1246621   .0161915        7.699   0.000
indue6    -.0818902   .0166777       -4.910   0.000
indus7      .182484   .0152148      11.994   0.000
indusa     .1992164   .0252229       7.898   0.000
indus9    -.0254048   .0424978       -0.598   0.550
indualO      .106242   .0178119        5.965   0.000
indumll    -.0978527   .0173174       -5.651   0.000
induul2    -.0393063   .0192571       -2.041   0.041
indus13    -.0680549   .0190088       -3.580   0.000
indus14    -.2761258    .079192       -3.487   0.000
induils     .2488297   .13348S8        1.864   0.062
regl     .0617821   .0107259        5.760   0.000
reg2     .0263418   .0108833        2.420   0.016
reg3     .0085941   .0109481        0.785   0.432
reg4     .0275904   .0110922       2.487   0.013
monthS     .0230182   .0123996        1.856   0.063
month6     .0653029   .0126128        5.178   0.000
month7     .0618467   .0125496        4.928   0.000
montha     .0878449   .0126158        6.963   0.000
mCnth9     .1015107   .0125668        8.078   0.000
monthio     .0864737   .0125149        6.910   0.000
manthll     .1118256   .0125958        8.878   0.000
maothu2     .1737578   .0126883       13.694   0.000
cons     11.04207   .0318213    347.002   0.000
--_----------------------------------_-------------



Attachment
- 106 -                                    Regression 2
IV.A: DETZRMINANSS OF MONTHLY EARNINGS
(h): DIFPERENCES IN TRE MARGnOaL RATE OF RETCN TO SCHOOLING
BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE FIRMS USING DU)0Y VARIABLES FOR EDUCLTION LSVDL INETEAD OF
YEARS OF YEARS OF SCHOOLING (Sl
(m&les and females pooled and inol. type of ownership,
industry and white/blue collar dummies)
OLS estimates
Number of obs -   19858
F( 64. 19793) =  127.13
Prob > F       *  0.0000
R-oquared      .  0.2913
Adj R-equared -  0.2890
Root MSE       -   .4189
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
lnEARN I       Coef.   Std. Err.         t      P,|t
educ4      .0568199   .0198678        2.860   0.004
educ5 }   .1773182    .0211228        8.395   0.000
educ6      .1436135    .0209716       6.848   0.000
educ7      .0865295    .0274954       3.147   0.002
educa      .2664667   .0262579       10.148   0.000
educg9     .2944817   .0259684       11.340   0.000
educlO !   .4404123    .0308794       14.262   0.000
educll      .5395444     .023961      22.518   0.000
exper      .0071847   .0011881        6.047   0.000
exper2    -.0171705    .0026737       -6.422   0.000
tenure      .0117739   .0013209        8.913   0.000
tenure2    -.0188245      .003893      -4.835   0.000
white      .0346941   .0258256        1.343   0.179
blue      - .024322    .024807      -0.980   0.327
private    -.2825018    .0939838        -3.006   0.003
mixed 1   .0469329   .0223151         2.103   0.035
coop    - .2578456    .0240217    -10.734   0.000
educ4pr j  -.1482465   .0662418        -2.238   0.025
educ5pr      -.071732     .067996      -1.055   0.291
educ6pr    - .0766742    .0685436      -1.119   0.263
educ7pr    - .1249651      .08276      -1.510   0.131
educe8pr     .0148888    .0887874       0.168   0.867
educ9pr      .0085454    .0908895       0.094   0.925
educlOpr      .1395807   .1075664        1.298   0.194
educllpr    -.0760223    .0745452       -1.020   0.308
exppr      .0167035     .003075       5.432   0.000
exp2pr ,  -.0353711   .0075633        -4.677   0.000
tenpr    - .0030473   .0044318       -0.688   0.492
ten2pr 1  -.0050912      .016716      -0.305   0.761
whitepr      .3229272   .0746853        4.324   0.000
bluepr      .2514724    .0729323       3.448   0.000
migrant 1    .056549   .0065067         8.691   0.000
male      .1210161   .0088262       13.711   0.000
head      .0898852    .0083538      10.760   0.000
hungar    -.0173242   .0127133        -1.363   0.173
oethnic2    - .0702948     .024969      -2.815   0.005
married      .0496106   .0078344        6.332   0.000
ruralj  -.0401678    .0075924       -5.291   0.000
indue2 1   .5390497   .0181038        29.776   0.000
indue3      .0744609   .0128458        5.797   0.000
indus4      .3475341   .0192322       18.070   0.000
indueS      .1228028    .0161748       7.592   0.000
indue6    -.0937226   .0169302        -5.536   0.000
indue7      .1810907   .0152015       11.913   0.000
indusa       .199536    .0251797       7.924   0.000
indus9    -.0206794    .0425101       -0.486   0.627
induslO      .1104274   .0177964        6.205   0.000
indusll    -.0916772    .0173221       -5.292   0.000
indue12    - .0377656    .0192368      -1.963   0.050
indus13    -.0704058    .0189864       -3.708   0.000
induwl4 f   -.228055    .0794165       -2.872   0.004
induels      .2351377   .1333407        1.763   0.078
regl      .0618374     .010711       5.773   0.000
reg2      .0260241   .0108667        2.395   0.017
reg3      .0093747   .0109337        0.857   0.391
reg4      .0290554   .0110799        2.622   0.009
monthS      .0230078   .0123792        1.859   0.063
month6      .0669382   .0125932        5.315   0.000
month7      .0627285   .0125303        5.006   0.000
montha      .0875501   .0125961        6.9S1   0.000
month9      .1013926   .0125467        8.081   0.000



Attachment
- 107 -                                     Regression 2
monthlO      .08835S2   .0124956        7.071   0.000
monthll      .1121043   .0125789        8.912   0.000
monthl2 !   .1743489    .012667        13.764   0.000
_cons     11.07722   .0331718    333.935   0.000



- 108 -
ATTACHMENT: EARNINGS
PROJECTIONS
RATE OF RETURN ESTIMATION (earnings and cost data in Romanian Lei)
Opportunity
Cost Benefit   Direct       Costs & Sec    Years of    University
Stream        Costs        Earnings        Work        Earnings
-2391043      -870000       -1521043              1
-2405531      -870000       -1535531              2
-2419475      -870000       -1549475              3
-2432858      -870000       -1562858              4
771943                    -1575663              5      2347606
782093                    -1587874              6      2369967
792013                    -1599476              7      2391489
801690                    -1610454              8      2412144
811114                    -1620794              9      2431908
820272                    -1630483             10      2450755
829154                    -1639508             11      2468661
837747                    -1647858             12      2485605
846042                    -1655522             13      2501564
854028                    -1662489             14      2516518
861695                    -1668752             15      2530447
869033                    -1674302             16      2543335
876033                    -1679130             17      2555163
882685                    -1683233             18      2565917
888981                    -1686602             19      2575583
894913                    -1689236             20      2584149
900473                    -1691129             21      2591602
905654                    -1692279             22      2597933
910449                    -1692685             23      2603134
914851                    -1692347             24      2607198
918856                    -1691264             25      2610120
922457                    -1689438             26      2611895
925650                    -1686872             27      2612522
928430                    -1683569             28      2612000
930795                    -1679534            29       2610329
932740                    -1674770             30      2607511
934264                    -1669286            31       2603551
935365                    -1663088            32       2598453
936040                    -1656184            33       2592224
936289                    -1648583             34      2584872
936113                    -1640295             35      2576408
935511                    -1631331             36      2566841
934484                    -1621702             37      2556185
933034                    -1611421             38      2544454
931162                    -1600500             39      2531662
928872                    -1588954            40       2517827
926167                    -1576798            41       2502965
923051                    -1564046            42       2487097
919527                    -1550715            43       2470242
915601                    -1536821            44       2452422
911278                    -1522382            45       2433660
0.0750 IRR (Internal Rate of Return)



- 109 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 17
CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR SUB-PROJECT SELECTION
COMPONENT H - UNDERGRADUATE AND CONTIPNUNG EDUCATION
1. Obiective
1.1    To support program development for undergraduate and continuing education in fields of high
student and labor market demand. The sub-component will also support innovations in teaching methods,
syllabi and/or assessment as well as new approaches to academic management.
2. Implementin,e Agencv
2.1    The sub-component will be implemented by the National Higher Education Financing Council in
collaboration with the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation.
3. Eligibility
3.1    All higher education institutions accredited to award undergraduate degrees, diplomas and
certificates may submit applications.
3.2    Proposals must be judged by the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation to be
compatible with the mission of the applying institution(s) and their development strategies in conformity with
the Government higher education reform program.
4. Allowable Costs
4.1    Project funding may be used for equipment and library materials, consumables, printing and
duplication of teaching and experimental materials, locally funded specialist services, teaching and
administrative staff development and training, and minor building rehabilitation.
4.2    Funding will be provided for periods ranging from one to three years, with extension in exceptional
cases for one to two years, subject to annual review of progress in achieving agreed objectives.
5. Selection Criteria
5.1    General criteria
Applications are assessed on the basis of rationale, institutional capacity and academic merit. Among the
elements considered are:
a.     Relevance or significance:
-      To what extent does the proposal respond to national priorities of the HE reform?
-      How and to what extent does the programn curriculum respond to labor market
demand, as indicated by employment and student demand?
-      Relationship of proposals to long term development priorities established by the
HE Councils
-      To what extent does the project support important regional development
requirements?



- 110 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 17
To what extent is the proposal articulated with the institutional development plan?
To what extent does the program complement any similar programs at other
institutions?
b.      Effectiveness:
-      To what extent is there a sound project design that would achieve objectives, i.e.
does the proposal clearly specify objectives, means of achievement and likely
benefits?
-      Degree of originality and expected contribution; the innovativeness of proposed
teaching methods;
-      Technical adequacy of the curricula and comparability with practices of leading
European and North American institutions;
-       Degree of proposed collaboration among institutions;
-      Rigor of student selection procedures and criteria;
-      Validity of testing/examination procedures.
c. Feasibility:
-      To what extent is the program likely to be implemented as proposed?
-      Human resource capability: qualifications of teaching staff; originality and quality
of previous work;
-      Institutional: capacity of the institution to carry out the grant;
-      to what extent is the proposal supported by twinning or other external support?
-      forecast numbers of students and the absorptive capacity of the institution; evidence
of previous successful experience in developing such programs with external support
from TEMPUS or other sources;
-      impact on physical plant;
-      sustainability after completion of grant funding
-      Financial: -assurances on other sources of financing
-      Scheduling: to what extent is the implementation schedule realistic?
d. Efficiency:
-       Are the costs reasonable?
-      Are the line items in the proposed budget appropriate?
-      Relationship of budget to NHEFC cost norms;
-      Cost savings owing to co-financing;
-       Are the unit costs projected reasonable?
-      To what extent is the proposal likely to lower unit costs and produce measurable
benefits?
5.2 Priority criteria
Proposals responding to the priorities of the Government's higher education reform policy,
and which are closely articulated with the academic and budgetary plans of the applicant's
institution;
Proposals with multiple sources of financing;
Proposals involving collaboration between institutions; and



- 111 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 17
Joint proposals by institutions serving well defined regional needs.
Priority would be given to programs in economics, management and business administration, and law.
6. Guidelines for Preparation of Proposals
6.1    Applicants must provide a brief description of the innovation to be supported, summarizing its
objectives, structure and organization, and entry and graduation requirements. Applications should also
present a program rationale providing evidence of student demand, likely employment opportunities,
availability of further or complementary studies, an assessment of the unit's academic and administrative
capacity to offer the program, curriculum vitae of the principal academic staff involved, a statement of the
institution's academic reform strategy identifying programmatic priorities, and a comparison of the activity to
similar programs offered by other institutions indicating what benefits would be achieved by funding the
proposed activity. Results of any pilot projects should be presented, including lessons learned and corrective
actions taken or to be implemented.
6.2    A detailed budget should be given describing all program development and pilot costs and the
proportion of first year costs for which funding is requested. It must include justification of any salary,
equipment or travel costs, and indicate clearly all institutional funding and any external funding for the
activity to be supported, as well as any revenues to be generated.
7. Institutional Assessment of Program Development Provosals
7.1    The chief administrative officer of each eligible institution publicizes the program and distributes
forms and explanatory material, receives applications, and organizes and supervises the internal review of
proposals. This officer may also be designated the authorized representative of the institution's rector who
will certify applications forwarded to the National Higher Education Financing Council.
7.2    Applicants must submit copies of their applications and supporting documentation in sufficient
numbers for all members of the institution's review committees and to the chief administrative officer (or
equivalent) of their institution. The original application form must be signed by the applicant's department
head and dean as well as by the applicant.
7.3    All proposals should be reviewed, recommended and ranked by the appropriate faculty and
institutional academic policy and budgetary planning committees.
7.4    The chief administrative officer ensures each recommended application is signed by the rector or
his/her representative, and certifies that the review committees have observed proper procedures for
evaluating proposals. The officer then submits to the National Higher Education Financing Council all
recommended applications (each one in sufficient copies for the Council's Selection Committees), a copy of
the reports of institutional review committees, certification that the required institutional procedures have
been followed. A list of all members of review committees should also be submitted together with
documents describing the institution's academic and budgetary plans and priorities.
8. Responsibilities of National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation
8.1     Receives institutional proposals from National Higher Education Financing Council.
8.2    The National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation reviews the proposals for
compatibility with the institution's mission and capacity, as well as with respect to national accreditation
standards.



- 112 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 17
8.3    If a new program is proposed, the relevant commission arranges for a review to establish eligibility
for provisional authorization.
9. Responsibilities of National Higher Education Financing Council
9.1    Receives recommendations of the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation, and
refers the reports to a Committee on Programs appointed by the National Higher Education Financing
Council on the recommendation of the Council's Executive Committee and President.
9.2    The Committee on Programs reviews institutional submissions and ranks them with respect to
financial sustainability, priorities established for development of the higher education system as a whole,
reflecting future student demand and labor market needs, and in regard to system level efficiency of resource
utilization.
9.3    Institutional submissions requiring capital investments related to program proposals are
simultaneously reviewed by a Capital Grants Committee, appointed by the National Higher Education
Financing Council on the recommendation of the Council's Executive Committee and President.
9.4    The Capital Grants Conmmittee's recommendations take into account the capital investment plans as
well as the facilities master plans prepared by the applying institutions.
9.5    The reports of the Capital Grants Committee are returned to the Committee on Programs which
prepares a consolidated set of funding recommendations for review by the Executive Committee,
consideration by the Council and decision by the Minister of Education.
10. Announcement of Proaram Grants and Preparation of Grant Agreements
10.1    On receipt of the Minister's approval of recommendations, notifications of awards and grant
agreements are sent to applicants, with copies to the Rector, chief administrative officer, and head of
financial services of the institution. A press release summarizing the awards made and indicating a contact
for further information will be distributed to the media.
10.2   The grant agreement prepared by the National Higher Education Financing Council will usually
stipulate program development "benchmarks" and enrollment targets to be achieved, in addition to
institutional financing commitments.
11. Responsibilities of Proiect Coordination Unit
11.1   The Project Coordination Unit receives and reviews grant agreements approved by the Minister and
signed by the authorized institutional representative, and makes periodic reports to the Bank.
11.2   The Unit advises institutions on procurement procedures, receives procurement requests, reviews
them for correspondence with Bank and Government policies and authorizes these requests.
11.3   The Unit may assist institutions with procurement, particularly in the case of items requiring
international competitive bidding.
11.4   The Unit prepares disbursement requisitions for execution by the budget offices of the Ministry of
Education according to the terms and conditions of the grant agreements.
11.5   The Unit requests, receives and reviews interim and final financial and substantive reports from



- 113 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 17
institutions according to the monitoring schedule specified in the grant agreements.
12. Responsibilities of Ministry of Education
12.1   Receives payment requisitions from the Project Co-ordination Unit, and verifies them for
completeness.
12.2   On receipt of duly completed requisitions for interim and final payments, issues payments.
12.3   Records all transactions according to agreed procedures, and reports them quarterly and annually to
the Minister and the Project Co-ordination Unit.
13. Responsibilities of Recipient Institutions
13.1    Designates a chief administrative officer to be responsible for all aspects of the program at the
institution.
13.2   Ensures complete information and application forms are widely publicized and available, and that
the intrmal review processes are open, transparent and competitive.
13.3   Ensures that all terms and conditions of grant agreements are complied with in a prompt and
efficient manner.
13.4   Maintains complete records of the activity supported and periodically monitor progress in achieving
program objectives.
13.5   Ensures the completion and submission of interim and final substantive and financial reports, receipt
of satisfactory final reports being a condition of disbursement of the last financial installment.
14. Monitoring and Auditing
14.1   The National Higher Education Financing Council monitors outcomes of program grants,
particularly: a) enrollment, retention and completion rates; b) unit costs and costs per graduate; c)
sustainability from institutional and self financing; and d) employment and earnings of graduates.
14.2   Programs developed with support from the National Higher Education Financing Council will be
subject to evaluation by the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation as well as to
mandated periodic quality review by the recipient institutions.
14.3   The National Higher Education Financing Council also reviews periodic financial reports from
recipients for compliance with terms and conditions of grant agreements as well as with procurement,
disbursement and accounting procedures stipulated by the loan agreement.
COMPONENT III - POSTGRADUATE EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
1. Obiective
1.1    The overall objective of this component is to develop the next generation of academic staff needed
to sustain and deepen higher education reform and prepare a cadre of professionals with advanced training



- 114 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 17
in the new fields required by a market economy.
2. Implementine Agency
2.1    Because postgraduate programs combine teaching and research activities, the National University
Research Council will implement this component in collaboration with the National Council on Accreditation
and Academic Evaluation, the National Council on Attestation of Academic Titles and Decrees, and the
National Higher Education Financing Council.
2.2    The National University Research Council will make program grants to institutions, mainly for
doctoral studies, and in exceptional cases, for Master's programs. These grants will in most cases lead to
programs that will be sustained by core financing allocated through a formula by the National Higher
Education Financing Council, giving funding priority to expanding postgraduate enrollments and
strengthening second and third cycle programs.
2.3    The National University Research Council will also be responsible for making grants for research
related training to individuals and teams of principal investigators of exceptional merit. The Council will
provide such support through funding a major research grants program and a program supporting the
establishment of multi-user facilities centers for advanced training. These programns will facilitate
concentration of scarce research funding on centers of excellence especially for doctoral training.
A. Postgraduate Program Development
3. Obiective
3.1    Sub-projects would support development and strengthening of Master's and especially doctoral
studies through provision of critical instructional and research inputs and collaboration with domestic and
foreign institutions.
4. Eligibility
4.1    Accredited higher education institutions whose postgraduate programs have been authorized by the
National Council for Accreditation and Academic Evaluation and whose procedures for awarding doctoral
degrees are in conformity with the standards established by the National Council for the Attestation of
Academic Titles and Degrees.
4.2    Proposals for new postgraduate programs must be submitted to the National Council for
Accreditation and Academic Evaluation for authorization and funding is contingent on the Council's approval
of such requests.
5. Allowable Costs
5.1    The following costs are eligible for support: costs of equipment and library materials; consumables;
printing and duplication of teaching materials; locally funded specialist services; teaching and administrative
staff development; and minor building rehabilitation.
5.2    Funding will be provided for periods ranging from one to three years, with extensions in exceptional
cases for one to two years, subject to annual reviews of progress in achieving agreed objectives.



- 115 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 17
6. Selection Criteria
6.1 General criteria
Applications are assessed on the basis of rationale for support, institutional capacity and academic merit.
Among
the elements considered are:
a.      Relevance or significance:
-      To what extent does the proposal respond to the long term developmental priorities
established by the NHEFC for the higher education system? -
-      How and to what extent does the program curriculum respond to labor market
demand, as indicated by employment and student demand?
-      Relationship of proposals to long term development priorities established by the
Higher Education Councils
-      To what extent does the project support important regional development
requirements?
-      To what extent is the proposal articulated with the institutional development plan?
-      To what extent does the program complement any similar programs at other
institutions?
b.      Effectiveness:
-      To what extent is there a sound project design that would achieve objectives, i.e. are
objectives clearly specified, means of achievement and likely benefits?
-      Degree of originality and expected contribution; the innovativeness of proposed
teaching methods;
-      Technical adequacy of the curricula and comparability to practices of leading
European and North American institutions;
-      Degree of proposed collaboration among institutions;
-      Rigor of student selection procedures and criteria;
-      Validity of testing/examination procedures.
c.      Feasibility:
-      To what extent is the program likely to be implemented as proposed?
-      Human resource capability: qualifications of teaching staff; originality and quality
of previous work;
-      Institutional: capacity of the institution to carry out the grant;
-      to what extent is the proposal supported by twinning or other external support?
-      forecast numbers of students and the absorptive capacity of the institution;
-      impact on physical plant;
-      sustainability after completion of grant funding
-      Financial: -assurances on other sources of financing
-      Scheduling: to what extent is the implementation schedule realistic?
d.      Efficiency:



- 116 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 17
-       Are the costs reasonable?
-       Are the line items in the proposed budget appropriate?
-       Relationship of budget to NHEFC cost norms;
-       Cost savings owing to co-financing;
-       Are the unit costs projected reasonable?
-       To what extent is the proposal likely to lower unit costs and produce measurable
benefits?
Priority would be given to development of advanced training in the applied social sciences, the professions,
and also to new course as well as research based programs in technical fields designed to broaden and raise
students' expertise to the highest international standards.
6.2 Priority criteria
-       Proposals which support well defined research and training missions of the sponsoring
institution;
-       Proposals to establish or expand doctoral training in fields of high student demand at the
undergraduate level where staffing needs are greatest;
-       Proposals to establish or strengthen inter-disciplinary studies or programs, involving
collaboration of two or more academic units;
-       Joint proposals to strengthen collaboration between higher education and research
institutions in advanced scientific training; and
-       Proposals which build on twinning or other formal collaborations with foreign higher
education institutions supported by bi or multi-lateral funding.
Priority would be given to development of advanced training in the applied social sciences, the
professions, and also to new course as well as research based programs in technical fields designed
to broaden and raise students' expertise to the highest international standards.
7. Guidelines for Preparation of Proposals
7.1     Applicants must provide a brief summary of the activities to be supported, summarizing the
objectives, scope of work to be carried out, beneficiaries and expected outcomes. Proposals to support new
programs should describe: a) the structure and organization of coursework; b) entry and graduation
requirements; c) projected enrollment; d) core staff and their qualifications; e) available instructional
facilities, library holdings, and research equipment; and f) future staffing and facilities requirements.
7.2     All proposals should also present a program rationale providing data on student demand and likely
employment opportunities for graduates, availability of further or complementary studies and/or research
training, evidence of the unit's capacity to offer the proposed program or studies, and a comparison to
similar offerings at other institutions indicating what benefits would be achieved by supporting the proposed
program or activity.
7.3     Proposals should be accompanied by a comprehensive multi-year budget describing all investment
and recurrent costs associated with the proposed program or activity, and the sources of financing, including
institutional, private, and/or foreign funding--obtained or anticipated--as well as a detailed statement of the
funds requested.



- 117 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 17
8. Institutional Assessment of Proposals
8.1    The chief administrative officer of each eligible institution receives applications, and organizes and
supervises the internal review of proposals.
8.2    The original application form must be signed by the applicant's department head and dean as well as
by the applicant.
8.3    All proposals should be reviewed, recommended and ranked by the appropriate faculty and
institutional academic policy and budgetary planning committees.
8.4    The chief administrative officer ensures that each recommended application is signed by the rector
or his/her representative, and certifies that the review committees have observed proper procedures for
evaluating proposals.
9. Resvonsibilities of the National Councils on Accreditation, Attestation of Academic Titles, and Higher
Education Financing
9.1    Disciplinary commissions of the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation review
new program proposals for compatibility with national guidelines for development of postgraduate programs.
9.2    The National Council on Attestation of Academic Titles and Degrees reviews all proposals involving
doctoral programs or doctoral studies for adherence to national standards relating to the requirements of the
doctoral degree, including policies pertaining to the qualifications of staff authorized to guide doctoral
students and the examination of dissertation research.
9.3    The National Higher Education Financing Council receives proposals vetted by the councils on
accreditation and attestation of academic titles, and evaluates them on the basis of financial feasibility,
institutional capability, and national need.
10. ResDonsibilities of the National University Research Council
10.1    Disciplinary panels of the National University Research Council, receive all proposals which have
been favorably recommended by the other councils, and review, score and rank them for funding according
to academic merit and the research credentials of core staff.
10.2   The Council's secretariat gives each panel a preliminary estimate of the funds available for
allocation, reflecting the distribution of requests, previous budget commitments, and priorities established by
the Council.
10.3   The Council's secretariat normalizes scores given by the panels, prepares a consolidated ranking of
proposals to the Council, and establishes a threshold score based on available funding.
10.4   The Council may adjust this threshold and/or adjust the "cut-off"scores recommended for particular
panels, and prepares a consolidated recommendation for decision by the Minister of Education.
10.5   On receipt of the Minister's approval of recommendations, the Council makes a public
announcement of awards, and prepares grant agreements which will usually stipulate program development
'benchmarks' and enrollment targets to be achieved, in addition to institutional financing commitments.
11. Grant Disbursement, Revorting. Monitorinz and Auditing



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 17
11.1    The Project Coordination Unit receives and reviews grant agreements approved by the Minister and
signed by the authorized institutional representatives, and makes periodic reports to the Bank.
11.2   The Unit advises institutions on procurement procedures, receives procurement requests, reviews
and authorizes disbursement by the budget office of the Ministry of Education according to the terms and
conditions of the grant agreements.
11.3   The recipient institution shall maintain complete records of the activity or program supported, and
ensure submission of interim and final substantive and financial reports to the National University Research
Council according to the monitoring schedule specified in the grant agreements.
11.4   The National University Research Council audits the use of grant funds and forwards substantive
and financial reports to the Project Co-ordination Unit for review and approval.
11.5    Receipt of a satisfactory final substantive and financial report is required for release of the last
financial installment.
11.6   Postgraduate programs supported by the National University Research Council shall be subject to
evaluation by the National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation as well as to mandated
periodic quality review by the recipient institution.
11.7   The National University Research Council monitors the outcomes of program grants, particularly,
the output and placement of doctoral students in positions in Romanian higher education and research
institutions.
3. Major Research Awards
12. Obiective
12.1    The objective is to support staff projects which provide research training for Master's and doctoral
students in order to improve the quality and increase the output of postgraduate programs.
13. Eliaibility
13.1    All academic staff working in accredited higher education institutions.
13.2   Staff may apply for support individuallyor as members of research teams.
13.3    Research team members may be affiliated to institutes of the Romanian Academy or other public
research institutions engaged in collaborative studies with staff or students in an accredited higher education
institution.
14. Allowable Costs
14.1   Funding would be provided to purchase of equipment and consumables, acquisition of scientific
documentation, for professional travel, locally funded specialist services (including research assistants,
technicians, and principal investigators), and costs of minor building rehabilitation.
14.2   Funding would be granted for projects of between one to three years in duration, subject to annual
review of progress in achieving agreed objectives.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 17
15. Selection Criteria
15.1    General criteria
Priority will be given to proposals which meet the following criteria:
a.       Relevance and significance:
-       To what extent proposals will expand and strengthen the capacity of research units
and researchers who are active in postgraduate training;
-       Potential contribution to training highly qualified personnel in fields where staffing
needs are greatest in the higher education system, and the actual and potential
contribution of the proposed research program to strengthening national and
foreign scientific cooperation and collaboration;
-       To what extent proposals will support expansion of training in fields and at
institutions of importance to regional development where economic opportunities
can be demonstrated.
b.      Effectiveness:
-       Research achievements of the principal investigators;
-       Policies governing access, and in particular, access for Master's and doctoral
students,
-       Potential for developing effective research networks within and outside the recipient
institution;
-       Appropriateness of and demand for the equipment or facility.
c.      Feasibility:
-       Demonstrated  success of principal investigators in generating research funding,
-       Capacity of principal investigators to give effective support to a network of research
activities within and outside the recipient institution;
-       Proposals which will build on the comparative advantage of particular units and
institutions in the national context of postgraduate training and research.
d. Efficiency:
The extent of multiple sources of financing;
Potential for using the equipment or facility beyond the life of the current and
proposed projects.
15.2    Priority criteria:
Principal investigators with demonstrated scientific accomplishments;
Proposals supporting well defined research tasks for Master's and doctoral students leading
to the fulfillment of their thesis requirements;



- 120 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 17
Requests that will strengthen national and particularly foreign scientific collaboration in
advanced training; and
-       Projects that will be co-financed from domestic or foreign research funding bodies.
The distribution of funding among fields would depend on, in addition to the quality of proposals and the
extent of selectivity, priorities established by the National University Research Council reflecting the
Government's overall economic reform strategy.
16. Guidelines for Preparation of Proposals
16.1    Applicants must furnish a project proposal describing the scope and objectives of the study or
studies to be carried out, its theoretical or practical significance, a summary of related research, the
methodology and instrumentation to be employed, the plan of work, and an indication of the roles and
responsibilities of principal investigators and all postgraduate students involved in the activity.
16.2    Principal investigators should supply a curriculum vitae as well as a comprehensive list of all funded
research, postgraduate students supervised, and publications in collaboration with present and former
students and collaborators.
16.3    Project budgets should be submitted with a detailed justification of requests
particularly for funds to acquire scientific equipment and professional travel, and sources and amounts of
non-institutional co-financing likely or already obtained.
17. Responsibilities of Sponsoring Institution
17.1    Proposals and project budgets should be authorized by the research grants officer of the institution
sponsoring the project.
17.2    The sponsoring institution agrees to provide specialized facilities and services needed to successfully
complete the proposed project, and any resources for normal operating or maintenance expenses.
17.3    The sponsoring institution ensures that the proposed research activities conform to accepted ethical
guidelines relating to research with human or animal subjects and/or research posing health or
environmental hazards.
17.4    Review is the responsibility of institutional ethnics review committees established to implement
guidelines prepared by the National University Research Council.
17.5    The sponsoring institution agrees to all terms and conditions of grant agreements, and ensures that
these are complied with in a prompt and efficient manner.
17.6    The sponsoring institution maintains all financial records and ensures completion and submission of
interim and final substantive and financial reports, receipt of a satisfactory final report being a condition of
disbursement of the last financial installment.
18. Responsibilities of the National University Research Council
18.1    Each disciplinary panel identifies up to three external assessors or reviewers for the proposals
referred to it.



- 121 -
ANNEX 5
Page 13 of 17
18.2   Panels review, score, rank and make recommendations for funding proposals according to academic
merit, taking into account assessors reports and available resources. Importance will be given to: a) past
academic results as demonstrated by publications, research awards, students graduated, and professional
distinctions of the principal investigators; b) the proposed project's potential contribution to knowledge; and
c) especially to how the project would strengthen postgraduate training capacity.
18.3   The Council shall ensure that there shall be no conflict of interest in evaluating proposals.
A member of the Council, a selection panel, or an assessor is in a conflict of interest when the member:
-      is the applicant, co-applicant or co-signer of a proposal; or
-      is from the same institution/institute  or belongs to the same research unit as the applicant;
or
-      has an administrative or family link with the applicant (e.g., head of the department or unit,
dean of the faculty, etc.); or
-      is or has been recently involved in a dispute with the applicant or an important member of
the applicant's team; or
-      is or has been the supervisor of the applicant when the applicant was a student.
18.4   The Council's secretariat normalizes the results of the evaluations of the various panels and prepares
a consolidated ranking of projects recommended for approval by the Council.
18.5   The Council makes final recommendations on research awards to the Minister of Education, taking
into account the number, distribution and quality of requests, available resources, and postgraduate training
priorities for the higher education system reflecting present and future staffing needs.
18.6    On notification Ministerial approval of its recommendations, the Council makes a public
announcement of the results of research competitions and prepares grant agreements stipulating the terms
and conditions of awards, including "benchmarks" for the output of Master's and doctoral graduates.
18.7   The Council advises the Project Co-ordination Unit on procurement and also disbursement of
budgetary requests which will executed by the budget office of the Ministry of Education according to the
terms and conditions of grant agreements, subject to authorization by the Project Co-ordination Unit.
19. Monitoring and Auditing
19.1   The National University Research Council receives and audits all financial reports for conformity to
Government and Bank procedures, prior to their review by the Project Co-ordination Unit.
19.2   The National University Research Council monitors the performance of all major research grants,
especially, publications resulting from funded activities, external research co-financing obtained, the number
of postgraduate students graduated, length of training and placement of graduates, and the growth in the
number of applications for Master's and doctoral studies in the academic and research units involved.
C. Multi-User Centers for Advanced Training
20. Obiective
20.1    The objective is to create centers of excellence in the higher education system by providing resources
to support collaboration among researchers and research groups in advanced scientific training.



- 122 -
ANNEX 5
Page 14 of 17
20.2    The program would stimulate regional training and research capabilities, reducing institutional
duplication, and allowing scarce national resources to be employed more efficiently.
21. Eligibilitv
21.1    All accredited higher education institutions with authorized postgraduate programs in the fields
proposed for support.
21.2    Any institute of the Romanian Academy or other public research institute with the capacity to offer
doctoral studies which has entered into a collaboration with a higher education institution to support
advanced training.
21.3    Any consortium of higher education and research institutions led by one or more of the institutions
which satisfy the above requirements.
22. Allowable Costs
22.1    Funding would be provided for the acquisition of major research equipment/instrumentation,
expansion of faculty or central libraries, to establish or augment existing Internet and interactive
communications capabilities, for necessary building rehabilitation, and to support short term studies at
foreign laboratories and higher education institutions possessing facilities or equipment unavailable in
Romania.
22.2    No funding would be made available to support direct research costs or operations and maintenance
costs associated with these investments as these costs are to be financed by external research funding, private
financing, user charges, and institutional core budget contributions.
23. Selection Criteria
23.1    Program  funding will be concentrated on expanding the capacity of academic and research units,
teams, and institutions which have demonstrated success in generating research funding, are active in
postgraduate training and which can function effectively as a locus for supporting a network of research and
training activities within and outside the recipient institution (s).
Applications are assessed on the basis of rationale, institutional capacity and academic merit. Among the
elements considered are:
a.      Relevance or significance:
-       To what extent does the proposal respond to national priorities of the Higher
Education reform?
-       Relationship of proposals to long term development priorities established by the
NURC.
-       To what extent does the project support important regional development
requirements?
-       To what extent does the proposed center complement activities at other
institutions?
-       To what extent will it contribute to training of highly qualified personnel?
b.      Effectiveness:



- 123 -
ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 17
To what extent is there a sound project design that would achieve objectives, i.e. are
objectives clearly specified, means of achievement and likely benefits?
The originality and significance/quality of previous work of principal investigators,
and the degree of originality and expected contribution;
Degree of proposed collaboration among institutions;
Suitability of theoretical perspectives;
Appropriateness of research strategies or methodology;
Feasibility and soundness of design;
Plans for communication of results.
C.      Feasibility:
-       Demonstrated  success in generating research funding;
-       Extent of contribution to postgraduate training;
-       Potential to function effectively as a locus for supporting a network of research and
training activities within and outside the recipient institution(s);
-       To what extent is the program  likely to be implemented as proposed?
-       Human resource capability: qualifications of principal investigators (originality and
quality of previous work; monographs and refereed publications; published reviews
of applicant's work; research reports and papers; contributions to training highly
qualified personnel; previous competitive grants received; participation in
collaborative research activities/networks; academic awards and distinctions; other
contributions to the field; etc.);
-       Institutional: capacity of the institution to carry out the grant;
-       to what extent is the proposal supported by twinning or other external support?
-       forecast numbers of postgraduate students and the absorptive capacity of the
institution;
-       impact on physical plant;
-        Financial:
assurances on other sources of financing
-    sustainability after completion of grant funding
-       Scheduling: to what extent is the implementation schedule realistic?
d.      Efficiency:
-       Are the costs reasonable?
-       Are the line items in the proposed budget appropriate?
-       Relationship of budget to NURC cost norms;
-       Cost savings owing to co-financing;
-       Are the unit costs projected reasonable?
-       To what extent is the proposal likely to lower unit costs and produce measurable
benefits?
-       Contributions in kind and funding from other sources, including the host institution.
23.2    Priority will be given to requests that:
will foster a tradition of excellence in advanced training and research as well as strengthen
documented inter and intra-institutional collaborations;
will have the maximum  impact on expanding the training capabilities for Master's and



- 124 -
ANNEX 5
Page 16 of 17
doctoral students in fields where staffing needs are greatest in the higher education system;
-       will support expansion of training in fields and at institutions of importance to regional
development where economic opportunities can be demonstrated; and
-       will build on the comparative advantage of particular units and institutions in the national
context of postgraduate training and research.
The distribution of funding among fields would depend on, in addition to the quality of proposals and the
extent of selectivity, priorities established by the National University Research Council reflecting the
Government's overall economic reform strategy.
24. Guidelines for Preparation of Proposals
24.1    Requests should be accompanied by: a) a full justification for the special instrumentation, scientific
documentation or special equipment to be obtained, including information on the availability of similar
equipment and facilities elsewhere in the country, or the lack of thereof; b) a brief description of the
characteristics and requirements of all likely present and future users, their academic units and institutional
affiliations, research needs, and funding sources; c) identification of the facility in which any
equipment/instrumentation will be located, its size, physical characteristics as well as the availability of
related instrumentation and technical and service personnel; d) a proposal indicating how access to the
facilities or equipment to be acquired will be regulated, charges for services and consumables recovered, the
maintenance plan, and procedures for monitoring utilization; and e) a description of how the facility will be
administered, access procedures and how any incremental recurrent costs of acquisitions of equipment or
documentation will be financed.
24.2    Proposals should also contain all relevant supporting documentation such as letters of agreement
among participating academic units and institutions describing arrangements for sharing of facilities and
equipment as well as the associated costs, detailed information on the number and fields of study of
postgraduate students to be involved, the curriculum vitae of core staff, and a development plan for the
center endorsed by the chief administrative officers of the participating institutions.
24.3    Budget requests should include technical specifications and cost estimates for major acquisitions,
including an assessment of options, an assessment of all facilities requirements and rehabilitation needs, and
a multi-year budget plan showing projected operating and investment costs, cost-recovery, institutional and
other sources of financing.
25. Reswonsibilities of Recivient Institutions
25.1    Documentation, instrumentation or special equipment acquired under this program  shall become the
property of the institution which provides the necessary facilities, administrative, technical and support
services for their use.
25.2   In the case of consortia of institutions seeking support, letters of agreement must specify how major
acquisitions will be distributed and describe procedures governing accessibility and cost-sharing.
25.3    Recipient institutions are responsible for all major rehabilitation involving costs above US$25,000
and for all incremental recurrent costs, including costs of consumables, maintenance contracts for scientific
instrumentation, and salaries of technicians.
25.4    Recipient institutions are responsible for ensuring access to specialized facilities as well as for



- 125 -
ANNEX 5
Page 17 of 17
monitoring their utilization and management.
25.5    Recipient institutions shall seek the prior approval of the National University Research Council for
any major changes in the location, configuration of equipment/instrumentation, management, or use of the
specialized facilities supported.
26. Responsibilities of the National University Research Council
26.1    An ad hoc committee of the National University Research Council, composed of representatives of
its disciplinary panels, shall receive funding requests, select external assessors (including foreign experts
where appropriate), review and short list applications, organize site visits to institutions, and make
recommendations to the Council for funding.
26.2    The Council shall make final recommendations to the Minister of Education, taking into account the
postgraduate training capacity development priorities, the training and research needs as well as institutional
capabilities of the different regions, and the objective of balanced regional development of the higher
education system.
26.3    On notification of Ministerial approval of its recommendations, the Council makes a public
announcement of the results of the competition and prepares grant agreements with the recipient institution
(or with the lead institution in a consortium), stipulating the terms and conditions of the award, including
"accessibility"and utilization norms, co-financing targets, as appropriate.
26.4    The Council will assist the recipient institution on the procurement of special
equipment/instrumentation or scientific documentation, and will advise the Project Co-ordination Unit on
procurement matters and also on disbursement requests which will be executed by the budget office of the
Ministry of Education according to the terms and conditions of the grant agreements, subject to
authorization by the Project Co-ordination Unit.
27. Monitoring and Auditing
27.1    The National University Research Council shall make periodic inspections of the centers supported
to ensure compliance with grant agreements, and make recommendations concerning improvement of the
utilization and management of facilities.
27.2    Corrective actions should be taken within three months of the receipt of reports to the chief
administrative officer of the recipient and/or lead institution, or sanctions shall be imposed against such
institution(s), including in extreme cases, loss of eligibility for all research support provided by the Council.
27.3    The National University Research Council shall commission studies to monitor the training and
research impact of the centers, including the volume of published research produced by staff and students
using center facilities, amount and sources of research grant funding obtained by principal investigators, the
number and distribution of research and training collaborations, and the number of Master's theses and
doctoral dissertations produced by students involved in research teams.






- 127 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 4
SECTOR AND PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Sector Indicators
Macro:               Higher increase in real public expenditure  for compulsory versus higher
education
Increase in private share of total higher education expenditure
Increase in private share of recurrent costs of public higher education
Increase in cost recovery from students as a proportion of private financing
in public higher education
Increase in per student expenditure in public and private higher education
Increase in proportion of state budget allocation used for program and
capital investments
Increase in proportion of state budget allocation used to support teaching
budgets
Decrease in proportion of state budget allocation for student welfare
Increase in proportion of student support directed to needy but talented
students
Reduction in variation in undergraduate unit costs among institutions and
between fields
Increase in the proportion of public R&D expenditure used to support
academic and fundamental research
Enrollment:          Increase in private share of total higher education enrollment
Increase in absolute and relative number of full time equivalent students in
part-time and continuing education programs
Increase in the proportion of full time students enrolled in diploma (short-
cycle) and certificate programs
Increase in the postgraduate share of full time equivalent enrollment in
public higher education institutions with 10,000or more students
Increase in the number of Master's students
Increase in the number of full-time doctoral students



- 128 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Increase in the proportion of undergraduate students graduating with double
majors or major and minor concentrations
Programs:            Increase in the number of elective programs and proportion  of elective
coursework offered at the undergraduate  and collegiate levels
Reduction  in the number of specialized  degree  programs  offered  in
engineering fields
Increase in number of short-cycle collegiate programs
Increase in the number of continuing education and part-time courses
Increase in the number of certificate programs
Increase in the number of course based doctoral programs
Reduction  in  the  number  of hours  of compulsory  instruction  for
undergraduate programs
Increase  in  the  number  of institutions  using  a credit  system  for
undergraduate degree, diploma or certificate programs
Staffing:            Increase in student to staff ratio in agriculture, engineering and performing
arts
Reduction in variation in student to staff ratio in economics, management,
social sciences and law.
Reduction in the number of academic staff vacancies
Increase in the proportion of academic staff at the level of lecturer or above
qualified with doctoral or equivalent degrees
Increase in the proportion of full time to total staff in private higher
education institutions
Increase in student to staff ratio in institutions with 5,000 or fewer students
Costs/Efficiency:    Decrease  in the absolute  number of higher education  institutions and
teaching faculties
Increase in the number of higher education institutions sharing research,
teaching, residential and catering facilities
Increase in the number of privately operated/managed  student hostels and



- 129 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
refectories
Increase in space utilization in engineering and technical institutions
Reduction in the number of years needed to complete doctoral programs
Increase in the proportion of students who complete undergraduate diploma
and degree programs in the normal length of study
Increase in the ratio of un-tenured to tenured academic staff
Reduction in the ratio of non-academic to academic salary costs in
institutional budgets
Quality:             Increase  in selectivity in admissions  to undergraduate  and collegiate
programs
Increase in selectivity in admissions to postgraduate programs
Increase in the number of foreign students applying for and admitted to
postgraduate programs
Increase in the minimum academic standards for awarding and determining
renewal of student support
Increase in the proportion  of programs and institutions "authorized" by
National Council on Accreditation and Academic Evaluation as well as in its
proportion of students pursuing equivalency examinations
Increase  in the number of postgraduate  and postdoctoral  fellowships
awarded to Romanians from foreign sources
Increase in amount and ratio of foreign research funding to domestic funding
secured by academic staff
Increase in the volume and success rate of Romanian researchers seeking
research funding from competitive European funding sources
Increase in the volume of mainstream scientific research surveyed by the
Institute for Scientific Information, in the number of authors and in number
of citations per paper
Increase in number of citations in mainstream research to papers in
Romanian scientific journals and publications
Increase in the number of academic staff/postgraduate  and postdoctoral
students involved in funded collaborative research with colleagues in foreign
countries



- 130 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Governance/
Management:           Increase in the number of institutions with independent governing boards
Increase  in the  number  of institutions  with separate  structures  for
administration and academic management
Increase in the number of institutions which select academic managers and
administrators through a panel review process
Increase in the number of institutions with planning, management
information and budgeting units
Increase in use of forward budget planning by institutions and cost, efficiency
performance based internal resource allocation mechanisms
Increase in the number of institutions carrying out cyclical review of
academic programs
Increase in the proportion of institutional budgets allocated on a
discretionary basis
Increase in the number of institutions establishing specialized units with
professionally trained staff to manage student financial support and services,
recruit private financing, use of physical and financial assets and alumni
relations, use of instructional and research facilities, instructional support
services, research funding and industrial relations, and personnel services



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MATERIALS IN PROJECT FILE
The studies listed below were commissioned by the Consultative Group on Higher Education
and Research in connection with preparation of the Government's reform strategy, Higher
Education Reform in Romania, adopted by the cabinet in November 1994.
1 .    Management of Human Resources
1.1 Gheorghe, M., and Marin, G., "The Management of Human Resources for University
Scientific Research."
1.2 Lapa, N., Radulescu, E. and Gavrila, L., "Teaching Staff from Higher Education:
Characteristics, Structures, Mobility Tendencies."
1.3 Voinescu, M., and Mitrofan. N., "The Auxiliary and Administrative Staff from Higher
Education: Structures, Characteristics, Mobility."
1.4 Paun, E., "Training of the Teaching Staff from Higher Education."
1.5 Paun, E. and Cioata, S., "The Improvement of Teaching Staff."
1.6 Munteanu, R., Gavrila, L. and Gheorghe, M., "Orientation, Selection, Evaluation and
Promotion of the Teaching Staff in Higher Education."
1.7 Palade, E. and Enache, A., "The Management of Human Resources in Private Higher
Education. "
1.8 Ionescu, N., Halus, R. Pavelescu, F.M., and Sandu, G., "The Number, Structure and
Characteristics of Human Resources in Research."
1.9 Pasa, F., "Criteria and Mechanisms of Professional Orientation and Selection,
Recruitment,  Evaluation-Certification   and Promotion  of the Staff in Research  and
Engineering. "
1.10 Vasile, V., Seciu, J., and Parlan, A., "The System of Payment Stimulation, Legislative
Aspects and Practical Problems."
1.11 Dobrescu, E., Moldoveanu, M. and Nanes, O., "The System of and Mechanisms for the
Training and Improvement of Research Staff."
1.12 Dumitrescu, M. and Bratu, I. "The Management of Human Resources in Research:
Expanding Institutional Autonomy."
1.13 Vlad, L., Rosu, D. and Chivu, L., "The Internal and External Migration of Staff."



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 9
2.    Financing Higher Education and Research
2.1 Bodar, M., "Generating Financial Resources for Higher Education and Proposals
Regarding Diversified Financial Resources.'"
2.2 Tudor, M. and Dornean, M., "The Structure of Expenditures in Higher Education."
2.3 Dogaru, 1. and Vasilescu, I., "Unit Costs in Public Higher Education."
2.4 Baron, T., and Boulescu, M., "Expenditures and Costs in Private Higher Education."
2.5 Dardac, N. and Preda, N., "A Comparative Study on Higher Education Financing in
Developed and Developing Countries".
2.6 Sergiu, C. and Cotarcea, S., "A Case Study of the Financing of Higher Education: The
University of Bucharest."
2.7 Oprea, C. and Apostol, R., "Case Study of the Financing Higher Education: The
Academy of Economics."
2.8 Topciu, C. "The Role of University Autonomy in Reforming the Financing of Higher
Education. "
2.9 Bob, C., Stroe, R., and Filimon, N., "Funding Mechanisms for Scientific Research in
Higher Education."
2.10Dachin, A.,Croitoru, C.,Stroe, E.,Olaru, P. and Radu, L.,"The Volume, Structure and
Dynamics of Expenditures for Research."
2.11 Stefan, 1. and Croitoru, C., "Principles, Criteria, Sources and Mechanisms for R&D
Financing. "
2.12 Enescu, R., Lazar, I.S.,Rosu, E. D., Popescu, O., Olariu, S.A.,Stanciulescu, I., Sandu,
A., and Dumitru, I., "Principles, Criteria Sources and Mechanisms for Financing
Technological Research."
2.13 Piso, M., Vlaicu, C., and Dragomirescu, S., "Income Generating Activities in Research
Institutes. "
2.14 Popescu, M.N., Gavat, R. and Tarnoveanu, 1.O., "Mechanisms for Stimulating Income
Generating Activities."
2.15 Piso, M. and Ursachi, I., "Forms of R&D Indirect Financing and the Stimulation of
Research Demand."
2.16 Goian, V. and Olariu, S.A., "Scope of R&D Indirect Financing."



- 133 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
2.17 Tampu, V., Stancu, N., Patoni, E., and Tarnoveanu, 1.O., "Cost Structure in Research."
2.18 Vlaicu, C., Dragomirescu, S., and Piso, M., "The Stimulation of Technology Transfer.'
2.19 Wiener, U., Stere, M., and Horer, O., "The Application of Results in Applied
Research. "
2.20 Serbanescu, V., Tibuleac, D., and Sbarna, M. "External Research Financing."
2.21 Naum, N., Lucan, P., and Duma, A., "Private Sector Contributions to R&D."
3.     Management of Higher Education and Research
3.1 Toma, I., Vasilescu, I., Calota, G., and Szuder, A., "Mangement of Public and Private
Higher Education Institutions."
3.2 Toma, I., Calota, G., and Oghina. D., "Shifts in Student Enrollment."
3.3 Vasilescu, 1. and Calota, G., "The Structure of Post-Secondary Education."
3.4 Constantin, I., "Technical Higher Education Institutions."
3.5 Toma, I. and Gheorghiu, L., "Normative Regulations in Higher Education."
3.6 Nicolescu, V., "Syllabi and Courses of Study."
3.7 Potolea, D., "The Management of Higher Education."
3.8 Nicolescu, A., "The Governance of Higher Education."
3.9 Popescu, I. I., "A Scientometric Assessment of Research Activity."
3.10 Amza, G., "The Organization and Development of Collegiate Education."
3.11 Popa, I. and Chera, I., "Open Distance Education at the University Level."
3.12 Vadineanu, A., "The Institutional Infrastructure of Higher Education."
3.13 Stoica, I., "University Libraries."
3.14 Ionescu, B., "Study Curricula."
3.15 Marinescu, V., "Computers in Higher Education".



- 134 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
3.16 Radulescu, V., "Space Management in Higher Education Institutions."
3.17 Toma, S., Zlate, M., Bogdan, A., Buse, C., Bruckner, I., and Sarnoila, C., "Curricula."
3.18 Bratianu, C. and Dumitrache, L., "Income Generating Activities in Higher Education."
3.19 Papahagi, M., "University Autonomy: Implications for Management."
3.20 Marga, A., "Evolution of Academic Autonomy in Romania."
3.21 Bulai, A.. "Increasing Financial Autonomy".
3.22 Damian, R. and Jurca, I., "University Administration."
3.23 Temple, P., "Management Structures in Romanian Universities".
3.24 Sterian, P., Popescu, L., and Brukner, I., "The Evaluation of Academic Quality."
3.25 Profirescu, M., "The Accreditation of Higher Education Institutions."
3.26 Rotaru, T., "Quality Evaluation and Accreditation."
3.27 Zamfir, E. "Accreditation and Academic Evaluation in New Disciplines."
3.28 Grigorescu, D., "Tempus Program in Romania."
3.29 Petrescu, M., and Pincovschi, E., "The Relationship between Higher Education and
Research Institutions."
3.30 Prodan, G., Musca, G., Sarlea, L., Caplanus. I., Dinca, G., Popescu, L., Samoila, C.,
Sandu, G., Craciunoiu, S.,Visalon, E., Wiener, U., and Sarbu, P., "The R&D Institutional
System. "
3.31 Stan, S., Dragomirescu, S.,and Fara, I., "The Evaluation of R&D Organizations."
3.32 Farcas, D. and Mihaescu, O., "Research Funding Strategies."
3.33 Enescu, R. and Nicolescu, R., "Quality of Management in Research."
3.34 Visalon, E., Costake, N., and Sandu, G., "Infrastructure for Research Activities."
3.35 Ivanus, G. and Ponoran, I.D., "Managing Income Generating Activities in Research
Institutes. "



- 135 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 9
4.    Implementation  of Reforms in Higher Education and Research
4.1 Barbu, G., "Estimation of Expenditures for Student Support."
4.2 Manea, L., "Recruitment, Promotion and Remuneration in the University System."
4.3 Manea, L., "The Remuneration and Social Protection System in Higher Education and
Research. "
4.4 Birzea, C. and Novak, C. "University Missions in a Market Economy and Democratic
Society. "
4.5 Badica, G., "The Ownership of Higher Education Institutions."
4.6 Serbanescu, V., "Reform of Scientific Research Reform in East and Central European
Countries. "
4.7 Popa, M., "Establishing an Endowment for the Romanian Academy Through Return of
Its Properties and Assets."
4.8 lancu, S., "Collaboration Between the Romanian Academy and Higher Education
Institutions in the Training of Researchers."
4.9 Stanescu, V., "The Financing of Activities of the Romanian Academy by the Elias
Foundation. "
4.10 Dachin, A., Stroe E., "Improving the Institutional Framework for Research
Programming and Financing."
4.10 Tibuleac, D., "Reconnecting Romania with the International Scientific System."
4.11 Wiener, U., "Instruments for Diffusing the Results of Applied Research."
4.12 Adascalitei, V., "The Legal Basis of the R&D System."
5.    Syntheses
5.1 Beldescu, S. "The Research System of the Romanian Academy."
5.2 Crisan. I. and Parausanu, V., "The Management of    Research."
5.3 Duma, M., "The Financing of Technological Research."
5.4 Matache, G., "Proposals for the Reform of the R&D System."



- 136 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 9
5.5 Mihailescu, L., "The Financing of Romanian Universities."
5.6 Mihailescu, I., "Higher Education in Romania."
5.7 Mosteanu, T., "The Financing of the Romanian Higher Education System."
5.8 Neacsu, I., "The Management of Human Resources in Higher Education."
5.9 Pert, S. and Dumitrescu S., "Human Resources for Scientific Research."
5.10 Sandu, S., "The Financing of Research and Development in Romania."
5.11 Vlasceanu, L., "Institutional Management in Higher Education."
5.12 Zamfir, C., "Reform of the Higher Education System."
6.     Studies Commissioned from Foreign Consultants
6.1 Albrecht, D., "Higher Education Financing Reform in Romania."
6.2 Aresta, S., "The U.S. System of Financing Higher Education and the Role of Admission,
Career and Alumni Departments."
6.3 Davis, C., "Institutional Frameworks for Autonomy, Effectiveness and Accountability in
the Romanian National System of Innovation."
6.4 Gaillard, J., "Romanian Scientists: A Survey."
6.5 Gaillard, J., "External Sources of Financing S&T Collaborative Research Programns with
Romania. "
6.6 Gaillard, J., "Higher Education, Science and Technology in Romania."
6.7 Herbert, P., "Sourcebook on Establishing an Accreditation and Quality Assurance
System. "
6.8 Katz, M., "Endowments: Basic Concepts and Issues for Romanian Education and
Research Institutions."
6.9 Katz, M., "Issues Regarding the Financing of Research."
6.10 Peace-Lenn, M., "Accreditation and Romanian Higher Education."



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 9
6. 11 Sadlak, J., "Legacy and Change: Higher Education and the Restoration of Academic
Work in Romania."
6.12 Sadlak, J .. "The Special Fund Dilemma."
6.13 Sadlak, J., "The Emergence of a Diversified System: The State and Private Predicarnent
in the Transformation of Higher Education in Romania."
6.14 Sheehan, J., "Unit Costs in Romanian Universities."
6.15  Sheehan, J., "Calculating  Unit Costs  in  University-Level  Institutions:  Data
Requirements. "
6.16 Sheehan, J., "Funding of Research and Research Institutes in Romania."
6.17 Tillman, G. (1993), "Sourcebook on Research Funding Mechanisms."



- 138 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
INSTITUTIONS PARTICIPATING IN THE PILOT STUDY
ON INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
1.    The Polytechnics University of Bucharest
2.    University of Bucharest
3.    The "Carol Davila" University of Medical Studies of Bucharest
4.    The "Ion Mincu" University of Architecture of Bucharest
5.    The Academy of Film and Theater of Bucharest
6.    The "Alexandru loan Cuza" University of Iasi
7.    The University of Timisoara
8.    The University of Craiova
9.    The "Ion Ionescu de la Brad" Agricultural University of Iasi
10.   The University of Medical Studies of Timisoara
11.   The "Gheorghe Dima" Academy of Music of Cluj-Napoca
12.   The Institute of Civil Marine of Constanta
13.   The "Dunarea de Jos" University of Galati
14.   The "1 Decembrie" University of Alba-lulia
15.   The Technical University of Tirnisoara
16.   The "Iuliu Hatieganu" University of Medical Studies and   Pharmacy of Cluj-Napoca
17.   The "Transilvania" University of Brasov
18.   The University of Agricultural Sciences of Cluj-Napoca
19.   The Technical University of Cluj-Napoca
20.   The University of Agricultural Sciences of Banat
21.   The University of Ploiesti
22.   The Academy of Economic Studies of Bucharest



- 139 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 9
PILOT STUDIES CARRIED OUT BY ROMANIAN CONSULTANTS IN 1995 AND EARLY
1996
Pilot Study on Unit Costs Paper
Authors:            Joan Gheorghe Dinca--coordinator
Constantin Croitoru
Radu Mircea Damian
Tatiana Mosteanu
Adrian Chisalita
Nicolae Ganuta
Vasile Tugui
Radu Ivascu
Nicolae loan Alecu
Manea Draghici
loan Avarvarei
Traian Aurite
Study on Labor Market Characteristics
Author:              Cornelia Novak



I



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27424
22-    \                                24                                      26        *2a8IR 244
ART~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
'>                            ~~~~~~~~U K R A I N E       r           L
-4a.         _s,sj.u s_                  ysocixwo                       '                          \ROMANIA
o   SELECrED anES
H U N*GCAURlY .s r ......._ ei . X ' ;\ i 3tJUDEI s '; X s s CCeaCENTERS
v      r               MA?A,rttES            \erA R A v   R E S                     Booni           0g                         NAK M1 cATrA
,B.../ 4; ___  M.r.             ;t0  > % )    ,,  =-                                                     EXPRESSWAY
4-     ~~~     MA)OR ROADS
PORTS
B!ST  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- iUVERS
T. S.dp..,              N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-COUtYM (IWDET) BOUNDARIES
7odm        >      . kS A -D.                                          ,A                                                                    OI/NIRNATNALBOUNDTAIES
onI,. booldorioa oolon. dooo,ntororo                                           * /       \        ond _          G uri                                          hvouoi
on y o ny o th m ~d o ..n ooro n .h o en    o i o                                                   Z  iA                  ,                                                   *
Ti,~~~~~~M,J.ToVo,
ssh~~~~~ Ronore             22 D                                      4     BULGARIA              $22'                                                           kVM
oO~~~~ ~ lA Ioo Iii, oI o'                                                                                                                                                             MVEUMI) oW
rook <orrolo.r.,.                 22-                                                                                 20
B I ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-ORiR 9









IMAGING
Report No:       15525 RO
Type: SAR



