Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4096 RO
                               Loan Agreement
               (Reform of Higher Education and Research Project)
                                  between
                                  ROMANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 2, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4096 RO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated July 23, 1996, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to develop and improve higher education (the Program), and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
     (B)  the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of measures to be undertaken pursuant to, or in furtherance of, the
provisions of said Program, through Parts B and C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, by extending the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
     (C) by agreement dated May 31, 1996, the European Union has agreed
to make a grant to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equi-
valent to nine million six hundred thousand Dollars ($9,600,000) to
assist in the financing of Part A of the Project on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Action Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (b)  "Beneficiary" means a higher education institution, or an
individual or group of individuals designated thereby, to whom or to
which the Borrower has made or proposes to make a Grant;
     (c)  "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-
Project;
     (d)  "Higher Education Councils" means the National Council on
Accreditation and Academic Evaluation, the National Higher Education
Financing Council, and the National University Research Council,
which have been established by the Borrower;
     (e)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
     (f)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, which has been
established within the MOE;
     (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (h)  "Sub-Project" means a  project to be carried out by a
Beneficiary under Parts B or C of the Project, utilizing the proceeds
of a Grant.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid)
on account of withdrawals made by Beneficiaries under Grants to meet
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-Projects
under Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, satisfactory to
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
        (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A)
              one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus)
              the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period,
              below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
              other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect
              of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
              allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
              portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
              reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
              percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the deter-
mination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April
15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MOE with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, economic and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Page  4
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts
B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:
              (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                   such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
Page  5
                   in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                   of this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                   cedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                             Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the actions, objectives and
policies included in the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
implemented.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                                 Termination
     Section 6.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          17, Apolodor Street
          Bucharest
          Romania
                                        Telex:
                                        11239
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                     ROMANIA
Page  6
                    By /s/ Mircea Geoana
                                                 Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Europe and Central Asia
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated             % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category                    Dollars)           to be Financed
(1)  Grants under:                                  70% of amounts paid
                                                    under the Grants
     (a) Part B.1 of the Project   9,600,000
     (b) Part B.2 of the Project   5,000,000
     (c) Part B.3 of the Project   4,900,000
     (d) Part C.1 of the Project  10,200,000
     (e) Part C.2 of the Project   9,200,000
(2)  Grants under Part C.3 of     11,100,000        79% of amounts paid
     the Project                                    under the Grants
                                  __________
     TOTAL                        50,000,000
                                  ==========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for payments made under the
Grants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the management
capacity of the Higher Education Councils and higher education insti-
tutions; (b) develop the undergraduate and continuing education
programs demanded by the transition to a market economy; and (c) develop
the postgraduate education and major research programs demanded by the
transition to a market economy, all in accordance with the Program.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  7
Part A:     Management Capacity Improvement
     Provision of goods and consultants' services to assist the Borrower
in improving the capacity of the Higher Education Councils and higher
education institutions to fulfill their responsibilities in accordance
with the reform strategy for the education sector, including the improve-
ment of the coordination between the Higher Education Councils and the
higher education institutions, in accordance with the agreement between
the Borrower and the European Union dated May 31, 1996, referred to in
the Preamble to this Agreement.
Part B:     Undergraduate and Continuing Education Programs
1.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the development of university programs, through: (a) the introduction
or reinforcement of teaching programs in fields of study particularly
important for a market economy; (b) the introduction or reinforcement
of interdisciplinary programs; and (c) the introduction of new methods
of  teaching.
2.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the introduction or reinforcement of college programs.
3.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the introduction or reinforcement of continuing education programs,
including the establishment of  regional continuing education centers
within colleges and universities.
Part C:     Postgraduate Education and Research Programs
1.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the development of postgraduate programs, through: (a) the introduction
or reinforcement of teaching programs in fields of study particularly
important for a market economy, including support of doctoral research
and studies; and  (b) the introduction or reinforcement of interdis-
ciplinary programs.
2.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the introduction or reinforcement of major research programs.
3.   Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries, on a competitive basis, for
the establishment of multi-user centers with advanced research facili-
ties.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in Dollars)*
April 15, 2002                               1,065,000
October 15, 2002                             1,095,000
April 15, 2003                               1,130,000
October 15, 2003                             1,160,000
April 15, 2004                               1,195,000
October 15, 2004                             1,230,000
April 15, 2005                               1,265,000
October 15, 2005                             1,300,000
April 15, 2006                               1,340,000
October 15, 2006                             1,380,000
April 15, 2007                               1,420,000
October 15, 2007                             1,460,000
April 15, 2008                               1,505,000
October 15, 2008                             1,550,000
April 15, 2009                               1,595,000
October 15, 2009                             1,640,000
April 15, 2010                               1,685,000
Page  8
October 15, 2010                             1,735,000
April 15, 2011                               1,785,000
October 15, 2011                             1,840,000
April 15, 2012                               1,895,000
October 15, 2012                             1,950,000
April 15, 2013                               2,005,000
October 15, 2013                             2,065,000
April 15, 2014                               2,125,000
October 15, 2014                             2,185,000
April 15, 2015                               2,250,000
October 15, 2015                             2,315,000
April 15, 2016                               2,385,000
October 15, 2016                             2,450,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely, that the provisions of paragraphs
2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost  less than $500,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
Page  9
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
5.   Direct Contracting
     Goods of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement,
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
6.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic con-
tractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifi-
cations, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods or works procured under the
provisions of Parts B, C.1, C.2 or C.5 of Section I of this Schedule,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to contracts for the employment of individual consultants or
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reason-
ably determined by the Bank; or (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants or consulting firms raising the
Page  10
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
     The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.   Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project shall
be assigned by the Borrower to the MOE.
2.   The Borrower shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project in
accordance with the specific actions agreed with the Bank in the
Action Plan and, to this end, shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the specific actions set
forth in the Action Plan;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about May 30, a yearly report inte-
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities per-
formed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the specific actions set forth in the
Action Plan during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the specific actions set forth in the Action Plan and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, or such later date as the
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the specific actions set forth in the Action
Plan and the achievement of the objectives thereof, on the basis of
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's
views on the matter.
3.   The Borrower shall maintain the PCU and the Higher Education
Councils with a sufficient number of qualified staff, adequate
facilities, and authority satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   With respect to the selection of  Sub-Projects, and the award of
Grants to the Beneficiaries, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  follow procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank;
     (b)  send to the Bank, not later than May 30 of each year, a
list of all the proposals for Sub-Projects submitted to the Higher
Education Councils during the preceding year, with the indication
of the Grant awards recommended by the Higher Education Councils; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, on or about June 30 of each year (and,
in any event, before the submission of the Higher Education Councils'
recommendations to the MOE for final approval of the Grant awards),
the Higher Education Councils' recommendations, and the application
of the procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank, with respect to
up to one hundred (100) proposals for Sub-Projects selected by the
Bank out of the list received from the Borrower, and thereafter take
all the necessary measures as shall be consistent with the results of
such review.
5.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  review with the Bank, on or about April 30 of each year (and,
in any event, before the selection of Sub-Projects), the indicative
allocation percentages of Grants among the different fields of higher
education, to be established on the basis of procedures and criteria
agreed with the Bank, and thereafter take all the necessary measures
as shall be consistent with the results of such review; and
Page  11
     (b)  review with the Bank, on or about June 30 of each year (and,
in any event, before the Grant awards), any proposed allocation per-
centage of Grants to a field of higher education that differs by more
than twenty percent (20%) from the indicative allocation percentage
for that field of higher education, and thereafter take all the
necessary measures as shall be consistent with the results of such
review.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of amounts paid under the Grants and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$4,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $2,250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B
and C of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$4,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
Page  12
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to Parts B and C of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
