Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.;?-4032-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DI RECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
May 28, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizakion.
.~~~~~~   I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY
Calendar 1984   January 1, 1985
Currency Unit   - Dirhams (DH)
US$1.00         = DH 8.90              9.5
DH 1.00         = US$o.1l2             0.105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CKV            -    Field Offices in Irrigated Areas
Centres de Mise en Valeur
CNCA           -    National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
CP             -    Programme Contract
CT             -    Centres de Travaux
(Field Offices in Rainfed Areas)
DER            -    Rural Investment Division
Division de l'Equipement Rural
DPA            -    Provincial Department of Agriculture
-    (Direction provirciale de l'agriculture)
DPAE           -    Division of Planning and Economic Analysis
-    (Division de la planification et des affaires economiques)
DPV            -    Crop Production Division
Division de la Production Vegetale
EFF            -    Extended Fund Facility
FERTIMA        -    National Fertilizer Marketing Company
(Soci6t6 Marocaine des Fertilisants)
INRA           -    National Agricultural Research Institute
-    (Institut national de la recherche agronomique)
ITPA           -    Industrial & Trade Policy Adjustment
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
-    (Appel d'offres international)
MARA           -    Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reforms
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
OCE            -    National Export Company
-    (Office de commercialisation des exportations)
OCP            -    National Phosphate Company
-    (Office Cherifien des phosphates)
ONICL          -    Office for Cereals and Legume Crops
-    (Office national interprofessionnel des cereales et des
l6gumineuses)
ORMVAs         -    Regional Office for Agricultural Development
-    (Office regional de mise en valeur agricole)
SCAM/CMA       -    Regional Marketing Cooperatives
-    (Soci6te Cooperative agricole marocaine/coop6rative
marocaine d'approvisionnement)
SONACOS        -    National Seed Company
(Soci6t6 Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences)
GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY
PART I   : THE ECONOMY                                                      I
PART II  : OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                      7
PART III :THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR                                            9
PART IV  :THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                       14
A. Origin and Objectives                                        14
B. Restructuring Public Investments and Expenditures            14
C. Re-orienting Prices and Incentives Framework                 18
D. Strengthening Supporting Services and Rationalizing
the Role of the Public Sector                               22
E. Building Institutional Capacity and Resolving
Structural Problems                                         34
PART V     THE LOAN                                                        38
A. Origin and Objectives                                        38
B. The Action Program Under the Loan                            38
C. Loan Administration                                          45
D. Management and Co-ordination                                 48
E. Justification and Risk                                       49
PART VI  : LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY                                  50
PART VII : RECOMMENDATIONS                                                 51
ANNEXES
I. Country data
II. Status of Bank Operations
III. Supplemental Loan Data Sheet
IV. Government Statement cf Sector Development Policy
V. Action Timetable for Medium-term Sector Adjustments
VI. Outline of Technical Support Volume
TABLES
1. Agricultural Production
2. Agricultural Imports/Exports
3. Projected Annual Input Program
4. 5 Year Water Charge Recovery Program
5. Core Investment Program
6. Budget Impact of Alternative Cereal Procurement Programs
This document has a rstricted distnrbution and may be used by .epints oldy in the performance of
their ofridal duties Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:           The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:             US$100 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Loan Description:  The proposed Loan would support the first phase of
the implementation of the Government's program of
adjustments in the agricultural sector. The
principal objectives of the sector adjustment
program are to improve the growth rate in
agriculture within the overall constraints in
public resources. To achieve this objective,
actions have been taken and others will be
implemented in the following 18 months, to (i)
complete a restructuring of the investment
program; (ii) re-orient the prices and incentives
framework; (iii) strengthen agricultural support
services including rationalizing the role of the
private sector; and (iv) build institutional
capacity for agricultural planning and policy
analysis. The adjustment program is described in
the Government's letter to the Bank of Sector
Development Policies. The foreign exchange
provided by the Loan would be used to finance an
agreed program of imports of inputs needed for
stimulating agricultural production, including
fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, animal feed, fuel,
agricultural machinery and spare parts and
veterinary medecines. The risks of the program
relate to assessing the length and difficulty of
the adjustments, the uncertainties of response of
the private sector and farmers to the changes in
the incentive patterns and uncertainties in the
external environment including the prospects for
Morocco's agricultural exports.
Estimated Disbursements.    The Loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The
first tranche of US$50 M would be available at the
time of Loan Effectiveness. The second tranche of
US$50M would be released after implementation of
specific actions, including an overall
satisfactory review of the implementation of the
sector adjustment program.
Appraisal Report:            This is a combined President and Staff Appraisal
Report. A detailed Technical Support Volume is
available on request.
1361E



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$100.0 million, in support
of its program for agricultural sector policy adjustments. This program is
described in a Letter of Sector Development Policy, received from the
Government (Annex IV). The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate. The African
Develapment Bank is also considering a loan in support of this program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report, entitled "Morocco - Financial Sector Study" (No. 4957-MOR), was
issued on December 12, 1984. The following section reflects the findings of
an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in July 1984 to prepare a
paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment Policies and Prospects", for
presentation to a Consultative Group meeting held in Paris in January 9-11,
1985. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Agriculture remains an important sector in the Moroccan economy:
about half of the population depend on it for their livelihood, but it lags
behind in productivity - it contributes only 17% of GDP (1979-82).
Agricultural exports accounted for about 17% of total exports in 1980-83, down
from 38.5X in 1969-71. Agricultural and food imports have been increasing at
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report
No. P-4079 of May 15, 1985 for a Health Development Project.



- 2 -
a rate of about 12% in the last decade, reaching 16% of total imports in
1980-83. Nonetheless, Morocco has a relatively good agricultural potential
which remains untapped. In addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has
favored trade, tourism and labor migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a favorable
external environment and a conservative approach to economic policy
predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an average rate of 4% a year in
the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and conservative external
borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the share of resources
allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with no major
financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled, the
current account of the balance of payments remained in surplus. The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
significant acceleration in the rate of growth to 7.5% per year between 1973
and 1977. There was also a major expansion of expenditure on social services,
which have however until now been relatively inefficient in reaching the lower
income groups, particularly in the rural areas.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected by the world recession. Accelerated investment, rising social
expenditures and increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
the Western Sahara, soon created strong pressures on both the balance of
payments and the Government budget. The Treasury deficit reached 15.8% of
GDP. and the current account deficit of the balance of payments, 16.5% of GDP
in 1977. To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the
international capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden.
7.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a stabilization program, with the aim
of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels. The program
centered on reductions in investment outlays and stricter import controls but
was not sustained long enough and did not address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the economy. By 1980, both fiscal and external imbalances were
again substantial: the Treasury deficit remained at about 11% of GDP and the
current account deficit of the balance of payments at 8% of GDP. By the end
of 1980, the external debt had risen to $7 billion (not including military and
short-term debt) and the debt service ratio was 27% of exports of goods and
services in 1980, and continuing to rise.
Recent Economic Developments
8.       GDP growth has slowed down since 1978 to 2.8% a year on average, just
enough to keep per capita income from falling. Agricultural val'ie added,
which rose rapidly in the sixties, has stagnated since the seventies. Despite
substantial public investment, value added in manufacturing also stagnated in



recent years. Construction, which had experienced intense activity during the
mid-seventies, started declining steadily with the slow down in public
investment after 1977. Government services have been the main source of
growth since 1978.
9.       In 1980-82, renewed efforts were made to stabilize the Moroccan
economy with the help of the IMF. In October 1980, the IMF approved a
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the amount of SDR 810 million. The
EFF was suspended in 1981, however, and replaced in April 1982 by a one-year
Stand-by, which was implemented as planned, but had relatively little impact
on Morocco's financial performance. Throughout this period, Morocco's
attempts at stabilization were severely hampered by a series of exogenous
shocks: a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already
substantial petroleum import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought,
followed by a succession of poor harvests, which led to substantial imports of
cereals in recent years; c) the rise . international interest rates which
contributed to a steep increase in debt service; and d) the international
economic recession which contributed to a 30% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar
price of rock phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances,
Morocco's two principal sources of foreign exchange in the early 1980s.
10.      At the same time, however, expansionary public spending policies
continued to be a major source of both fiscal and external imbalance.
Adoption of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP
growth rate of 6.5X p.a., led to a substantial increase in public investment
expenditures and the Treasury deficit rose from 10.7Z of GDP in 1980 to 14.5Z
in 1981 and 12.3% in 1982.
11.      The combined impact on the balance of payments of external shocks and
expansionary fiscal policies was an caerall increase in the current account
deficit from $1.4 billion in 1980 to $1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8Z to 13Z
of GDP).  While there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the continued growth of manufactured exports, the emergence of some
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy in late 1980, these were more than
offset by the fall in phosphate earnings and workers' remittances and the
continued growth of petroleum and capital goods imports.
12.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments, Morocco continued to rely heavily on external borrowing. By
December 1983, total external debt, including military and short-term
commercial debt but excluding IMF obligations, reached an estimated
$12 billion. As a result of growing debt and the rise in international
interest rates, Morocco's debt service averaged $1.2 to 1.3 billion in 1980-82
(medium and long-term debt only, noc including military debt and IMF debt).
The debt service ratio in 1982 rose to 34.7X of exports of goods and
services. Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged $2 billion a year of which
$0.9 billion from official multilateral and bilateral sources.
The 1983 Adiustment Program
13.      In early 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net
foreign assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to tighten import
restrictions in March. With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and
the high level of external debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden



- 4 -
for the next few years, the Government became aware of the need to put
together a package of policies, including stabilization and structural
adjustment measures, which could warrant support from both the IMF and the
Bank, and form the basis for a debt rescheduling operation.
14.      A program prepared in mid-1983 was supported by an IMF stand-by
arrangement covering the second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 300 million. Its principal objective was to reduce the
current account deficit of the balance of payments from $1.9 billion in 1982
to $1.3 billion in 1983 and $1 billion in 1984 through limits on monetary
expansion, reduction in the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible
exchange rate policy. Subsidized food prices were increased by 172 to 602 and
increases were made in the prices of fertilizers, electricity, water and
petroleum products. Budgetary investment appropriations were also revised
dowrnward, substantially in line with tIe recommendations of the Bank report on
Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual Treasury
investment expenditures to DH 8 billion in 1983 (compared with DH 12.5 billion
in 1982). The objective of the 1983 adjustment program was to reduce the
overall Treasury deficit from DH 11.1 billion in 1982 to about DH 8.8 billion
in 1983. -1'
15.      To reinforce the adjustment process,  the flexible exchange rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983. The real effective exchange
rate index calculated on a trade weighted basis declined by 9Z between July
1983 and May 1984. In addition, a process of debt rescheduling was started in
order to improve the debt profile and restructure it in the light of the
estimated resources available for debt servicing. The Government asked for,
and was granted by the Paris Club, a rescheduling of its external public debt
maturing in September 1983 - December 1984. At a meeting of donors in Paris
in November 1983, additional balance-of-payments assistance of about $500
million was pledged for 1983-84 and it was agreed that a Consultative Group
for aid coordination would be convened a year hence.
16.      Finally, along with its stabilization effort, Morocco is making a
significant start on the structural reforms needed to restore a viable
balance-of-payments position in the medium term, with a package of measures to
restructure incentives in order to eliminate the bias in favor of import
substitution which has in recent years handicapped the growth of the export
sector and hampered efficient use of resources. In January 1984, the Bank
approved a $150 million Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA) to
support the first phase of this program, which included actions to reduce
import protection and promote exports, in particular: a continuation of the
exchange rate adjustment initiated under the IMF Stand-by, coupled with a
reduction of the special import tax; reductions in import tariffs and an
easing of quantitative import restrictions; broader access to duty-free inputs
for exports and the rationalization of border-tax adjustments on external
trade under the domestic sales tax; improved administrative procedures; the
elimination of export licensing in agriculture and manufacturing; improvement
of the export credit and export credit insurance systems; and a significant
reduction in the scope of price controls on manufactured goods. Most of the
measures under this program have now been implemented. The first tranche of
1/ Report No. 4156-MOR Priorities for Public Sector Investment (15 June '84).



- 5 -
the Bank loan ($75 million) was drawn in June 1984, and the second tranche in
October 1984. A recently negotiated $200 million follow-up Loan would support
the second phase of the adjustment program, which would continue the
industrial and trade policj- reforms initiated in 1984 and would extend the
reform program to the financial sector. Future phases of the adjustment
process will address further fiscal reform and initiate reforms in public
enterprises, education and in agricultural policy. Those included in the
agricultural restructuring program are supported by the present loan.
17.      The information available for 1983 and the first half of 1984
confirms that the results of the Government's adjustment program thus far have
been largely positive. Exports increased by about 10% in real terms in 1983
and an estimated 8% in 1984. Tourism receipts and workers' remittances also
increased sharpLy. On the import side, a significant contraction was achieved
in 1983 as a result of the stabilization policies. In 1984, imports rebounded
to some extent, partly as a result of the trade liberalization policies
adopted under ITPA. There was also a considerable increase in food and
petroleum imports as a result of the continuing drought. The current account
deficit of the balance of payments was sharply reduced, from $1.9 billion and
13.2% of GDP in 1982 to $1.1 billion and 8.0% in 1983 (before debt relief).
In 1984, despite the growth of imports, the current account deficit before
debt relief is estimated to have remained at about $1.1 billion, rising to
10.8% of GDP (as against IMF initial program targets of 7.5% of GDP, the
latter being based on expectations of substantially higher rates of GDP growth
and inflation). Significant improvement was also recorded in the government
budget deficit, which declined from 12.5% of GDP in 1982 to 9.1% in 1983 and
7.8% in 1984 (before debt relief), as planned under the IMF program.
Simultaneously, 1984 marked the fourth consecutive year of drought with its
serious consequences not only for the balance of payments but also on
employment, since the agricultural sector accounts for approximately 50% of
total employment. The combined impact of stabilization policies and poor
harvests kept GDP growth low (2.2% in 1983 and 2.4% in 1984).
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
18.      A Consultative Group meeting was held in Paris on January 9-11,
1985. The Consultative Group focused on Morocco's medium-term adjustment
policies and prospects. A joint Bank-IMF economic updating mission visited
Morocco in July to prepare a background paper for this meeting. Both the
Bank's and the Government's presentation to the Consultative Group reflected
the view that a fundamental stabilization effort needs to be sustained over
several years and combined with a strong program of structural adjustment in
order to restore a viable external payments position and resume a satisfactory
rate of growth, in view of the high external debt burden. Such a program
would have as its basic aims:
(a) to reduce the deficit of the balance of payments over the short and
medium term through continued trade policy reforms and appropriate
development strategies in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, that would increase production and promote
exports and efficient import substitution;
(b) to improve the allocation of capital and the efficiency of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate changes in
investment policies) and in the private sector (through reform of the
protection system and of interest rate policies);



- 6 -
(c) to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(d) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases, diversifi-
cation of financial instruments and greater competition in the
banking sector; and
(e) to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
These objectives are being pursued with different relative intensity under the
reform programs in the agricultural, industrial and educational sectors
prepared with the assistance of the Bank and supported by related lending
(ITPA I and II loans in support of reforms in financial, industrial and trade
policies and the proposed loan in support of policy reforms in the
agricultural sector).
19.      The medium-term projections for Morocco, based on the policies
outlined above, depict a scenario of transition from inward-looking import
substitution to outward-oriented export expansion. Due to the large external
imbalance, the restructuring policies designed to achieved this transition
must be accompanied by continued efforts to reduce domestic absorption.
Policies to promote exports and increase domestic savings can be expected to
bear fruit only gradually in Morocco's circumstances. This will severely
limit the level of investment that can be financed for the next several years,
given the constrained net anount of external financing available to Morocco,
with a resulting deflationary impact on domestic demand. However,
implementation of the adjustment measures, including improved export
incentives, would induce an expansion of exports and a gradual acceleration of
output growth toward the end of the period.
20.      Export growth plays a crucial role in the projected adjustment
scenario. As a result of improved export incentives and the revival of
foreign markets, exports of manufactured products (including phosphate
derivatives) would grow at 13% p.a on average in 1985-90. Exports of rock
phosphates and phosphate derivatives would grow at about 9% p.a.. The overall
growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services in this
scenario would accelerate to about 8% p.a. in constant prices in 1985-90.
With respect to imports, the change in the structure of incentives in
conjunction with the depreciation of the dirham would improve the efficiency
of import substitution and reduce the reliance on imported inputs. Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would be
limited to about 2% p.a. during 1985-90.
21.      Given the strong constraints on the resources available, gross
investment is projected to decline in the short-term from about 22.9% of GDP
in 1984 to 18.5% towards the end of the decade. It is assumed that the
Government would start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict the
allocation of investments to priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral
allocation and the efficiency of investment. Priority is to be given to
projects that are export orievted, less capital intensive and which use a
greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular attention



- 7-
would have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to the
employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising
to excessive levels.
22.      An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be an increase
in domestic savings. As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in
the Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public savings are projected to increase significantly. In addition,
improvements in the mobilization of private savings would also take place
through interest rate increases and reform of the financial sector, so that
the overall domestic savings rate in this scenario would rise from about 12%
in 1984 to about 17% by 1990.
23.      The acceleration of export growth relative to import growth in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would result in a steady improvement in Morocco's external payments
position. Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained,
the current account would be approximately in equilibrium by 1989. Until
then, however, Morocco would continue to require substantial amounts of medium
and long-term capital to cover the continuing current account deficits and
meet the heavy schedule of debt repayments coming due in the next few years.
Total gross capital requirements would average close to $3 billion annually in
1985-87. A substantial portion of these requirements could come from debt
relief along the lines of the debt rescheduling obtained by Morocco from its
creditors in 1983-84. The remainder could be obtained through normal mediumi
and long-term inflows of new capital, if new commitments from Morocco's
official lenders can be maintained at their current rate.
PART I[ - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO-'
24.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 60 projects, financing a total
of $2,415 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $52.6 million, have been made available
for five projects. IFC investments have amounted to $99.1 million
($54.1 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of
IFC investments, as of March 31, 1984.
25.      Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-a-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis
appraisal estimates. The ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates
averaged 49% as of September 30, 1984, low in comparison to other countries in
the region.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part II of the President's Report No.
P-4079 of May 15, 1985 for a Health Development Project.



- 8 -
26.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases is being supported by Bank lending.
The Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on the public
investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals relating to
the financial sector (for which a mission visited Morocco in September 1983),
public enterprises (for which a first economic mission was undertaken in
spring 1984), and the education and agricultural sectors, which is the origin
of the proposed loan. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to
persist over the medium-term, projects now under preparation are being timed
and designed to be consistent with the revised investment strategy which aims
to minimize their reliance on incremental budgetary funds.
27.      Agriculture continues to represent an important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development and irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, in parallel with successful series of agricultural credit projects.
There are no major covenants in default. Bank's operations in those fields
will continue at a pace consistent with the country's investment capacity
while paying special attention to maximizing non-budgetary financing and
improving cost recovery. Experience has shown that while the impact of these
projects on the production in the specific area of operation has been
satisfactory, there remain significant weaknesses yet to be adequately
addressed in the Government intervention and support for the agricultural
sector as a whole. At present increased attention is being given to
agricultural support services at the national level, which are essential for
backstopping regional development projects. In parallel, the Bank has helped
the Moroccan authorities to review the sector policy framework and to
formulate its medium-term adjustment program covering investment strategy,
pricing and incentive policy and role of the public sector. The proposed loan
is in support of a first phase of the sector adjustment program to support the
medium term sector adjustment program (para. 18) and is expected to be
followed by similar operations, as further specific measures to adjust the
prices and incentives framework are developed.
28.      Energy and mining.  The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission and coal mining w-dernization and expansion. Future projects
would assist in the development of domestic energy supplies, including gas,
and hydropower. Through these projects as well as in our sectoral policy
dialogue, efficiency in energy development and use would be promoted through
attention to pricing, cost recovery and management issues.



29.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing
as well as improved cost recovery in these sibsectors through tariffs should
help reduce tihe Treasury deficit. In additiot to continuing support for the
abo'r--.-:;tioned subsectors, projects are unde.  preparation for ports, sewerage
and telecommunications.
30.      Industrial development in Morocco has been supported primarily
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of meditum-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production. The first phase of such reforms is supported by the first
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan, and further sectoral
adjustment lending in industry to support subsequent phases of the medium-term
ITPA program adopted by the Government has been negotiated recently.
31.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-incnme
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget. A first health development project which would
test new health care delivery systems in order to improve basic health
services in rural areas has been negotiated recently. Finally, the experience
of projects in urban upgrading will be continued and expanded, with increased
efforts to mobilize private financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART m - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Past Performance
32.      Similar to many middle income countries, Morocco has experienced a
decline in the relative importance of agriculture i.: its economy during the
last 20 years with reductions in proportionate value added, employment and
exports. Nevertheless, the agriculture sector still accounts for 17% of the
GDP, provides abouc 40% of all employment and accounts for about a third of
Morocco's merchanlise exports and 15% of total exports. The performance of
the sector has been uneven: following a period of rapid growth in the 1960s,
when agriculture grew at more than 3% p.a. and accounted for 25% of the total
growth in GDP, Moroccan agriculture has since developed slowly. During the
seventies and early eighties the sector's growth rate, held back by successive



- 10 -
droughts, was only 1.2%, among the slowest-growing relative to other middle
income countries.
33.      Since the mid-seventies, Moroco has seen a continued widening of the
"food gap", with its adverse consequences on the trade balance. Food
production has failed to keep pace with increased domestic demand generated by
a combination of rapid population growth (3.2X), a high rate of urbanization
(4.81) and declining real prices for food. Food imports have increased by
about 102 p.a. and the rate of self-sufficiency for key items has declined
over the last decaide (cereals from 86% to 75 X, edible oils from 32% to 19%).
Even for sugar and dairy products, for which domestic production has increased
by about 41 per annum since 1970, the level of imports has hardly declined.
Despite considerable forest resources, the net wood trade balance deficit has
also become significant ($50 M annually). Altogether, agricultural imports
now account for about 25% of the merchandise imports (approximately the same
level as petroleum imports). If present trends continue, food imports of
cereal- alone could reach 3.5 M tons by the year 2000 compared to an average
of 1.5 M tons in 1980-84; increasing incomes could generate additional animal
feed imports of the the same magnitude1' and imports of vegetable oil could
double to 400,000 tons.
34.      Agricultural exports have decreased in importance.  They consist
mainly of citrus fruits, vegetables, canned fish and wine. The total value of
agricultural exports has been stagnant during the last fifteen years, and the
agricultural trade balance has become one of deficits of about US$200 M each
year from being one of surplus up to 1974. Prospects for increasing
agricultural exports depend critically on Moroccan efforts to diversify to new
markets and maintain realistic exchange rates that pro-ide adequate export
incentives as opportunity for expansicn in the traditional markets is limited.
35.      This divergence between domestic production and consumption, between
agricultural imports and exports, has aggravated the balance of payments
situation. Continued stagnation in agricultural production would be a major
hurdle to Morocco's adjustment program. It would also have serious social
consequences: the rural population represents 60% of the total and for whom
agriculture represents 75-80X of the income. Any further acceleration of the
urbanization process would create employment pressures and involve increased
budgetary support for food subsidies. Thus, exploiting the full economic
potential of the agricultural resource base of Morocco has become a crucial
objective of the Government's overall adjustment program.
Resource Base and Structure
36.      Of Morocco's 60 M ha. of land only 7.7 M ha. have soils and moisture
suitable for cropping, with another 20 M ha. in semi arid or mountain regions
suitable only for grazing and forests. Of the cultivable land, about 50%
receives an erratic rainfall of under 400 mm, which can only be put under a
relatively high risk, low value barley/fallow cropping system. Only about
1.5 M ha are estimated to be irrigable economically. Fruits, vegetables,
1/ Some recent estimates made by the International Food Policy Research
Institute indicate potential cereals imports of up to 7 M tons by year
2000.



- 11 -
forage crops and industrial crops are grown under the more favorable irrigated
conditions; but cereals and pulses which dominate the cropping pattern on 80%
of the land are mostly grown under rainfed conditions where cultivation
practices remain traditional. Although modern technology is increasingly
evident in the higher rainfall areas, overall inadequate use is made of
fertilizers and pesticides, high yielding seeds and farm machinery compared
with the advantages of their use as has been demonstrated by research. The
following table provides basic statistics on the resource base and the
comparative use of modern inputs:
Resource Base and Comparative Use of Inputs:  Key indices
Morocco     AveraRe for the
Mediterranean Basin
Fertilizer: Kg/ha cultivated            33.5             115
Certified seeds Kg/ha cultivated        13.0             n.a.
% area with more than 400 mm
rainfall                              50%            n.a.
% irrigated area                         10%              16
Area cultivated/tractor (ha)           324               212
37.      The recent poor performance of Moroccan agriculture conceals highly
contrasting trends between the modern irrigated sector, which now covers 10%
of the cultivated land, and the traditional rainfed sector. Government has in
the past concentrated 60-75% of its investment resources (para. 44), most of
its producer subsidies (para. 55) and the best talent to manage the modern
irrigation perimeters. As a result, over the period 1971-1985, irrigated
output has grown at a respectable rate of 5.5% p.a. though it represents a
subsidized capital intensive type of development. The progress in use of
improved farming techniques and production inputs for commodities grown under
irrigated conditions has been important and an increasing proportion of the
value added is generated by the production in these perimeters from which
Morocco obtains about 45% of the total agricultural value added and 60% of its
agricultural exports.
38.      Rainfed cultivation, on the other hand, which involves 75% of the
rural population, and provides the bulk of the country's basic internal food
supply (cereals, pulses, nil seeds and red meat) remains largely traditional.
Output fluctuates widely with rainfall and there does not appear to be a trend
for improvement. Most farms are small (80% below 5 ha), fragmentation is a
serious problem (typically plots are of 0.6 ha) and farming is mainly
subsistence in nature. Productivity in general is constrained by a
combination of uneconomic land holdings and insecure tenures, poor farming
practices, lack of incentives for on-farm investments, inadequate use of
modern inputs and poor support services, except possibly in small pockets
represented by special development projects. With the influence of the
subsidized urban food progxam rapidly reaching rural areas, the need for
adequate producer incentives for cereal production is critical to obtain
higher productivity. The higher growth rate of irrigated crops compared with
rainfed crops is evident in the following table:



- 12 -
Growth Rate and Irrigated Production
% Grown in               Average
Commodity                        Irrigated areas           Growth Rates
(1971-83)
Sugar cane/beet                             90                        3.8
Vegetables                                  65                         7.1
Citrus Fruits                               50                        1.2
Milk                                        65                         3.8
Cereals                                     20                       -2.4
Meat                                        20                        0.8
Forestry products                            -                        0.5
Pulses                                                               -6.0
External Factors
39.      Proximity of Morocco to the EEC and the traditional trading links
developed with the Community have a strong influence on the sector's export
performance. A large percentage (80t) of Moroccan agricultural exports are
presently to the EEC, and EEC import policies, for example the cessation in
1982 of fruits and vegetables imports during certain months of the year, have
far reaching effect not only on agricultural trade, but also on farm level
cropping patters. An enlarged EEC, which could become more self-sufficient in
crops of vital interest to Morocco, would have important consequences for
Moroccan agriculture.
40.      Imports of agricultural commodities which are surplus in some
producing countries including the EEC and benefit from incentive pricing to
encourage exports, have an equally profound influence on the sector.
Operating under severe budgetary constraints, and given the slow pace of
changes in the subsidized urban food program, the Government has adopted short
term policies based on this availability of cheap imports. These policies
often conflict with policies to develop the domestic agricultural production
potential.  Implications of this conflict are seen in the imports of cereals
(para. 56), milk products (para. 85), livestock and some animal feeds
(para. 58), particularly during periods when exchange rates are overvalued
(para. 15). The pace at which the full economic potential of Morocco's
agricultural resources can be developed depends as much on these external
factors and macro-economic policies as on policies within the sector.
Potential for Increased Production
41.      Morocco's agricultural potential is far from being fully realized.
The technical and economic ceilings of input use to increase yields could be
substantially increased in the rainfed areas as well as the irrigated areas.
In the former, despite natural constraints, major productivity improvement
would result from widespread introduction of improved farming techniques
including mechanization of land preparation, use of modern inputs, and a more
intensive and rational land use through an integration of crop/animal
production. Most of these increases in productivity can be expected to occur



- 13 -
in the medium to high rainfall areas-". In the irrigated areas, there is
also considerable room for increase in yieldsA', for production growth
through greater intensification in the existing schemes and shifts in cropping
patterns. About 20Z of the already developed irrigation potential lies
unutilized due to lack of complementary infrastructure. Similarly, cropping
intensity in the areas already equipped for irrigation averages 90X while it
could be in excess of 130% offering a scope for low cost increases in
productivity. Potential for economically developing additional irrigation
capacity is estimated to be about 300,000 ha, and another 100,000 ha of
presently rainfed areas could be developed through small and medium scale
irrigation. Benefits from better maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
irrigation schemes would also be considerable. Together these could represent
over the next decade, an impact equivalent to a doubling of the currently
irrigated area. Potential for doubling forage production and output per
livestock has also been demonstrated.2-
42.      The pace of achievement of this potential is linked to the pace with
which existing constraints are removed to facilitate growth. A new
agricultural policy and a corresponding adjustment program, based on the
analysis of past performance and identification of constraints, has been
designed by the Government in consultation with the Bank. The new policy
recognizes the need for restructuring of the investment and expenditure
programs to favor viable, quick maturing investments, along with an emphasis
on ensuring adequate financing of key operating and maintenance functions.
Greater selectivity and better targeting of financial incentives and greater
private sector participation are to be sought. Efforts are needed at
increasing the efficiency of agricultural support services, and transfer to
the private sector or farmer cooperatives of those services that are
commercially viable.  In the rainfed sector, improved performance requires a
package of policies designed to overcome constraints to efficient land use,
but also the means to improve production incentives. Finally, improved
institutional capability to analyze policy options and to strengthen the
management of the agricultural programs and projects, is called for.
1/ Potential for increasing yields in rainfed areas of Morocco is evident
from results already being obtained:
Demonstration
Average    Best Farmers          Farms
Hard Wheat       1.0           1.8               2.1
Soft Wheat       0.9           2.0               2.4
Barley           1.0           1.4                1.2
Maize            0.7            1.5              1.7
2/ In the irrigated areas, average yields obtained compare with the best
areas as follows:
ORMVA Average    Yields in Better ORMVAs
Cereals                 1.5 t/ha             3.4 t/ha
Sugar beet             35                   62
Alfalfa                45                   66
Potato                 15                   25
Cotton                  1.5                  3.4
31 Yield per animal is 117 kg of meat and 782 litres of milk compa.ved
to a mediterranean basin average of 142 and 1585 respectively.



- 14 -
PART IV. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Origin and Objectives
43.      The outline of the Government's medium-term sector adjustment program
was developed during the late 1983 and early 1984 in response to the worsening
macro economic situation, (para. 13). For this, Bank assistance was available
to the Government in the form of sector strategy discussions, and assessments
of policy constraints facing the sector. The medium-term program for
adjustments covers a 5-year period and the Loan would support the first phase
of reforms over a period of 18 months. The specific action plan to implement
the adjustment program described in this Chapter, are discussed in Chapter V.
Prime objectives of the sector adjustment program, which re-inforce the
overall structural adjustment program being undertaken by Morocco (para. 18),
are as follows:
(a) to achieve a restructuring of public investment and expenditure
program towards quick maturing and high return investments while
assuring adequate funding for maintaining the already established
productive infrastructure;
(b) to introduce corrections in the prices and incentives framework to
encourage optimal shifts in agricultural activities, while
maintaining adequate farmer incentives in those areas likely to be
the primary sources of future agricultural growth;
(c) to strengthen the agricultural support services offered by the
Government while rationalizing the role of the public sector in
provision of commercially viable services, and improving cost
recovery in others; and
(d)  to build-up institutional capacity for agricultural policy planning
and analysis, strengthen the organization and structure of the
agricultural sector and to take steps aimed at resolving basic issues
of improving productivity of land use and protecting the natural
resource base.
Details of supporting programs and policies are in a separate Technical
Support Volume available on request; the outline of this document appear in
Annex VI. A suimmary is given below.
B. Restructuring Public Investments and Expenditures
44.      During the 1970s, the level of public investment in agriculture
(including dams, most of which multipurpose) has been quite high, representing
roughly 20% of agricultural GDP, and over 20% of total public investmeat.
However, priority was given to the development of capital-intensive large
scale irrigation schemes, which received over 65% of total allocations. The
1978-80 Development Plan, while it recognized the need for the development of
rainfed agriculture, failed to achieve a shift in investment patterns, because
of the momentum gained in the execution of the irrigation program and the lack
of a clear development strategy for the rainfed sector. The 1981-85
Development Plan involves a significant reallocation of public investment in
favor of rainfed agriculture, livestock and forestry, while emphasizing, for
the irrigated sector, an expanded program of low cost, quick maturing small



- 15 -
and medium-scale irrigation and the completion of large scale projects where
water resources had already been deve'loped. The share allocated to
large-scale-irrigation development was down to about 40S, while propos6d
investments in rainfed areas were almost doubled, more closely reflecting
their relative importance and potential.
45.      Stringent budgetary constraints emerged in 1982 and required a
significant scaling down of overall public investments. Following a Review of
the Plan by the Bank in late 1981,-L' the Government started to restructure
its investment program. A review during appraisal of actual expenditures for
1982 and 19E3, indicates that considerable progress was made in adjusting the
ongoing public investment program in agriculture. Specifically, two large
irrigation projects, two sugar mills and some modern high cost irrigation
schemes were postponed.-' The review also revealed that the restructuring
process was likely to extend beyond the Plan period. Among the issues which
were identified were: (a) a lack of methodology and clear criteria to guide
project selection and revision, and to evaluate activities of a program
nature; (b) variable implementation capacity among agencies and units of the
Ministry of Agriculture leading to significant discrepancies in implementation
rates; (c) a chronic imbalance between available budget resources and approved
project requirements translating into an overall slowdown in the
implementation of the investment program; and (d) the large proportion of
ongoing operations for which funds had been committed, thus maki.Lg it
difficult to rapidly re-adjust the direction of the program.
46.      A significant proportion of the investment program (about 60Z)
consists of general activities which do not fall into a project format, and
those that do, but for externally funded projects, are not routinely subject
to critical evaluations of their economic impact. Regarding implementation
capacity, the regional agencies in charge of implementing most development
programs suffer from limitations of poor organizational, structure,
inadequately trained staff and lack of autonomy, while the agencies in charge
of large-scale irrigation development are better endowed with funds and
skilled staff. As a result, despite attempts to shift the investment program
towards rainfed development, the review showed a shift of actual expenditures
back towards large irrigation (during the 1981-84 perizd, against an initial
allocation of only about 40t of the total funds, share of actual expenditures
for irrigation was about 53%; the same figures for rainfed programs were 50%
and 37%, respectively).
47.      Under its agriculture sector adjustment program, the Government's
objective is to maximize the contribution to agricultural growth of the
reduced level of available funds for public expenditures. This will involve:
(a) a strengthening of the investment planning process including the
application of specific methodologies for itivestment programming in
1/ MOROCCO: Priorities for Public Sector Investment (1981-85),
Report No. 4156-MOR.
2/ Projects which were postponed were: Plaines et Basses Collines in Loukkos
(except the flood protection works), Sectors N2/Na in Gharb STI for Large
irrigation; Grou and Oued Hachef in modern medium scale irrigation; SURAC
II and Loukkos for sugarmills.



- 16 -
agriculture; (b) the strengthening of implementation capacities fcr rainfed
development programs; (c) a redirection of government resources towards
support for private investment and technological change in agriculture; and
(d) the setting up of institutional mechanisms to ensure adequate funding in
the investment budget for maintenance of productive infrastructure. Under its
overall adjustment process, the Government is undertaking studies to make
reforms in the present budgeting system.
48.      Utmost priority has been given to weed out low priority operations to
ensure adequate funding and timely completion of essential projects and a
significant restructuring has taken place in the following areas:
(a) priority funding has been granted to a core group of ongoing priority
projects and activities which serve the essential sectoral
development objectives (Table 5). This core group, which represents
about 55% of the total agricultural investment budget, accounted for
over 70% of actual expenditures in 1984;
(b)  no new projects have been started in 1984, and all budgetary
appropriations for new projects (representing about 20% of the total
1984 budget) have been frozen;
(c)  most low-priority activities and programs,'- accounting for about
20% of the budget but involving heavy recurrent costs, have been
slowed down or stopped (general administrative infrastructure,
subsidy programs to livestock importers and agro-industries, public
farm mechanization services, etc.); and
(d) the 1985 Investment Budget has been designed to continue these
restructuring efforts: the shares allocated to the key subsectors
are consistent with the recommendations for near term allocation by
the 1984 Joint Investment Review. While the total allocations to the
sector have been maintained in real terms at the 1984 level, for the
group of core projects the allocations in 1985 have been increased by
37% by reducing the allocations to the remaining investment budget by
21% (Table 5).
49.      The principles established for the future investment programs confirm
these policy directions:
(a) in the large irrigation program, priority would be given to equipping
for irrigation those areas already commanded by existing dams or
where the primary distribution infrastructure is already in operation
so as to eliminate the backlog of about 60,000 ha of land waiting to
be put under irrigation; to place emphasis on low-energy consuming
technology; and to limit any new investments to developing irrigation
potential in low rainfall zones; (an estimated 200,000 ha or 50% of
total remaining potential is in these zones);
1/ Because of their advanced stage of implementation and the availability of
a significant proportion of external concessional finance for the
remaining expenditures, two irrigation projects in Northern Morocco
outside the list of core projects have continued to receive budgetary
allocations.



- 17 -
(b) in the small and medium scale irrigation subsector, priority would be
given to the rehabilitation of traditional schemes (30,000 ha) which
typically have high economic rate of return, (15-25Z compared to
8-14X for the typical large irrigation projects) rapid production
build-up and greater cost sharing by beneficiaries; new 'modern'
medium scale projects which have development cost per ha
(US$4-7,000/ha) comparable to the large irrigation sector, would be
postponed;
(c) in the livestock program, components of low priority (public sector
fattening units, large breeding farms and slaughter houses) would be
postponed, in favour of completing rapidly the investments in vaccine
production; construction of new milk collection centers would be
postponed in favour of making operational the 38 centers still
inoperative, and until the low capacity utlization (55X) of 230
existing ones is improved; programs for diversification of animal
feed resources and range land improvement would be expanded;
(d) in agricultural extension, investments in building new CTs/CMVs and
purchasing additional tractors for the public sector farm
mechanization service, would be postponed/abandoned, in favour of
investments in greater mobility, upgrading and training of existing
extension staff;
Ce) in research, investments would be concentrated in a reduced network
of 22 stations of INRA, and on selected priority research topics;
Cf) in the forestry sector, a reforestation target of 30,000 ha/yr would
receive priority funding, and sylvopastorai improvement programs
would be accelerated to 10,000 ha/yr; and
Cg) operating budgets for rehabilitation and maintance of productive
infrastructure would be monitored for their adequacy, particularly
for the maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and expenditures of
extension activities in rainfed areas.
50.      While completing the restructuring of the ongoing investment and
expenditure program, the Government intends to initiate a series of actions to
improve public investment programming and implementation over the medium
term. To strengthen the planning and budgeting process, the Government has
requested further assistance from the Bank and discussions are under way
regarding improvements in the planning and budgeting systems. With respect to
a methodology and criteria for investment programming in agriculture, a major
study on options and investment priorities in irrigation development,
cofinanced by the Bank, UNDP and the French Government, is nearing
completion. This study provides a comprehensive analytical framework for
investment programming and priority ranking of projects according to key
economic criteria for large and small-scale irrigation. Its initial findings
concur with the principles above. For other subsectors, the Government aims
to develop similar approaches: major studies are underway in cold storage,
dairy production, agro-industry, research and extension, and forest resource
management. These improvements in investment decision-making will require a
strengthening of the planning and policy analysis capabilities of the Ministry
of Agriculture (details of actions are in para. 94).



- 18 -
51.      The Government has commissioned a study to review its Agricultural
Investment Code which establishes its policy of incentives for private
investment, and is designing a major reform to improve the selectivity,
targetting, institutional channels and cost recovery for existing financial
incentives to promote greater private investment in agriculture, such as in
on-farm storage, mechanization, and land improvement (details of actions are
in para. 88). It is also establishing a stronger analytical base to review
the justification for temporary financial incentives for specific agricultural
investments, taking into account the existing pricing distortions and programs
for their elimination. These efforts are expected to be accomplished by
mid-1986. Finally, organizational reforms are proposed (details of actions
are in para. 96) to improve implementation capacity in rainfed areas.
C. Re-orienting Prices and Incentives Framework
52.      Government intervention in agriculture through regulation of foreign
and domestic trade, taxes, subsidies, and price fixing has had an important
impact on the incentives regime in the sector particularly on resource
allocation within the sector, among products and farming systems. The
Government is now undertaking detailed studies L' for assessing the impact
of various Covernment interventions in the sector. Preliminary analysis by
the Bank shows that: (a) overall, the sector has not suffered from excessive
negative protection as compared to industry, and the domestic terms of trade
for agriculture have not evolved particularly unfavorably relative to the
other sectors of the economy; (b) however, within the agricultural sector,
relative protection varies significantly, with, on the one hand, a net
negative protection to cereals and rainfed farming for which the country
enjoys a significant comparative advantage, and, on the other hand, a large
net positive protection to irrigated farming, particularly to certain
agro-industrial crops, the production of which does not make an efficient use
of domestic resources; (c) these distortions, besides affecting optimal
resource allocation, have worsened income distribution; and (d) currency
overvaluation and trade controls have been major disincentives to agricultural
exports and major incentives to imports.
Price & Subsidy Interventions
53.      Government's price and subsidy interventions in agriculture attempt
to satisfy multiple and often conflicting objectives, which are to: (a)
provide adequate incentives to producers in order to raise productivity and
rural incomes; (b) supply the urban work force with basic food products at low
prices; (c) insulate producers and consumers from short-term international
price fluctuations; and, (d) raise revenues for Government. These objectives
are pursued through fixed producer prices for buying all or part of
agricultural output, consumer price controls, input subsidies, charges on
public sector services and regulation of foreign trade.
1/ The study financed by USAID under TORs prepared by the Bank is being
monitored by a Steering Committee headed by the Minister of Agriculture.
The draft report is expected in September '85 (para. 106).



- 19 -
54.      Producer prices are fixed or supported at minimum fixed levels by
selective purchasing by the Government for a number of basic products
(cereals, oilseeds, cotton, milk, sugar beet and cane) and have generally been
maintained at or above world market levels at the official exchange rate.
However, official floor prices for cereals are rarely, if ever, available to
farmers (para. 81). Fruit, vegetables and meat prices are not regulated.
55.      Input subsidies to agriculture, amounted to about DH 1,150 M (US$118
M) in 1984, of which 30% were for fertilizers, 37% for irrigation water, 18%
for animal feed (wheat bran and sugar beet pulp),1' 5% for agricultural
machinery and 6% for certified seeds. In addition, subsidies on other
conmercial services to farmers in the irrigated areas amounted to about DH 180
million (US$19 million), and subsidies for on-farm investments to about DH 200
million (US$21 million). It is estimated that about 70% of total input
subsidies have benefitted irrigated farming systems, which represent less than
10% of the agricultural land and contribute for about 45% of the value-added
in agriculture. Output subsidies through price support programs during the
same year amounted to about DH 900 M (US$ 95 M), of which more than 80% went
to sugar producers and the remainder to cereals (mostly soft wheat) and milk
producers. Overall, producer subsidies over the last few years have
represented 8 to 12% of the agricultural GDP and roughly 80% have benefitted
farmers in the irrigated areas but despite these significant public outlays,
the production response has not been satisfactory.
Terms of Trade & Relative Protection Patterns
56.      Over the last two decades, agriculture as a whole has not experienced
extensive negative effective protection when compared with industry and terms
of trade have not been turned against the agricultural sector as a whole.
Within the agricultural sector, relative protection levels are markedly
different among crops and farming systems. The net taxation of cereals
production and rainfed fanning result from conflicting macro-economic, food
and agricultural policies. The low level of consumer prices for flour has
triggered an increase in imports which, given the ineffectiveness of the
producer price support program, have tended to displace domestic production.
Access to cheap imports, made possible by the fierce competition among major
food exporters, has led to actual CIF prices being 20 to 30X below world
market prices, and complemented by a overvalued currency, has in the recent
past enabled the Government to keep urban food prices down while containing
the budgetary impact of a rapidly expanding food distribution program.2/
Therefore, although the level of official producer prices is close to world
market equivalents at official exchange rates, actual producer prices are
30-40% below official prices in good production years (para. 81c). Since at
the same time the bulk of input subsidies is captured by irrigated farming
(para. 55), rainfed cereals production has been consistently penalized during
1/ In the form of price controls and government-managed distribution.
2/ Consumer subsidies amounted to about DH 1,500 M (US$170 M) in 1984,
compared to only DH 850 M in 1982/83. This went for the most part to
flour and edible oils. This amount is almost equal to total estimated
producer subsidies (see para. 55).



- 20 -
the 1970s;.L/ preliminary estimates of effective protection rates have ranged
from -20 to -101 for different cereals, production region and farming
technologies, which in view of the average protection in the agricultural
sector of about 251, implies a net negative protection in the range of -30% to
-451. Similar pattern and conclusions could apply to edible oils, for which
Morocco also has a comparative cost advantage.
57.      On the other hand, irrigated farming in general and a few
agro-industrial crops in particular, benefit from a high level of protection.
This result from the high concentration of input and investment subsidies for
all irrigated production and of price support programs for sugar crops.
Farmers in the irrigated areas have been receiving implicit and explicit
subsidies at a rate of about DH 1,600 million per year (US$180M) over the past
few years, and sugar producers have captured around 60% of that amount.
Initial estimate of effective protection rates for irrigated crops appear well
above the average for the agricultural sector, with particularly high levels
for sugar beet. In addition, preliminary analysis shows that the country
appears to have a comparative advantage in producing irrigated citrus, olives,
tomatoes and cotton, though there are serious export marketing problems
developing in these crops .
58.      Government's market intervention in the livestock subsector through
price and distribution controls on certain animal feeds (agro-industrial
by-products) also tend to reinforce the relatively high protection of
irrigated farming systems, since over two thirds of dairy production comes
from the irrigated areas. In addition, the consequences of price and
distribution controls of high value animal feed (mostly sugar beet pulp, wheat
and imported barley, and sale of imported animal feed often below domestic
prices, are: (a) these high value products are wasted when fed to low
potential animals; they should rather be incorporated into balanced rations by
the domestic concentrate feed industry which now operates at 40Z capacity,
basing 75S of its production on imported materials and targeting 95X of this
to poultry feed; (b) this is a major disincentive to forage production, since
bran and dehydrated pulp are sold at prices per forage unit (DH 1.05) lower
than straw (DH 1.20); (c) it reduces the profitability of sugar and flour
mills representing a transfer of about DH 220ML' mostly to irrigated area
livestock producers; and (d) adverse income distribution effects, since the
users who have access to the controlled distribution system are the intensive
modern cnits. Conscious of this, the Government has been implementing a
policy of correcting the relative prices for feeds, and last increased the
price of bran and pulp by 60-80% in January 1984, accompanied by a major rise
in consumer milk prices.
59.      Trade controls and currency overvaluation throughout the last decade
have adversely affected agricultural exports and been a reflection of the
general bias towards import substitution. Over the last 15 years, a real term
1/ Estimates for 1984 show that farmers in rainfed sector have been losing a
producer surplus of about DH830 M, mostly from subsidization of cereals &
edible oil imports.
2/ DH60 M from consumers (sugar) and DHl60 M from rainfed producers (flour).



- 21 -
decline of 22% the agricultural value-added by exports was associated with a
comparable fall in Dihram denominated export prices as compared to domestic
producer prices. More realistic exchange rate policies expected to be adopted
in the future should help correct this adverse situation.
60.      The Government's agricultural adjustment program recognizes that its
macro-economic interventions need to be more consistent with the objective to
fully develop the potential of the agricultural sector. Since agricultural
growth potential in Morocco lies on the one hand in the integration of cereals
and livestock production in the medium to high rainfall areas and on the other
hand in a more rational use of irrigated land, the primary objective is to
steadily restructure the pricing and incentives framework in the sector so as
to maintain the overall incentives for agriculture, while making the framework
more conducive to faster growth in rainfed areas and to desirable shifts in
irrigated cropping patterns, particularly reduced emphasis on sugar production
in marginal areas. This objective is grounded both on economic grounds of
long-term comparative advantage considerations and growth potential and on
equity grounds since incomes in rainfed agriculture are substantially lower
than in the irrigated sector.
61.      Reduction of excessive protection to irrigated farming systems and
encouragement to better use of domestic resources in the dairy sector, would
be essentially achieved through gradual adjustments in costs of inputs and
services which are preferentially consumed in irrigated farming, so as to
bring them closer to their real economic value. These changes would also
induce desirable changes in cropping patterns. The changes established in the
Letter of Sector Development Policy would involve: (a) the gradual
elimination of fertilizer subsidies; (b) fuller recovery of water charges; (c)
charging at real cost of the various commercial services provided by the
ORMVAs; and (d) the phasing out of price and distribution controls on animal
feed (sugarbeet pulp and bran). Government's objective is to eliminate the
fertilizer subsidy entirely by the 1989/90 crop year and recent actions have
already been taken to increase prices by 35% in 1983 (details of actions to be
supported under ASAL are in para. 106). In view of the input-output price
relationships prevailing in Morocco of fertilizer use patterns in the country
by crop and production system, the elimination of the subsidy is not expected
to adversely affect production. First, for productions which deserve to be
encouraged (soft wheat), the fertilizer subsidy does not cost less than the
output price support needed to achieve a specific expansion of output l';
second, crop-fertilizer price ratios in Morocco are high, and value-cost
ratios, which incorporate the factor of crop-responsiveness, are also higher
than the threshold levels considered necessary to induce fertilizer use -/
1/ There could be a case for a limited subsidy restricted to producers of
traditional cereals (such as barley) which have a low price elasticity of
supply; however, such a targeted subsidization scheme would be difficult
to operate.
2/ These ratios fall to more iarginal levels (around 2) for farmers facing
high production and marketing risks such as in the lower rainfall areas.
It does not seem, however, that the price factor is a primary constraint
to fertilizer use in these areas.



- 22 -
and third, the income distribution effect of the present subsidy is highly
regressive, with over 60X benefitting farmers in the large irrigated areas
where average incomes are higher than in rainfed areas. As regards recovery
of water charges, substantial improvements in their level and automatic
increase have been introduced in the recent past and a five-year action
program to increase actual collections to reach at least 90S of amounts due
and payable, has been developed (details of actions are in para. 108). As for
the commercial services provided by the public sector in the large irrigated
schemes, government's objectives are to progressively transfer to the private
and cooperative sectors all the commercial activities they can manage and
gradually reach full costing of the commercial services still to be provided
by the ORNMAs (para. 92d). Regarding distortions in the dairy sector,
Government's medium-'term objective is to eliminate the intervention on
controlling the prices of selected livestock feed by December 1987. This
would encourage the development of forage production and storage as well as a
better utilization of underutilized low value feeds by phasing out its
intervention on the wheat bran and beet pulp market and allowing prices to
reflect the real value of these feeds (details of the actions are in para.
107).
62.      Parallel with the reduction in fertilizer subsidies, the Government
intends to use the resources thus saved to operate a more effective program of
price support to rural producers to effectively make available to them at
least the prevailing world prices. Provision of adequate incentives to
cereals production in the rainfed sector would be achieved by: (a) gradually
reducing the magnitude of consumer subsidies on flour and assuring that
imported animal feed is sold at or above the floor prices; (b) maintaining
official floor prices at levels high enough to induce production and
marketable surpluses; and (c) improving the effectiveness of the producer
price support program for grains. The consumer subsidy on flour represents
the single most important disincentive to cereals production, and although its
phasing out is likely to extend over several years, initial steps are being
taken. Steps to ensure that imported livestock feeds are resold in the
domestic markets above support prices are also being taken. As regards the
producer floor price policy, the Government intends to set and revise annually
the official producer prices, taking into account two set of criteria: (a)
the evolution of world market prices and real exchange rate movements, and (b)
the evolution of input-output price ratios at various levels of technology,
particularly during the period of phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy. The
objective would be to move these prices steadily towards at least the world
market equivalents. Actions have already been taken to increase official
producer prices by about 20% in 1985. Finally, an effective operation of the
price support program is a necessary complement to the above, and Government's
medium-term objective is to redesign the present system by expanding the role
of private sector in domestic procurement of the marketable surplus of cereals
to ensure the availability of the minimum support prices at the farm lev..l and
to improve the coordination of imports and domestic procurement (details of
actions are in para. 80).
D. Strengthening Supporting Services
and Rationaizing the Role of Public Sector
63.      The agriculture sector is marked by an excessive dependence of
farmers on support and marketing services provided by the Government directly
or by its agencies. These services operate under inherent constraints -



- 23 -
financial and managerial - which impair their effectiveness while at the same
time, due to inadequate cost recovery policy, discourage the development of
alternative sources of supply. Under the assessments made for designing the
adjustment program of the Government, restructuration of the role of the
public sector is planned to increase efficiency of services, reduce avoidable
cost and improve cost recovery in major support service functions. Action
programs have been prepared to improve extension and research, livestock
services, input and crop marketing, institutional credit and management of
irrigation.
64.      Agricultural Extension.  At present, agricultural extension services
do not provide for an adequate transfer of available technology to farmers and
need strengthening. Two parallel systems exist, one for irrigated areas as
part of the 9 Irrigation Offices (ORMVAs) operating out of 140 field offices
(CMVs) and another for the rainfed areas as part of the 28 Provincial
Agricultural Directorates (DPAs), operating out of 117 field Offices (CTs).
The effectiveness of the general extension services, except for some crop
specific efforts, for example in sugarbeet or vegetables, is constrained by:
(a) an unfocused organization structure at Rabat under which land reform,
cooperative development and crop extension activities are grouped
together, and poor management of extension at the DPA where financial
resources, technical direction and administrative supervision come
from different directorates at Rabat;
(b) lack of focus on extension activities, with field level staff
devoting nearly all their attention to input supply, mechanical
cultivation, production and harvest scheduling and statistical work;
(c) lack of technical specialists with the role and expertise to develop
simple, effective extension messages"' for extension staff whose
number is, in any case, inadequate:
Extension Staffing
Irrigated      Rainfed
Number of Offices/DPAs                     9          28
Number of Technical Specialists           42          77
Number of "Extension" staff            1,010         910
Ratio Technical:  Extension staff       1:25        1:14
Ratio Extension staff: farmers           550       1,960
(d) lack of appropriate training since little on-the-job or pre-service
training is available: average in service training period is only 6
days per year in the CMVs and only 3 in the CTs;
1/ Simple low-cost initial extension messages would include improved land
preparation to conserve moisture, more appropriate fertilizer for specific
zones applications, use of weedicides and better seeds, improved water
management in irrigated areas, which together could yield impressive
results.



- 24 -
(e) lack of infrastructure particularly field housing, and mobility:
only 351 of the extension staff in the rainfed areas have motorcycles;
(f) inadequate operating funds in rainfed areas, funds available for
extension activities-L  including travel have dwindled to about
DR6000/yr per technical staff; and
(g)  a breakdown of the traditional linkages between extension and
research due to major organizational changes in MARA.
65.      Given budget constraints, the Govemnment's adjustment program is to
strengthen extension activities in three phases. Under phase I to be launched
immediately in 28 selected zones, low cost changes would be undertaken in the
field organization structure, work programs, mobility and training of
available staff. Provision of farm mechanization service by extension staff
is to be completely phased out before 1987. Action is underway to appoint
head of extension of field of offices and create a team of technical
specialists at DPA/ORMVA level, and introduce practical extension training
curriculum in the agricultural colleges. Integration of livestock extension
and forage production with crop extension is also programmed. Under Phase II,
the same approach would be extended to cover all zones by 1987. Under the
final phase, new trained extension staff would be recruited to reach an
extension worker: farmer ratio of 1:320, housing infrastructure built, and
necessary reorganization done at headquarters. Adequate financing for Phase I
has been confirmed by the Government (further details of actions are in para.
114), while detailed implementation plans for the last two phases are to be
developed by early 1986. Once the essential restructuring of the system has
been completed by 1987, linkage with research would be strengthened by
training of extension staff at selected research stations and involving
extension services in developing research objectives.
66.      ARricultural Research.  Stagnation of Moroccan agriculture has been
paralleled by stagnation in research; the last major research achievement is
considered to have been in the mid-seventies, when a few improved wheat
varieties were introduced. Agricultural research is dispersed over different
institutes, departments, universities, ORMVAs and DPAs. While research in
fruits, vegetables, sugar and citrus has been active and successful, little
success has been achieved from dispersed efforts in oilseeds, fodder crops,
and winter and spring cereals. The national research effort is poorly
focused, inadequately funded and coordinated and the few results obtained are
insufficiently disseminated. To overcome this situation the Government had
established in 1981, an autonomous national research institute, (INRA) and,
following a diagnostic study completed by ISNAR in 1984, the Government has
prepared a stategy to overcome the constraints which have prevented INRA from
fulfilling its important role.
67.      Among the major constraints affecting INRA functioning had been the
erratic flow of budgetary allocations and high turnover of its staff due to
low salaries. Although INRA had been established as a public enterprise in
1981, only since January 1, 1985, has the Government authorized it to be
1/ Including tractor services, input marketing and other functions.



- 25 -
funded directly from the Ministry of Finance; at the same time, the recent
upgrading of its staff to reflect its status as a public enterprise, should
help resolve the issue of staff turn-over.
68.      The development of national research priorities and the definition of
the role of each participating institution in these, is the major task ahead.
Under the research master plan, now under preparation, the Government has made
arrangements under terms of reference approved by the Bank, for an expert team
to develop national research priorities over the next 5 years, ensuring
greater focus and selectivity of research activities. The Government's
adjustment program also aims to strengthen the system of coordination among
institutestagencies undertaking research to reduce waste and duplication and
encourage better sharing of research results and setting of research
objectives. For this, research agreements would be signed between INRA and
individual agencies executing research funded by the Government. Increased
funding would be provided for high priority research projects to be executed
by various agencies, once INRA's internal reorganization and definition of
national research priorities has been completed.
69.      To strengthen the system for management of scientific research, the
Government intends to complete by 1986 INRA restructuring as recommended by
the expert team from ISNAR. The new structure emphasizes scientific freedom
and research by objectives, it relies on a system of technical program
sub-committees to manage and monitor research programs and aims to reduce
multiple administrative control over scientific units.
70.      INRA's scientific staff which number 230 are mostly (52%) located at
Rabat, while its 65 field stations lack adequate scientific talent to execute
research programs; apart from rigid centralized research programming, this
results in a poor supervision of research effort due to inadequate operating
budgets for headquarter staff. The Government aims to reduce the research
station network of INRA to about half to ensure that each station has the
critical mass (3-4) of scientific staff and to increase the operating budget
available per station. The land in these surplus research stations has so far
been devoted to commercial seed production, which absorbs about 30Z of INRA
operating budget and staff time. To ensure a sharper focus on research, the
Government's strategy is to limit INRA's role to mother seed production only,
transferring its other seed activity to farmers or cooperatives already active
in seed production (details of the actions are in para. 115).
71.      Livestock Services.  Government provides a host of livestock
services, ranging from essentials like preventive animal health care to
commercial activities such as feed distribution. While the good growth in the
livestock production of recent years is partly attributable to this expanded
service network, the budgetary burden has reached such levels that financial
uncertainties have begun to affect the quality of service: use of AI services
has dwindled from 43,000 to 34,500 and natural service from 32,400 to 26,700
between 1977 to 1983. Recognizing the impressive growth achieved in the
poultry sub-sector after the liberalization of the industry, including support
services, the sector adjustment program emphasizes the transfer to the private
sector and cooperatives of those Government services which they could provide
effectively; specifically, health services, breeding services and feed prices
(the last is discussed under Prices in para. 58).



- 26 -
72.      Animal health services, which take up 20% of the Livestock
Department's operating budget are thinly spread: each agent covers 25,000
heads of sheep and 6,000 cattle for both preventive and diagnostic treatment.
No parallel private service is permitted. Although the unit costs per animal
theoretically covered are reasonable (DH4.30 head/yr) considerable
improvements can be achieved in current high mortality of the young (12%) and
the adult (6%), in low fertility (55%) and other technical parameters (average
production per lactation of 530 liters). The Government' adjustment strategy
is to establish a system under which private veterinarians are able to work
under contract with the Government to provide the essential preventive
services while undertaking, on a full cost recovery and competitive basis,
individualized animal health care for livestock raisers. Availability of
necessary medicines in the open market is assured. The Government has already
established the legal framework for the system, fixed fee levels for
contractual services and assisted veterinarians, particularly the 40 new
graduates produced each year, to sign up. Based on the initial response, it
is expected that a country wide system could be establishled by 1989.
73.      Government breeding services are offered free of charge.  Artificial
Insemination (AI) services which are provided from 24 sub-centers by 62
inseminators have, after an initial growth, faced a decline and now represent
barely 20% of the annual matings even for the 115,000 pure bred cows. Budget
difficulties have reduced the operational flexibility to provide timely,
on-the-spot services and the average cost of each AI has reached DH340 while
commercial services, in irrigated areas, have been demonstrated to be viable
at half this cost. The Government's sector adjustment program aims to
transfer all artificial insemination services to livestock groups or
cooperatives, and to develop by then a pilot program to also transfer some of
the natural service centers, primarily located in remote rainfed areas.
Meanwhile, the program to import catttle for production purposes has been
terminated in 1985 (details of actions are in para. 112).
74.      Fertilizer Marketing.  Since 1974, after upheavals in the
international fertilizer markets following oil price increases, the Government
has regulated the import and domestic trade, has participated directly in
domestic marketing through FERTIMA, a state-owned company and has subsidized
fertilizer use (para. 55). FERTIMA has played a useful role in developing the
domestic market from 160,000 nutrient tons in 1974 to 287,000 nutrient tons in
1984, a growth rate of 6%, just below the average for the mediterranean basin
countries. However, the consumption at 33.5 kg/ha of arable land is still
below the average of 122 kg/ha for the mediterranean basin countries. Because
irrigated areas benefit from well developed arrangements for adequate and
timely supply of inputs through the ORMVAs (para. 90), roughly 50% of the
fertilizer consumption is on 700,000 ha of irrigated lands, concentrated on
sugarbeet, fruits and vegetables. For the rainfed areas and basic cereal
crops, the present retail distribution system is not as effective.
75.      FERTIMA's import monopoly, its monopoly over the domestic sale of
locally produced phosphate fertilizer, its simultaneous involvement in
wholesale and retail trade, and the system of fixed distribution allowances:
these factors have led to an increase in FERTIMA's proportion of total sales
to 55% in 1983 from 42% in 1980. These factors have also discouraged private
sector from developing a wide distribution network, led to a shortage of



- 27 -
storage downstream, closer to the user-' and left many farmers without
assured and timely access to fertilizer. In addition, a review of the
operation of FERTIMA's 250 remaining retail outlets, shows that costs of
providing the infrastructure and staffing required for the operation has
become much higher (12Z of final price) compared to a 52 margin normal in the
trade, and are no longer justified in areas where fertilizer use has become
well established.
76.      Regarding the management of fertilizer import and wholesale
distribution, the Governmenit objective is to adequately meet the evolving
demand for fertilizer and adjust quickly to any changes in international
markets. The Government intends to gradually put the public and private
sector on an equal fouting as regards import procurement, distribution as well
as the responsibility holding of national security stocks in view of wide
variations in demand from one year to another. To avoid a disruption of
supply while maintaining a steady transition to a more competitive market
structure, two essential measures have recently been taken. First is the
establishment of a formal coordination mechanism with private sector blenders
and distributors for scheduling and delivery of imports; second is the
creation of a special allowance (1% of the reference price) to encourage the
maintenance of security stocks. The latter accompanied by medium term credit
would also encourage downstream storage construction. The Goverment is also
evaluating the advantages of permitting direct imports by private sector over
the present system of coordinated contracting for imports and exports through
FERTIMA, and its parent company OCP, once fertilizer subsidies are eliminated
(para. 61).
77.      Government strategy is to strengthen the retail level distribution
system, particularly in the rainfed areas, by withdrawing FERTIMA and
encouraging greater private sector participation. To this end, FERTIMA's
retailing would be limited to areas where the market requires further
development before commercial operations can start. Outlets located in zones,
where private sector retailing has become established (2 retailers in a
commune) and where, as a result, FERTIMA's volume has reduced to less than an
average of 3OT/yr, would be closed down (details of actions under ASAL are in
para. 116). To ensure adequate profitability for the private sector,
Government's aim is to eliminate the system of uniform margins, and deregulate
domestic marketing once subsidies are eliminated. Meanwhile, to ensure
appropriate incentives to private traders to expand their operations,
distribution margins have been raised by 40% since September 1983 and an
indexation formula for their regular revision has also been developed and was
used in De-ember 1984. Analysis of the investment and operating costs of a
typical retail operation show that the new margins (which work out to about
13% for the typical private operator) are adequate.
78.      Seed Production & Marketing:  Production or import of seeds znd
planting material for most industrial crops is already in the private sector
which operates reasonably efficiently. For cereal and some forage crops the
production and marketing of certified seeds is carried out, as in many
developing countries, by a public sector seed company (SONACOS). Its output
1/ 80% of total storage capacity is located at points upstream of the
provincial headquarters.



- 28 -
meets only about half of the effective demand, particularly for hard wheat and
barley. SONACOS contracts for multiplication of basic seed produced at the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INRA) (para. 66) with private
farmers and cooperatives, and distributes the certified seed through a network
of 12 regional centers and 300 retail points. SONACOS's inability to meet
full domestic demand is largely due to the shortage of farmers able to meet
the strict regulations-! which govern contractual seed multiplication. In
addition, given the budgetary contraints, the present subsidy policy (under
which seed producer prices are fixed 25% above official cereal prices, and the
price at the seed user level is subsidized on average by about 17%), does not
permit an expansion of seed production. The rigid administration of the
subsidy policy also leads to situations in many years, when seed is priced
lower than grain so that certified seed gets consumed as grain.
79.      The objective of the adjustment program is to focus the research
effort towards the selection for introduction in Morocco of improved seed
varieties developed elaewhere for similar conditions, to increase the vclume
of cereal seed marketed to meet demand and to encourage the marketing of seed
jointly with other inputs. Actions have already been taken to transfer
multiplication of foundation seed from INRA to other agencies (para. 70) and
to reduce the subsidies to cereal seed users for 1984/85 by about 20%; the
latter is a part of a program to gradually phase out the remaining subsidies,
by holding the budget allocations in current terms at the levels of 1984,
except for some specific varieties adapted to high risk regions. The
adjustment program also envisages a more flexible management of the remaining
subsidies according to conditions in the grain market, and actions to
facilitate an increased volume of contractual seed multiplication. The
Government also intends to encourage greater retail level marketing of seeds
with other production inputs using the private sector as appropriate.
80.      Cereals marketing.  The cereals marketing system is characterized by
a heavy Government intervention for cereals subsidized at the consumer level:
the public sector handles 36% of the total availability of cereals. Imports
play an important part, accounting for 30% of the total availability. A
public enterprise (ONICL) has the monopoly of organizing imports through 12
licensed traders. To protect domestic producers from the effects of depressed
market prices due to subsidized consumer prices, the Government operates a
system for domestic price support, also through ONICL which on average buys
about 350,000 tons of cereals (about 10% of the crop) from the domestic
markets at fixed prices. The proportion of the domestic production purchased
by ONICL has increased from 5% in 1976/77 to about 14% in 1982/83. Most
operations are concentrated on soft wheat of which ONICL buys on average 37%
of the domestic production, while only 5% of other cereals are purchased.
Purchases are made through 100 buying points handled by largely Government-run
cooperatives (SCAM-CMAs) and through about 60 licensed private traders. Soft
wheat is milled on Government account by private millers, who sell the flour
at a fixed retail price, involving a consumer subsidy of about US$130 M ox 52%
of cost (para. 56). For other cereals, imports are undertaken for livestock
feed, but are often sold to users and few mills at prices which heve in the
recent past been below domestic market prices (para. 58).
1/ Farmers must be land owners or hold longterm leases, must grow cereals on
at least 20 ha in rainfed areas and 10 ha in irrigated schemes and have
equipment for initial seed treatment.



- 29 -
81.      Although the level of floor prices set by Government for producers
has generally been satisfactory (para. 54), the present marketing system does
not assure the availability to producers of established floor prices,
particularly during good production years. In 1982, which was a normal crop
year, in three regions of the country out of four, the prices of soft wheat on
the rural markets were known to have been consistently 30 to 401 below the
official floor prices for up to nine months of the year. For barley ln 1983,
when production was 351 below the 10 year average, the nationwide year-around
average price at the local market was 12.5% below official prices and for
maize it was 151 below. In regions with the best potential for growth,
average year-round producer prices were below established floor prices. A'
Major reasons for this are:
(a) the effect of the subsidized food distribution program on the free
market priccs for cereals (this aspect is discussed fully in
para. 56);
(b) a lack of coherence between the price support objective and the
actual programming of imported and domestic procurement, given the
overriding priority for maintaining urban supplies of flour. Import
programming has become quasi-automatic because of constraints in pcrt
storage capacity and increasing dependence on concessional imports
over the scheduling of which the Government has little control.
Given limited storage capacity (651 of average annual handling of
grain), domestic procurement is treated as a residual. In addition,
since ONICL is allocated a limited budget to carry out the
Government's subsidized food policy, this bias against domestic
procurement has long been reinforced by currency over-valuation and
access to cheap imports (para. 56).
(c) administrative rigidities in the domestic trade regulations which
prevent millers' from buying soft wheat directly from farmers and
traders as well as the system of fixed margins for the domestic price
support purchasing and processing services. These margins have not
been revised since 1980 and are now 151-50% below cost for different
cereals while handling margins cover only half of estimated costs.
As a result, less private traders are willing to participate in
ONICL's program, the domestic collection network has contracted, and
their share of soft wheat domestic procurement has decreased from 501
to 33% between 1975 and 1983. In addition, more than two-thirds of
the private storage capacity has been gradually transferred for
handling imports in the urban coastal corridor. Even for the
Governmenit operated SCAM-CMAs, the proportion of purchases they make
at the local markets has declined to 10% in 1983, thus limiting the
impact of the program to large farmers who can bring their produce to
the main collection center to benefit from the official floor price;
1/ In 1982, nine zones out of 11 reported average year-round prices 10-30%
below in case of soft wheat and barley. Since peak market arrivals are in
3-4 months, the price available to medium and small farmers immediately
after harvest in the producing regions would be even less attractive.



- 30 -
(d)  for other cereals, which do not involve large imports for urban
consumers, too small a proportion of the crop is purchased by ONICL
to affect market prices, and there is a critical absence of a system
of coordinated management of imports, national buffer stocks, and
incentives for on-farm storage to reduce peak season arrivals.
82.      Under its adjustment program, the Government intends to develop
before June 1986 an operational plan to improve the effectiveness of the price
support program for all cereals. Analysis of the impact an the budget of a
more active domestic procurement program (Table 6) has demonstrated that the
budgetary impact is quite minimal. Increasing the proportion of domestically
purchased soft wheat to 20% of the target availability of 2 M/ton, in a year
good harvest from 5% in a year of bad harvest would increase the cost to the
Treasury about DH 160 M. This level of additic'.dl expenditure wculd be
comparable to the likely savings expected from the reduction in fertilizer
subsidies (para. 61). The operational plan is expected to have the following
features:
(a)  establishing a system for fixing producer support prices which takes
into account not only production costs, but also cost of imports and
overall price movements (para. 62);
(b)  introducing an integrated system of food planning under which import,
domestic procurement and storage operations are treated as essential
components of a food production system; improved monitoring of
production and stock trends, and regional and seasonal producer
prices would be needed; and imports would be l ..ked Lo domestic
production and procurement, not only in the overall programming but
also by developing a system of import entitlements for millers linked
to domestic purchase;
(c)  reducing the administrative restrictions which reduce the
participation of private traders in the domestic buying program
(specifically giving mills the freedom to buy soft wheat from any
intermediary thereby eliminating the need to establish margins and
reducing licencing requirements to expand participation);
(d)  encouraging actions and policies which would permit farmers to hold
grain off the market during the period of peak arrivals immediately
after the harvest (these would include extending medium-term credit
for storage, permitting longer roll-over period for short-term farm
credit, expanding the financing of stocks and introducing seasonal
price differentials in official prices);
(e)  examining the feasibility of exporting or establishing buffer stocks
for cereals like barley and maize in good harvests; for these
cereals, it would also be necessary to ensure that imports are not
sold at below the official floor prices, adjusted for marketing and
storage costs;
(f)  bringing the procurement system closer to the farm by encouraging the
formation of farmer cooperatives to operate collection, storage and
milling facilities to help farmers take advantage of the floor price
support program. To this end a reorganization of SCAM/CMAs would be
needed, including the transferring of their secondary centers to
local cooperatives.



- 31 -
83.      Technical assistance needed for the development of this operational
plan and for stret.gthening the planning, programning and market monitoring
capacity of ONICL is being organized (details of actions are in para. 119).
In the short-term, the Government aim is to avoid further deterioration of the
present system by restoring the viability of the domestic price support
purchasing activities of existing private sector traders and cooperatives.
84.      Milk Marketing.  After a period of sustained growth in the production
and consumption of milk in the country, the dairy sector is now confronted
with major adjustment problems. This is a result of the elimination in
1981/82 of consumer subsidies when prices were increased by 60%, of improved
producer prices, and of an expanding network of cooperative milk collection
centers. The industry now processes a record 402 of total domestic production
and with the supply in the peak season being almost double that during the
lean season, an estimated 20,000 tons of milk (or 8% of total milk processed)
were refused for processing during 1983/84. However, structural problems led
to imports by the industry that year of 500,000 tone equivalent of fresh milk
despite reduced per capita consumption of 53 liters iL; 1083 compared to 71 in
1979-''
85.      Government controls over the dairy sector take the form of fixing
producer prices, specifying milk products which can be marketed, fixing tariff
levels against imports and licensing processing capacity. Government's past
policy, given large consumer subsidies, had been to encourage imports of cheap
milk powder and butter by the industry to make milk products to complement
inadequate domestic supplies. Therefore, besides producing pasteurized fresh
milk for immediate consumption, the industry specialized in making profitable
milk derivatives, while sale of reconstituted milk was banned.  The domestic
processing industry is thus unbalanced, with a capacity to make long duration
products from the seasonal excess of the winter limited to 15% of its total
capacity compared to an international norm of 65X. The present tariff
structures cannot assure the financial viability of domestic production of
long conservation commodities by the small-scale plants which exist now, given
the prevaiiing and often subsidized import prices. With structural surpluses
building up during the peak season, the Government's Sector adjustment program
envisages measures to encourage a better inter-seasonal distribution of
production, to minimize the need to produce long conservation commodities, nnd
to achieve the minimum necessary balancing in the most efficient manner.
86.      As a first step, the Government has increased in January 1985 the
seasonal producer price differential from 10 to 177 and a further increase to
25% would be implemented depending on the effect of the increase on the
inter-seasonal supply patterns. Other measures to help reduce seasonal supply
variations are the gradual elimination of price controls on high value animal
feed (para. 58) and extension programs for forage production (para. 65). In
addition, restrictions on making low fat milk are to be eliminated to improve
domestic butter supplies. The Government also plans to ensure that the
remaining structural excesses can be absorbed by the industry to reduce
imports and processed into derivatives, at the lowest possible economic cost.
1/  Per capita consumption is 26X below the average for North African
countries.



- 32 -
This would include the setting up of units of the appropriate size to benefit
from the significant economies of scale which 'icist in the industry and the
use of technological alternatives to powder making such as UHT milk. In the
near term, revenues available from the sale of milk powder donated by the
World Food Program would continue to be used to encourage cooperatives to
operate their existing small-scale balancing capacity and accept aLl of
farmers' milk. Close monitoring of the export policies of major dairy surplus
countries would be undertaken, since increases in international prices of
butter or milk powder would, in the medium term, make domestic balancing more
profitable without the use of the existing anti-dumping legislation in Morocco.
87.      Marketing of Agricultural Exports.  Until recently, public sector
involvement in marketing of agricultural exports through the State Marketing
Board (OCE) has been significant, with private firms allowed to initiate
market surveys and contacts with buyers, but contract negotiation and
implementation including transport, marketing and quality control were carried
out by OCE. In addition to currency overvaluation, non-price factors such as
trade controls, have been in the past major disincentives to agricultural and
food exports. As part of the industrial and trade policy adjustment program
developed with the assistance of the Bank, the Government has abolished in
1984 the export monopoly of OCE for processed food exports, with OCE remaining
responsible for quality control. Export licensing has been abolished for most
agricultural products (except subsidized commodities) and a study of the
future marketing arrangements for exports of fresh vegetables and fruit is
scheduled for completion in 1985.
88.      Institutional Credit.  Greater reliance on private investment through
institutional credit as opposed to direct public sector investments, continues
to be a key element in the Government strategy. Private investment now
accounts for about 40% of the total investment in agriculture, 50% of which is
associated with lending by CNCA, the national agricultural credit bank, which
now handles more than 60% of the total agricultural lending. With direct
public investment concentrated in the irrigated perimeters (para. 44), the
development of rainfed areas has relied heavily on institutional credit and
roughly 65% of CNCA lending is targetted in these zones.
89.      The Government's medium term strategy, developed jointly with the
Bank in the context of ongoing project activities, particularly the Vth
Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 2367-MOR), aims to assure that CNCA lending
continues to encourage greater private sector participation in agricultural
development, specific attention being directed at five areas. First, wherever
feasible, investments presently financed by the Government budget are to be
progressively shifted, through use of institutional credit, to private
ownership. Prime candidates would be investments in on-farm and market level
storage, commercially viable agricultural support services, farm
mechanization, investments in field irrigation facilities and agro-industry.
Key instruments to achieve this shift would be the termination of public
investment programs in these areas, extension of CNCA credit program to
replace them and restructuring of the current system of managing investment
incentives.t- Secondly, a review of the present system of establishing
1/ A study to revise the Agricultural Investment Code is set for completion
in December '85.



- 33 -
farmer credit ceiling is underway to ensure that loans are made on the basis
of the production potential and viability of the investments rather than be
decided based on low and unreliable declared fiscal incomes. Under the
present system, average lending per borrower in 1983 was 2,500 DH,
representing an investment of only DH 400/ha. Thirdly, access to
institutional credit in rainfed areas is to be improved: presently it is
limited to about 280,000 borrowers, roughly 25Z of potential borrowers,
compared to nearly 60% of potential borrowers who are reached in irrigated
areas. To correct the imbalance, emphasis is to limit the expansion of CNCA's
physical network to the rainfed or newly irrigated areas and to open temporary
seasonal credit outlets, sixty of which operated in 1983/84. Access to credit
is also constrained by a lack of documented title to land. fragmentation of
holdings and insecurity of tenure, initial action on which is included in the
sector adjustment program (para. 97). Fourthly, action is to be taken to
reduce CNCA's dependence on Government resources. In 1983/84, only 17% of its
resources were raised through its deposits even though they have increased by
22% each year during the last decade. Specific actions contemplated involve
autonomy to CNCA to plough back its profits, greater diversity in financial
services offered to clients, motivating staff for more intensive deposit
mobilization activities and raising interest rates on deposits.-I Finally,
the objective is to increase the diversification in CNCA lending to fill the
gap in financing of labor intensive, low cost rural industry which is not
presently catered to by existing institutions under the Ministry of Industry.
Action has started to strengthen CNCA's capability to undertake assessments of
rural industry potential, particularly in the productive Meknes area. In
addition, there are plans to assist potential enterpreneurs in linking up with
potential markets with prime attention to storage and marketing
infrastructure, small scale flour milling, decentralized sugar production,
slaughterhouses, oil extraction, and food processing for exports. Technical
assistance for this effort is being organized (para. 120).
90.      irrigation Management.  The nine existing ORMVAs have played a key
role in promoting the development of irrigation. They provide a wide range of
services: supervision of land consolidation, design and construction,
operation & maintenance, applied research, extension, input distribution,
credit supervision, production planning & marketing. As their coverage and
operations have expanded, internal management deficiencies have begun to
show. In addition, the increasing supervision and control exercised by the
Government as their dependence on the Government budget has increased, has
adversely affected their ability and operational flexibility to provide
efficiently these wide range of services. The total financial support
provided to the ORMVAs by the Government has increased steadily from DH140M in
1977 to DH250M in 1983 (a 45Z increase in real terms), and on the basis of
area irrigated, it is now 875DH/ha compared to 420DH/ha in 1977 (a 20%
increase in real terms).
91.      With recent increases, the level of water charges is now adequate to
recover 1007 of O&M costs in gravity systems and about 65% of O&M costs in
sprinkler systems, the latter covers 20% of the irrigated area. Land
betterment levies now cover 307 of the investment costs in newly developed
1/ Recently increased by 2% in April 1985; overall interest rates for lending
are positive.



- 34 -
systems. However, recovery of water charges due for collection has fallen
behind to only 43% of total amounts due in 1984, though in some perimeters it
is close to 100Z. The actual collections represent only a third of the ORMVA
recurrent budget increasing the need for financial support from the
Government. Given budget constraints, virtually 85S of the available budget
is now accounted for by staff salaries, leaving little to purchase spare parts
and undertake maintenance. In recent years, operation and maintenance
expenditures have been only 652 of those estimated as needed for adequate
operation and maintenance of the network. Lack of spending authority at the
field level to undertake urgent maintenance work is also a constraint.
Overall water use is about 80% of potential but in some perimeters it is as
low as 40X. Cropping intensity has steadily increased to 982, but remains
below the average potential of 130%. Crop yields have increased steadily,
particularly in the older perimeters, but they are still 70-100% below levels
achieved in the best perimeters (pg 13, footnote 2).
92.      The Government's sector adjustment program aims to improve the
operation ai.d management of large irrigation and involves adjustments
regarding the role of the ORMVAs, the system of supervision by the Government
over them, and actions to improve their financial viability and autonomy
(details of key actions are in para. 110). These adjustments would be
implemented for all ORMVAs at a pace appropriate for each; an action program
for each ORMVA to implement these adjustments is being developed. The main
actions would be as follows:
(a) reduction in the administrative and financial control of the
Government over the ORMVAs to expedite contracting by revising
upwards the limits for review of contracts at Rabat; regularizing the
flow of financial resources, establish revolving funds to undertake
urgently needed maintenance to introduce a system of contractual
maintenance;
(b) establishment of a system of medium-term 'contracts' with the
ORMVAs', under which overall objectives, resources available and
performance indicators would be fixed. This system would permit
greater autonomy for effective execution and maintenance. The system
would be introduced in the first ORMVA by June 1986 for further
expansion if justified after an evalution in 1989; and
(c) actions to improve the financial autonomy of the ORMVAs, involving
the introduction of user charges to gradually recover the full cost
of those commercial services provided by them, while transferring to
others those for which private sector or cooperatives are ready; and
(d) action over 5-years with the objective of improvement in overall
recovery levels to 902 by 1989 (Table 4); the Government's objective
is by 1990 to reduce to half the total budgetary support to the
ORMVAs (to about DH125 M in constant prices), and to assure that by
then at least 3 ORMVAs are financially self-managing for their
activities in the irrigated areas.
E. Building Institutional Capacity aDd Resolving Structural Problems
93.      Management of the adjustment process over the next five years would
not only affect the role of the state enterprises and the departments of MARA,
but also would necessitate a review of the structure itself. Major weakness



- 35 -
that have emerged during recently completed assessments, relate to policy
planning and analysis capacity, extension organization and field
implementation in rainfed areas. In addition, a start would need to be made
to deal with structural problems relating to increased land productivity and
protection of the natural resource base.
94.      Policy Planning and Analysis Capability.  A primary reason for the
stagnation of the seventies and early eighties - in addition to the effect of
droughts - has been the inadequate adjustment of policy instruments and
expenditure decisions in response to changing economic environments. In
recognition of this weakness, the Government created in 1981 within MARA a
separate Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE). To meet the
challenge of the adjustment process, DPAE needs to be strengthened in areas of
policy analysis, investment analysis and project monitoring and evaluation -
all three of which fall under its ;arisdiction. In addition, the various
technical Directorates of MARA are all also in need of improvements in this
area.
95.      So far, Government has used a task force approach, with a major
involvement of the Bank, to design the medium term adjustment program in
agriculture. To maintain the momentum of the adjustments, increased capacity
of MARA is needed to monitor, analyse and make effective interventions to
ensure that there is greater policy consistency of MARA decisions regarding
investment priorities and incentives. The Government strategy in this regard
consists of four components. First, is to build up the capacity of DPAE, by
making use of available technical assistance from USAID, focussing this effort
on improving the statistical data base; secondly, to use the new FADES/FAO
assistance to selectively strengthen DPAE's own role in investment
programing, expenditures monitoring and project evaluation; thirdly, to
appoint economists in key Directorates, by reclassification of existing
technical positions, and start suitable training programs for existing staff;
finally, to create a team of qualified staff for major policy work starting
with the policy analysis emerging from the prices and incentives study, (para.
52). For the last, Government has decided to establish a new company owned by
the various para-statals associated with MARA, to work under contract for
special studies and assignments. Some of the key policy analysis it is
expected to focus on would be:
(a) Evolution of input-output price ratios for the major commodities and
production systems and setting up of a computerized monitoring system
in the Ministry;
(b) Evolution of relative prices for cereals/livestock products;
(c) Comparative financial and economic viability of irrigated productions;
(d) Development of national accounts ..or agriculture; -
(e) Measures of supply elasticity for the principal commodities produced;
(f) Comparative viability of the investments in irrigation (large scale,
modern and traditional small and medium scale); and
(g)  Cost benefit analysis of the provision of principal services by MARA
(animal health, genetic improvement, mechanization, etc.).



- 36 -
96.      Field Organization of MARA.  The recognition of the need to review
the overall structure of MARA in the field is not recent. Important changes
are needed to improve the field implementation capacity in rainfed areas
because, despite the declared priority for these areas and initial allocation
of funds reflecting those priorities, actual performance of the DPAs in
executing the allocated tasks has been poor, in particular for agricultural
extension and small and medium scale irrigation. Difficulties relate to the
vast number of DPA's, their internal organization structures which are
amorphous, parts of which are controlled by different directors at Rabat, and
which have little financial and operational autonomy. The Government's medium
term adjustment program aims to build around the ORMVAs to augment the overall
field implementation capacity. The Government has decided to expand the
ORMVA's formal developmental responsibility to the surrounding rainfed areas,
thus benefitting from their better operational flexibility, improved staff
capability and better staff motivation. Virtually 80% of Morocco would be
covered this way and for the remaining areas, the Government plans to
establish three new Offices in 1988, once the expansion of the area of
operation of the existing 9 ORMVAs is fully implemented. With these changes,
DPAs would be linked to the ORMVAs as field offices and the CTs would take on
a role comparable to the CMVs. Funding of the development activities in
rainfed areas through these ORMVAs, integration of DPA staff and establishment
of medium term development programs for the newly associated areas remain the
major tasks to be accomplished in the medium term. The enabling legal
framweork has been established by a Decree issued in March 1985 and a MARA
task force, headed by the Secretary-General, is now monitoring the
implementation, during 1985, of this major reform of field crg.rnization.
Structural Constraints
97.      Agrarian Structures.  The land tenure situation in Morocco represents
a structural constraint to agricultural growth. This resullts from (a) skewed
land distribution patterns with 802 of the farms having 5 da or less and 12
more than 50 ha, representing 25% and 20% of the cultivable land respectively;
(b) an extreme fragmentation of the holdings which affects their viability
(average plot size is 0.6 ha); (c) a lack of documented land titles with
adverse consequences for access to credit and incentives tr invest on the
farm; (d) a lack of security of tenure for tenant farmers; (e) a high
incidence of absentee land ownership and a consequent unde--use of resources,
and (f) poor management and over-exploitation of collectivity owned lands.
These problems are most acutely felt in the rainfed sector, where little
effort has been made except as part of a national cadaster program.
Government's efforts have so far been concentrated on the redistribution of
land regained from foreign settlers and the development of a legal framework
for land transfers for the irrigation schemes. In the latter, extensive land
consolidation and titling programs have been completed (about 460,000 ha) or
underway (275,000 ha). While a regulation of land leases and a more
comprehensive legal framework for land transfers would benefit the entire
rainfed sector, it is estimated that economically justified consolidation
programs could be envisaged on up to 0.5 million ha in the high rainfall areas.
98.      The Government's medium term adjustment program recognizes that the
potential for improvement of land structures and more rational land use in
rainfed agriculture is substantial. As a result, extension of the
comprehensive land policy alresdy developed for irrigated areas into the
rainfed sector at a pace consistent with the social realities of the rural
areas has become a priority for the agricultural sector.



- 37 -
99.      The first element of the Government strategy is to continue the
national cadastre, linking its activities more closely to the future land
consolidation operations, to prepare a complete statistical data base on farm
fragmentation, parcelling, distribution of ownership, and land tenure status
including the collective lands, and start work on value mapping based on the
potential of the land. Actions are already underway regarding the national
cadastre and on the establishing the statistical data base, funded partly
through ongoing Bank-financed projects. The second element is the
constitution of economically viable production units through land
consolidation schemes and establishing guidelines for farm restructuring and
transfers based on viability thresholds. The third element concerns improved
security of tenure for which legislation which would codify the relationsnips
between lessors and lessees in agriculture, has been developed for review and
finalization before 1986. The Goverment has prepared draft legislation based
on the experience gained in the irrigated areas specifically related to these
broad objective and aims to complete its review and finalization before 1986.
These new policy instruments would lead to the setting up of a land agency, a
general zoning of agricultural land and execution of land consolidation
programs in promising rainfed areas.
100.     Conservatiun and Renewal of Natural Resources.  Morocco is confronted
with a situation of rapid deforestation, decreasing productivity of forest
rangeland and growing erosion damages. The country's forest resources of
8.6 M ha are declining at a rate of about 20,000 ha per year, while erosion
damages result in the permanent loss of arable land and dam siltation, the
latter through loss of storage capacity is estimated to cost the equivalent of
the production of about 6,000 ha of irrigated land per year ($7M). The net
wood trade balance deficit has reached significant levels (about $50 million
p.a. or 10% of agricultural imports) with domestic production only providing
30% of demand. A rational management of forest resources is constrained by a
number of factors. First is a lack of planning for forest resources leading
to sub-optimal use of existing resources. As of 1984, only about 25% of the
forest areas had been subjected to detailed inventory and mapping and only
about 15% of Morocco's forests currently have a management plan. Second is a
general over-exploitation and over-grazing resulting from increasing pressure
of rural population and cattle on forest areas for fuel wood and fodder.
Third, is a poorly funded reforestation program partly resulting from
inappropriate financing mechanisms. Although the National Reforestation Plan
of 1979 concluded that a program of 40,000 bs/yr was technically and
economically feasible, due to budgetary constraints, the annual reforestation
has been about 15,000 ha for the 1980-83 period. As part of its medium term
adjustment program, the Government is taking several actions to address these
major constraints.
101.     A Landsat-based inventory is scheduled for completion by 1985 and
will complement ongoing studies of resource management. Under ongoing
projects, special pilot projects are being developed to improve management of
rangeland. This is based on the recognition that problems of over-
exploitation can only be solved gradually through a community-based approach,
using pilot approaches to integrate operation of different Government
agencies. Finally, the financing mechanisms for reforestation are being
reviewed for their adequacy, as well as for the timeliness of the availability
of fund to match the seasonality of reforestation activities. To raise
additional resources, the Government is considering to bring about a parity
between the local wood and imports by placing a parallel 5S tax on the



- 38 -
imports; this would comipare with a present tax of 10% on local wood auctions.
Combined with closer monitoring of the use of reforestation by the communes of
the 20X of their forest revenues they are obliged to do, the Government aims
to assure adequate funding and management, within the overall sector
investment priorities, of a reforestation program of about 30,000 ha/yr. The
improved timeliness of Government funding would be achieved through greater
use of the National Forestry Fund, which is replenished by the local tax
revenues.
V. THE LOAN
A. Origin and Objectives
102.     The purpose of this Loan is to provide the financial and technical
support to the Government's sector adjustment program described in Part IV.
In late 1983, the Ministry of Agriculture (MARA) in a letter to the Bank,
spelt out the outlines of a program for policy reassessments and development
of adjustment measures to overcome the stagnation in the agricultural sector.
A request was also made for consideration of an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan. In March 1984, MARA completed a review of the implementation status of
its action program which demonstrated its commitment to design and implement a
meaningful program of sector adjustments. Three Bank missions visited Morocco
during the period July 1984 to January 1985, and assisted in the preparation
of, and finally appraised, the adjustment program. Negotiations took place in
Washington between April 29 and May 10, 1985; the Moroccan delegation was led
by Mr. M. Sahel, Head of the Investment Budget Division of the Ministry of
Finance. A delegation of the African Development Bank attended the
negotiations as observers.
103.     The agricultural adjustment program of Morocco, in the Letter of
Sector Development Policy (Annex IV), covers a period of five years of which
the proposed Loan covers actions to be taken during an initial 18 month
period. The proposed adjustments cover the entire range of agricultural
activities, but, given the need for further analysis to develop the specific
adjustment measures in certain areas, the pace of progress in all sub-sectors
is not uniform. It is the intention of Government to give priority to
complete the necessary studies and analysis to accelerate the progress in
those areas where further actions are needed to complete the adjustment
program.
B. The Action Program under the Loan
104.     The agricultural sector adjustment program involves a series of
actions over the next five years which are summarized in Annex V, and are
based on detailed action plans in each major area/sub-sector (see the
Technical Support Volume). The detailed action plans will form the basis for
monitoring the implementation of the overall program as well as of the
specific measures to be taken in the context of the Loan itself. A review of
the implementation of the entire adjustment program would be undertaken at the
time of release of the second tranche of the Loan. Under the Loan, selected
measures which would be crucial to the overall process of adjustment would be
closely monitored, being linked to the release of two tranches of the Loan.



- 39 -
These specific adjustments are discussed below and include actions on review
of public expenditures, initial adjustment in the prices and incentives
framework, improvements in agricultural support services and marketing and
improved operation of the floor price support program.
105.     Restructuring of Public Expenditures.  The emphasis would be on the
monitoring of the overall sector and subsector allocations as well as of
budgetary appropriation and expenditures for key priority projects and
activities within the major subsectors (Table 5). DPAE would play a crucial
role in this monitoring, using the new computer based system linking the data
base of MARA with that of Ministry of Finance. In order to maintain and
deepen the ongoing dialogue, it is Government's intention, confirmed in the
Letter of Sector Development Policy to undertake joint reviews of the public
sector investment and expenditure program with the Bank. The next such review
is planned for September 1985.
106.     Prices and Incentives Framework.  Under the Loan, a first set of
adjustments in the pricing and incentives framework to reduce existing
distorsions within the agricultural sector would be implemented. In addition,
the on-going agricultural prices and incentives study (para. 52) would be
completed and submitted to an Interministerial Commission for review of its
major conclusions and policy implications by June 1986. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the final report, with the views of the
inter-ministerial commission, would be provided to the Bank before June 1986
(Part 1, Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement).
107.     Specific actions for adjusting the prices and incentives framework to
be taken within the timeframe of the Loan would serve the purpose of
redressing the imbalanced protection pattern within the sector and would
include fertilizer and livestock feed price increases, adoption of a phased
program for improved collection of water charges, and development of a
methodology for setting and maintaining target producer prices for cereals at
adequate levels. The Government has resolved to eliminate the fertilizer
subsidy by the start of the 1989/90 crop year. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that in order to complete its program to eliminate fertilizer
subsidies by 1989/90, the Government would undertake two fertilizer price
adjustments before June 1986. First, as a condition of Loan effectiveness,
the Government would increase the weighted average fertilizer unit reference
prices by at least 15% according to a methodology agreed with the Bank-'
(Part A.1 of Schedule 5). A second increase of at least 20% would be a
condition for the release of the second tranche (Part B.l of Schedule 5). The
Government would also take further steps to eliminate the adverse effects of
the present controls on the distribution of selected livestock feed
materials. As a condition for the release of the second tranche, the ex-mill
prices charged for the livestock feed materials distributed under Government
1/  The weighted average reference price is determined by weighing the
reference price (established by Government at the level of blenders of
fertilizers) of each one of nine selected fertilizers, by the volume of
its sales in the previous 12 months as a proportion of the total sales of
these nine types of fertilizers. The subsidy is defined as the difference
in the CIF (or ex-factory price in case of locally made products) and the
reference price.



- 40 -
control (sugarbeet pulp and wheat bran) would be raised by at least 15% (Part
B.2 of Schedule 5), in order to maintain those at levels comparable to
alternative feeds, based on nutritive values (para. 58). This would also help
ensure that the private sector concentrate feed industry would have access to
these high value materials, that the use of alternative low value feed
materials would not be discouraged, and that the feed industry would be
encouraged to develop a balanced feed for cattle. Assurances were also
obtained that a study to identify, evaluate and recommend measures required to
liberalize the animal feed prices, would be completed by December 31, 1986
(Para. 5 of Sctadule 4 of Loan Agreement).
108.     With respect to irrigation water charges, the Government bas
developed a 5-year program for improving the overall recovery of water charges
to reach 90% of amounts due and payable by 1989 (Table 4). Specific actions
for each ORMVA to achieve the required increments have been developed and
involve the establishment of separate water charge collection units, and
developing appropriate measures, such as, cutting off water to delinquent
users or even collecting charges in advance, to be applied in the event of
non-payment. Assurances were obtained at negotiations (Section 3.02 of Loan
Agreement) that the Government would carry out a program of actions,
acceptable to the Bank, to help achieve this objective. The Government is now
implementing these specific changes; it is expected that by June 1986 the
overall recovery levels for the 1984/85 irrigation season would have improved
to 57% in line with the five-year program. Achievement of this would be
reflected in a statement of recovery and arrears situation for each ORMVA in
1985, to be made available to the Bank before June 1986. As regards cereals
producer prices, assurances were obtained (Section 3.03 (c) of Loan Agreement)
that the Government would develop, before June 1986, a methodology, acceptable
to the Bank, for determining the price at which ONICL purchases locally
produced cereals. This methodology would take into account the evolution of
world market prices and exchange rate movements, as well as the evolution of
input-output price ratios at various levels of technology, with the objective
of maintaining target prices above world market equivalents by at least the
average protection rate in the economy and providing adequate financial
returns to producers. The objective would be met initially by making
effectively available to producers at least the world price, and to steadily
move towards providing the cereal producers the same level of protection as
available to the rest of the economy.
109.     Irrigation Management:  Under the Loan, the primary focus would be on
improvements in the management, automony and financial viability of the
ORMVAs. Specific measures would be to improve the system of financial and
administrative control exercised over ORMVAs; to introduce a new contractual
approach to their supervision by the Government; to improve their collection
of water charges (the last action is discussed in para. 108).
110.     Four specific actions are envisaged regarding the increased
operational flexibility of the ORMVAs. First, to expedite implementation the
review of contracts at Rabat would be reduced by raising the minimum level for
such review from the current level of DH 200,000 to about DH 1-1.5M for civil
works and DH 300,000 for others. These limits have not been revised since
1972, and have resulted in 80X of the number of contracts representing 95Z of
the total value, being sent to Rabat. Secondly, the budgetary support from
the Government would be provided in four quarterly releases, rather than in
unprogrammed and ad hoc tranches of the past.  Thirdly, the ORMVAs would be



- 41 -
granted the option to obtain timely audits by private auditors to improve
internal management; and finally, ORMVAs would be granted an imprest account
to permit rapid execution of urgent maintenance works without awaiting prior
approvals. These four actions have been implemented in April 1985 prior to
negotiations, in the form of inter-ministerial approval of the necessary
circulars/orders.  Under the Loan, the Government vould also introduce, on a
pilot basis, a system of program contracts (CP) between the Government and
each ORMVA (para. 92b).  For its success, the CP system would need to be
supported by a good management information system, cost accounting and a
performance audit system   The first CP would be finalized for at least one
ORMVA, expected to be Doukkala, one of the oldest, before June 30, 1986 (Para.
2 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement).
111.     Livestock Services.  Under the Loan, specific actions to be
implemented in the livestock sub-sector would relate to the launching of new
approaches to provision of animal health and breeding services to improve
their effectiveness and to reduce the financial burden on the Government.
112.     Following the approval of a law permitting the establishment of
private veterinary service (para. 72), which could also enter into specified
health control contracts with the Government, the Government, prior to
negotiations, has delimitated 20 viable zones for the introduction of such a
system, each zone covering about 2,000 cattle and 30,000 sheep. Based on the
initial good response to the first announcement of the proposed contractual
conditions, it is expected that by June 1986 contracts with private
veterinarians would have been signed with the state for compulsory health care
in these zones. Regarding provision of breeding services (para. 73), specific
steps under the Loan would be to complete the finalization of the terms and
conditions under which the restructured breeding services would be operated by
cooperatives or livestock groups. The new breeding services would start from
irrigated areas where the density of coverage is high and where there is no
longer a need to promote artificial insemination. Under the new system, the
Government would continue to operate the 2 main centers and the 24 sub-centers
to supply the private inseminators with essential supplies, at full cost.
Users would start paying a fee for Al services, which would initially
represent the cost of the supplies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that by December 31, 1985, the Government would identify at least 20
co-operatives/zones where the new breeding services program would be developed
(Para. 4 of Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement). It is expected that by June
1986 the Government would have trained about 20 cooperatives/groups ready for
taking over the management of the breeding services and appropriate contracts
between these cooperatives and private inseminators would have been executed.
113.     Agricultural Extension.  Under the Loan, the first phase of reforms
in agricultural extension (para. 65) would start affecting both rainfed and
irrigated areas. The first phase would focus on low cost improvements in
field organization structures, work programs, training, and increased mobility
within existing total staff resources.
114.     All major principles for organization and structure of a T&V based
field extension system would be applied first to 28 selected zones, one in
each DPA. The number of extension agents in these zones would be increased by
transfer to reach a farmer to extension agent ratio of 1:320. To ensure that
the extension staff effectiveness is not hampered by a lack of mobility,



- 42 -
travel allowances and necessary extension materials, the Government has, prior
to negotiations, ensured that adequate funding (about $20,000 per zone for
investments and $7000 per year for operating costs) has been made available.
This has been confirmed through the Ministry of Finance approval of
appropriate budget documents. Technical assistance would be obtained
(para. 119) to assist in the establishment of in-service training and
preparation of technical messages, based on agro-economic surveys already
completed. In parallel, similar changes would also be introduced in the
irrigated areas. In addition, suitable circulars have been issued by MARA to
introduce a final year of practical cxtension training in the curriculum of
the agricultural schools from where extension workers are recruited.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that an interim progress report on
the performance and experience of this pilot extension system would be made
available to the Bank in June 1986 and a final evaluation report by December
1987 to facilitate the expansion into other areas (Para. 3 of Schedule 4 of
Loan Agreement).
115.     Agricultural Research.  With the recent completion of an expert team
review of the role, organization and structure of INRA, the stage is set for
to start under the Loan the establishment of a sound national research system
in Morocco (para. 66). Such a system would be centered around a restructured
INRA capable of fulfilling its mandate and involve three actions. First as a
follow-up to recent actions to grant INRA financial autonomy and to improve
the salary levels of its scientific staff, INRA would start internal
reorganization, following the recent approval of the Government of its new
organization structure. The new structure aims to establish a system of
decentralized management, combined with a multidisciplinary research team
approach concentrating on specific priority research objectives defined by
program technical committees. Secondly, the selection of INRA field stations
to be transferred or closed--based on their relevance to the future research
program- would be finalized and ratified by the INRA Board. Thirdly, the
INRA would begin to close down its involvement in foundation seed production
activities for G-4 stage of multiplication for cereal crops, and transfer
these to private seed producers, who already produce 40% of the foundation
seed for SONACOS. The formal approval of these proposed actions by INRA's
Board has been completed prior to negotiations. As a condition for the
release of the second tranche, INRA would have completed the definition of a
priority program for agricultural research, including its breakdown by
stations which would remain in INRAs' network, and INRA would have ceased its
research activities on at least 20 of the 44 field stations considered
superfluous (Part B.3 of Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement). It is also expected
that by that time INRA %ould have reduced its G-4 cereal foundation seed
program to only 500 ha, half the level in 1.33/84.
116.     Fertilizer Marketing.  Under the Loan, further steps will be taken to
continue the changes initiated by the Government during the last 12 months,
(para. 76), changes which aim to bring about an improved private sector
participation in the retail distribution in rainfed areas, provide greater
incentives for downstream storage, and ensure improved coordination between
FERTIMA, and private sector blenders and wholesalers. While many FERTIMA
retail points are located in remote and marginal rainfed areas where demand
levels and its wide variability do not attract private retailers, it is
estimated there are about 70-90 others where sales have declined significantly
as the private network has expanded. To encourage further enlargement of the
private retail network, the Government has developed criteria to continually



- 43 -
review the need to operate FERTIMA outlets (para.77). Prior to negotiations,
the Government has completed an analysis of the 1984/85 sales season, to
identify the various points which meet the criteria and as a condition for the
release of the second tranche, at least 80% of the outlets which meet these
criteria would have been closed down (Part B.4 of Schedule 5 of Loan
Agreement). The staff at these outlets who are seconded from MARA, would
revert to MARA, to be retrained and absorbed, as suitable, into the
reorganized extension services (para. 65).
117.     Cereal MarketinR.  Following an analysis which shows that the
potential impact on the budget of a more active floor price support program in
good crop years, would be minimal (Table 6), the Government has decided to
accelerate actions in this area as part of the sector adjustment program. For
this purpose, the Government proposes to use savings from the reduction in
fertilizer subsidies to operate a larger program of domestic cereal
procurement particularly in years of good harvests. The primary objective
would be to define an operational plan to strengthen the price support program
by actions in line with Government strategy (para. 82). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations (Section 3.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement) that an
inter-agency task-force would be set up before September 1985 with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to dcvelop such a plan with a timetable for
the specific actions needed to implement the policy, and that this plan would
be 'urnished to the Bank before June 30, 1986. Technical assistance would be
provided to both ONICL and DPAE (para. 120).
118.     In the meanwhile, the Government would take action to prevent further
deterioration in the existing system of price support for key cereals,
particularly in view of the crop forecasts for a good harvest in 1985. As a
condition for Loan effectiveness (Section 3.02 (a) and Part A.2 of Schedule 5
of Loan Agreement), the storage margins allowed the SCAMs or private traders
to purchase domestic cereals in the local market on account of ONICL, would be
revised upwards to reach at least DH 26/ton/month for wheat and barley so as
to fully compensate for the cost of domestic purchases in the souks. This
would represent an average increase of about 30%.
Technical Assistance
119.     MARA would need technical assistance (TA) in order to manage the
sector adjustment program, complete the remaining analysis. define follow-up
measures, and to monitor the implementation and the i,mpact of the specific
adjustment measures to make corrections as needed. To this end, assurances
were obtained (Section 3.04 b of the Loan Agreement) that the Borrower would
employ consultants whose qualifications and experience and terms of reference
are satisfactory to the Bank for assistance in implementing the adjustment
program, particularly those referred to below in para. 119 (a), 120 (b) and
120 (a). Ongoing technical assistance which has also been reviewed and would,
once reshaped, help in the implementation of the adjustment program, includes:
(a) a proposed grain storage study which would be replaced by a new TA
focusing on the development of an operational plan for the domestic
floor price support program (para. 82). The TA (48 MM) is likely to
be operational by December 1985;



- 44 -
(b)  the extension master plan, for which the focus would be on developing
a feasible implementation and financing plan for Phase It and Phase
III of the adjustment program (para. 65); individual experts are now
being recruited with TORs focussing on specific TA needs such as
extension methodology and communication training; the TA (6mm)
expected to be operational by June 1985;
(c)  study to strengthen INRA, for which TORs I. ive been finalized for
assistance from CIRADV' to implement the new policy adopted by
INRA's Board; this TA (L2nm) is expected to be operational by June
1985 possibly under financing from the French Government;
(d)  the TA (55mm) being provided by FAO (under FADES financing) to
strengthen the DPAE is now begin revised to make the work program
consistent with MT strategy (para. 95).
120.     Additional technical assistance is foreseen in the following areas:
(a)  defining new credit supported agro-industry and storage investments
by CNCA; the technical assistance (24mm) for this is likely to be
financed by USAID using TORs developed with the Bank, managed by CNCA
and is likely to start by Sepcember 1985;
(b)  assistance to implement the first "Contrat de Programme"; the TA
(12mm) would be supervised by Directorate of Rural Investment (DER);
discussions are underway to finalize this and it is likely to be
operational by December 1986;
(c)  the ongoing Prices and Incentives study (para.52) upon completion
would be followed by an analysis of specific policy options and
setting of analytical tools in the Ministry: this TA could be
implemented through the new policy analysis agency (para. 96) and
discussions are underway to finalize this; and
(d)  a study to identify, evaluate and recommend the measures required to
liberalize the animal feed prices; the TA (6 mm) is likely to be
finalized by June 1986 (para. 107).
121.     As part of its responsibility to monitor the implementation of the
Sector adjustment process, DPAE would be responsible for the monitoring of
these TA components. Draft TORs for all these TA components, either revisions
or new, were made available to the Borrower and discussed at negotiations.
Training
122.     While technical assistance would aim to provide immediately needed
expert analytical support, training needs of Moroccan staff for the sucessful
implementation of the adjustment program would also be significant.
Government's approach is to start staff training programs in areas where needs
1/ CIRAD: Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour
le D'eveloppement (France).



- 45 -
have already been assessed and to undertake an assessment of the trainingneeds
in MARA and in each sub-sector consistent with the overall directions
established in adjustment program.
123.     In the area of policy analysis, the Government has developed an
overseas training program with USAID financing; so far about 15 staff have
received advanced degree training in economics and some of these recently
returned staff are likely to form the nucleus of the new policy analysis
agency (para. 95). A continuation of the overseas training program is now
being discussed, along with a program to start local training for selected
MARA staff in financial and economic analysis. About 8-12 staff per year are
likely to participate in 3-6 month training programs. MARA is also
participating in the Bank (EDI) sponsored training course in planning and
monitoring; about 8 staff from MARA and associated agencies are involved.
Training in monitoring and evaluation will be provided by the CIRAD for the
M&E unit of DPAE and its staff in the field offices. Training would be for 6
months.
C. Ioan Administration
124.     Eligible Goods.  The Loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of
imported fertilizers, seeds, agricultural machinery and spare parts, animal
feed, pesticides and veterinary medicines and fuel (maximum of $25 M).
LIST OF ELIGIBLE IMPORTS
Item                                    Indicative Amounts
(US $ M)
1.   Fertilizer /a                                              4
2.    Agricultural Machinery                                   36
& Spare Parts
3.    Seeds and Animal feed                                     8
4.    Pesticides and veterinary                                27
Medicines
5.    Petroleum Products (maximum)                             25
Total                                                    00
/a  Including raw materials used in the local manufacture of fertilizers
consumed in Morocco.
125.     Disbursement.  Disbursements from the Loan would be against 100% of
the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports. Disbursements -for raw
materials and fertilizers, animal feed and seeds which would be- imported by
OCP, ONICL and SONACOS respectively, would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. Disbursements for items imported by the private
sector (pesticides, tractors, spare parts, medicines, animal feed, seeds)
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE) from the Bank
of Morocco detailing individual transaction in a given period, together with a
certification of payment of the amounts involved, and of their eligibility
under the Loan. Disbursement for fuel would be made against SOEs, using



- 46 -
established prices in standard reference markets. Supporting documentation
for SOEs would be retained by the Bank of Morocco and made available for
review to Bank supervision missions. Applications for withdrawal would be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million (Section 2.01
of Schedule I of Loan Agreement). The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed
within 18 months of Effectiveness. Counterpart funds generated by the proceed
of the Loan would be used for financing priority investments (Table 5), and
their use would be monitored through the review oE public expenditures (para.
105). In view of the many actions already taken under the adjustment program
and the lead time needed to organize the imports for the 1985/1986 crop
season., retroactive financing upto $10 M for payments made after January 10,
1985 would be allowed. Disbursement for petroleum products would be limited
to US$25M (Section 3.02 of Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement).
126.     Release of Funds and TranchinR.  The proceeds of the Loan would be
made eligible for withdrawal in two tranches of $50 M each, the first upon
Loan effectiveness and the second, when conditions for its release have been
met. The conditions for release of each tranche would relate to the actual
implementation of specific measures with are crucial to the overall
implementation of the sector adjustment program (Annex V). Some of these
measures which have already been accomplished before negotiations are:
(a)  the inter-ministerial approval of circulars/orders to improve the
system of financial control over the ORMVAs (para. 110);
(b)  delineation of at least 20 zones each where transfer of animal health
services to private veterinaries (para. 112);
Cc)  the approval of budget document to finance the incremental investment
and operating costs of Phase I of the new agricultural extension
program (para. 114);
Cd)  the approval by INRA Board of the new organization structure, the
list of research stations to be transferred and the reduction of the
G-4 seed production program (para. 115); and
(e)  the identification of the retail sale points of FERTIMA which meet
the agreed criteria for closing down (para. 116).
127.     Special conditions of Loan effectiveness - or the release of the
fi-st tranche - would be (Section 5.01 and Part A of Schedule 5 of Loan
Agreement):
(a)  an increase in the weighted average unit reference price for
fertilizers by 15% (para. 107);
(b)  an increase of 30Z in the margins for storage of domestically
produced wheat and barley procured on account of ONICL (para. 118);
and
(c)  establishment of a monitoring committee (para. 132).
128.     The conditions for the release of the second tranche (Section 1 Para.
4 and Part B of Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement) would be:



- 47 -
(a)  a satisfactory progress on the implementation of the overall sector
adjustment program (Annex V); with specific attention to
implementation of (1) the improved animal health care and breeding
services (para. 112), and (ii) improved water charge recovery program
(para. 108);
(b)  an increase in the weighted average unit reference prices of
fertilizers by 20% (para. 107);
(c)  increase in the ex-mill price of selected high value animal feeds by
15Z (para. 107);
(d)  cessation of the operation of at least 20 of INRA's field stations,
and the preparation of a plan of priority research activities for the
INRA stations which would continue to operate (para. 115); and
(e)  actual closing down of at least 80% of the FERTIMA retail points
which meet criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 116).
129.     Specific measures under the adjustment program which were agreed at
negotiations, and will be monitored as dated covenants are:
(a)  phasing out of the fertilizer subsidies by December 1990 (para. 107
and Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement);
(b)  carrying out the overall water cILarge collections program designed to
improve collection rates in order to reach at least 90% recovery in
1989 (para. 108 arnd Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement);
(c)  development of a methodology, satisfactory to the Bank for
establishing domestic cereal producer floor prices, by June 1986
(para. 108 and Section 3.03 c of Loan Agreement);
(d)  establishing before September 1985 an inter-ministerial expert group
to prepare an operational plan for strengthening the domestic price
support program, under TORs satisfactory to the Bark, and providing
by June 30, 1986 the plan for review by the Bank, (para. 117 and
Section 3.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement).
130.     Additional actions in few selected areas which were agreed to be
monitored as dated covenants (Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement) were:
(a)  completing the inter-ministerial review or the prices and incentives
study by June 1986 (para. 106);
(b)  completing the study to define measures to liberalize animal feed
prices, by December 1986 (para. 107);
(c)  finalization of the first program contract between one selected ORMVA
and the Government by June 30, 1986 (para. 110);
(d) identification of 20 zones in which to implement a pilot program of
improved artificial insemination services (para. 112);
(e)  completion of a progress report of the first phase of the new
extension system by June 1986 (para. 114); and



- 48 -
(f) establishing of the co-ordination and monitoring committee (para.
132).
131.     Procurement.  Except as noted below, all contracts for the
procurement of fertilizers, pesticides, animal feed and seeds, would be
awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, with the following modifications: (1) advertising would
follow the simplified procedures used for structural adjustment loans; and (2)
domestic preferences would not be permitted. Contracts for seeds, pesticides
and veterinary medicines costing below $500,000 equivalent each, contracts for
animal feed costing below $1 million equivalent each, and contracts for
machinery, spare parts and petroleum,. regardless of cost, would be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser. Tractors and
other farm machinery imported by the private sector are purchased under the
prevailing open market competitive system in which mary reputed importers of
equipment have set up retail and service networks and there is no bar on entry
of more. The latter will be indicated in a General Procurement Notice so that
all intending suppliers are fully informed. Bidding documents, bid evaluation
and award of contracts procured through ICB would be subject to prior approval
of the Bank. For the rest, the Borromer would furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission of the related application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan account, such documentation and i.,formation as the Bank may re-.sonably
request to support withdrawal application in respect of such contract (Section
3.06 and Schedule 3 of Loan Agreement).
D. Manement and Coordination
132.     Management and coordination of the sector adjustment program is the
prime responsibility of the Secretary General of MARA, who would head a
monitoring committee set up by the Minister of Agriculture composed of MARA
Directors. The Secretariat support for the monitoring comuittee would come
from the DPAE, which would, as part of its MARA wide planning responsibility,
prepare status reports on the action programs already prepared for -ach
sub-sector. A semi-annual report on the implementation of the Adjustment
Program would be made available to the Inter-ministerial Review Committee
responsible for monitoring the progress of the Program and is headed by the
Minister of Agriculture, and to the Bank. In addition, prior to the release
of the second tranche, a status report would be prepared by DPAE. Assurances
on these monitoring and evaluation arrangements were obtained (Para. 6 of
Schedule 4 and Loan Agreement).
133.     Evaluation of the specif.c impact of the agricultural adjustment
measures would, in the short disbursement span of the Loan pose special
problems. Evaluation efforts are thus expected to focus on: (a) ensuring the
establishment of a satisfactory data base to evaluate the response over the
medium term; and (b) undertaking special studies of the initial effect of
major changes to ensure adjustments as needed. Special studies, which DPAE
plans to monitor and the MARA divisions most directly connected with the
adjustment measure, plan to execute include:
(a) Investment/Expenditure review by DPAE to identify weak performing
sub-sectors and suggest solutions to improve their absorption rate;
mid-year and end-year analysis;



- 49 -
(b)  Analysis by ONCIL of regional and monthly variation in souk level
prices for cereals, and the operation of the price support program,
and the indicative import/domestic procurement program each year at
the end of September;
(c)  Fertilizers and seeds regional sales analysis by DPV;
(d)  Analysis by DE of the supply response to the increase price
differential between lean and peak season;
(e)  Analysis by DER of the implementation of the water charge recovery
program, end of each season for each ORMVA; and
(f)  Analysis of the cost effectiveness of the services provided by the
livestock department;
(Outlines for these analyses which are included in the Technical
Support Volume were discussed at negotiations.)
E. JustifLeation and Risk
134.     The medium-term adjustment measures considered above should have a
favorable impact at the macro-economic and sectoral levels. At the macro
level, the proposed resource mobilization and subsidy reduction measures would
translate into substantial public savings, and a positive impact on the
balance of payments can be expected from the reduction of present pricing
distortions in the sector through shifts in cropping patterns towards export
crops, supported by parallel steps in trade liberalization and exchange rate
adjustments. At the sectoral level, adjustments in relative protection
patterns between irrigated and rainfed farming should be achieved as a result
of the re-orientation of price policy and strengthening of the floor price
support program for cereals. Positive structural effects with a longer-term
production impact can also be expected through the strengthening of essential
private and public support services and the proposed land policy orientations
for the rainfed sector.
135.     Public savings would be achieved through:  (a) the gradual phasing
out of fertilizer subsidies between 1985 and 1989; (b) the increase in the
water charge collection rates from 43Z in 1984 to 90% in 1991 and the
indexation of water charges in the large irrigation schemes; (c) the gradual
withdrawal of the public sector from the provision of commercial services
below real cost (mechanized services, artificial insemination, etc.); (d) the
gradual charging at real cost of services still provided by public entities;
(e) the phasing out of price controls on animal feed (which would increase the
revenues of public sector sugarmills and reduce the flour milling subsidy);
and (f) the gradual phasing out of unit subsidies on certified-seed.
136.     The positive balance of payments impact to be expected as a result of
the medium-term adjustment measures would stem from the increased
profitability of agricultural exports and from efficient cereals import
substitution. Although the reduction of excessive protection in the irrigated
areas would translate into increased production costs for the producers of
export crops (about 20-25X over the 1985-1990 period if the reform are
implemented according to the schedule presently considered), these should be



- 50 -
fully offset by the impact of realistic exchange rate adjustments on output
prices and by the export promotion measures being considered in the context of
the trade liberalization program (para. 87). The actual availability of
revised incentive prices at farm level for cereals producers which could
result from the proposed improvements in the official price setting mechanism
and in the price support system, should induce a substantial production
response and yield corresponding foreign exchange savings, the magnitude of
which will depend on the actual conditions and timing of implementation of the
proposed reforms over the next few years. Besides a likely increase in
rainfed cereals production, the inter-sectoral adjustment in relative
protection patterns should also lead to shifts in irrigated cropping patterns,
with an expansion of export crops, an intensification of irrigated cereals
production, and a decrease of agro-industrial crops such as sugarbeet and cane
for which only high productivity farming systems will remain profitable.
137.     The restructuring of the public investment program, should increase
the proportion of directly productive and quick yielding investments, and lead
to lower ICORs in the next few years. Improvements of the support services
(extension, livestock, research) should in the longer term induce better
yields and herd performance. The proposed land policy measures (incentives to
farm restructuring, security of tenure) should induce increased land
productivity and on-farm investments. Finally, efforts to conserve the
natural resource base should lead to long-term benefits to protect Morocco's
production potential. The cumulative effect of these adjustment measure;
would be to help Moroccan agricultural move towards the growth rates of i-4%
achieved in the sixties.
138.     The risks of the agricultural sector adjustment program relate to
assessing the length and difficulty of the process, uncertainties in the
external environment and the uncertainties in the response of the private
sector to the adjustments. While Morocco's record of implementing reforms
agreed with the Bank is satisfactory, as evidenced by an absence of default on
major covenants under Bank financed projects, the past stagnation in policy
making until the worsening economic environment became a crisis, creates some
risk about the adequate pace and future sustainability of the reforms.
Uncertainties in the external environment also contribute to increased risk:
these uncertainties partly relate to external trade and exchange rate regimes,
which could reduce the positive budget impact of specific reforms or reduce
the budget neutrality of others and thus reduce the willingness to pursue
them. Another external factor would be weather, which might compel the
Government to reintervene in livestock ieed distribution or slow down the pace
of other price related reforms. The third area of risk is associated with the
uncertainty of response by other participants in the sector to the adjustment.
139.     There are, however a number of features of the Loan which should
reduce these risks to acceptable levels. The active involvement of MARA
working groups and later of other ministries as well in the design of the
detailed action plans, the specificity of the targets and the initiation of
actions under most headings have generated a momentum for change. The
expected flexible and rational exchange rate regime would help assure that the
part of the sector output depending on external markets does not face
set-backs in profitability as experienced in the past.



- 51 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENIS AND AUTHORrEY
140.     The Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
141.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section IIr of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness and tranche release are described in
paras 127-128.
142.     I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
143.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
L.A..J...-M                                              PAGE I
o1mcCo                   - DJEtAL ALDI-TuIALTA Num
1111MUIC1  to     (WEXORTED AulApl) LI
MOST                   (MOST IRrCIII NATEI  Lk
RECDNT          NIDDI  IOM IdS  KN
I %oa       1970a  t  UfATilk   N. AFRICA A MII 1AIT              LAT. APMRICA A CAt
A        (TNonum  sq. m)
TOTAL                                   446.0  e    4.4  1:           b.0 LI
ACRICUILTIRAL                           I92.7        200. I        2aa a,9
ap         CAPITA (1)                       1sa.o        300.0         370.0              1149.0                    2J0o.o
ECT OWIEIUYIO  PEE CFITA
(EiIJcNMN  DF OIL RQUIVALKWT)           l1).0        174.0         234.0                622.3                     995.5
P JLAflON  AM VITAL uUlSUflCE
PIPIILATUI14N10-YEAR (THOUSAUNDS)      il00n       1491.4o       20209.0
IIN1AN POIUIATION IX UV TOTAL)           2Y9.         14.0          41.9                 *d.2                      6bb.
rnl3ULATION PROJCT IONS
IPLPLATION IN TEAR 2000 (MII.)                                    11.2
STATIoNARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      70.4
POPULATIUN MIMIENTUM                                                1.9
POIPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K.                             20.0         31.5          44.2                 15.3                       35.1
PEl S%I. 0. A;RI. LAND                 00.3        71*.           94.5                41b.1                      92.6
IlPUIATIIIN AVE. STtUCTUJEE 42)
0- 14 ytS                             44. 1        41.6          45.4                 43.0                     319..
15-04 YRS                              2.0         43.)           1t.4                51.1                       b. D
bS AND AROVE                            2.A          0.1            3.1                 1.-                       4.1
PUPULATIuN CROWt4 RATV  I1)
TOTAI.                                  2.6          2.S            2.1                 2.6                        2.4
IJRRAN                                  3.1          0.2           4.1                  4.5                        1.0
LIRUIE h)TH RATE (PER THUUS)             50.1         41.5          411.1                *0.4                       11.1
ClRUD  I&ATH RATE. (PIEr TESUS)          21.2         10.9           34.0                11.5                        S.l
.it S REPRODUCTIIN RIATE                  1. 1         1.             3 l.n               2.8                       L.0
FAMILY PLANNINLA
ACCePTLRS. ANNUAL (THnUS)                . .        25.1          7R.0 d
IJSERS (2 Or MARRIED WMEN)               ..           ..          19.0                 22.2                      40.1
FOOD AM IMUTITION
INDECX uP FOOD P3tOD. PKV CAPITA
I1909-71-100                            99.0         93.0          34.0                 91.1                     114.3
PER LAPtTA SUPPLY UF
* AL'IRIES (2 OF REIQUIREMENTS)       101.0        104.0         3li.0                110.t                     13n.6
nPoITelrS (GRAMS PER DAfY)              4.0         67.o          71.0                 70.1                       17.3
dIF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           14. 0        13.o          14.0 /               17.8                      34.1
CHILD lAliES 1-4): DEATH XATE           b3.5         ?10.0           22.0                14.6                        5.7
HCALTI
LIFE EXPurT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            4b.7         50.h          51.9                 57.5                     t44.7
INFART 'hORT. RATE (PFR TROUS)          360.5        114.0         125.0                101.5                      60.h,
ACCESS TIl SAFE WATER (tloP)
TUlTL                                  30.0         51.0          55.0 /d              59.J                      65.4
URBAN                                  S8.?         92.0         100.0 7i              84.5                      73.3
RURIAL                                 19.0         23.0          25.0 7'd             38.4                      46.2
ACCESS TIl EXCRETA IlISPOSAL
(t [IF POPULATlIN)
TnTAL                               ,     .         29.0            ..                   ..                      52.9
URDAN                                    *-         75.0            ..                   ..                      67.0
HURAL                        *                       4.n            ..                   ..                      24.5
PJPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               9410.n      2790.0       10750.0 If            4345.1                    1917.7
PUP. PER fJURSINC PERSON                   ..       2740.0        I Rl0.07             1131.1                     815.1
POP. PFR HOSPITAL bED
TOTAL                                 630.0        6b0.0         7S0 0                012.9                     167.2
UIRBAN                                   ..        450.0         hlO0 7               545.5                     411.5
RURAL                                    ..       3810.n        3010.0 7;            2513.5                    26-6.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         15.5          31.9 /e              26.2                      27.3
NOnsI I ic
A%VEKAGF SIZE OF HLOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4. O         5.5
UltHAN                                  4.3          4.9
RtURAL                                  5.1          5.t
AVERACI, 1O. OP PERSONS/RoOq
TOTAL                                   2.2          2.4
['RHAN 2.1                                          2.1
RUtRAL                                  2.1          2.6
A CESS To rLECT. (I OF IDELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..            ..                 46. 2
URBANt                                   *-         6E.4          05.0                 Z7.7.
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..                 36.1



- 53 -                                               ANNEX I
T A I L  I A                                         PACE 2
MOROCCO                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                                RKPERZNCe GROUPS CWEIKGTED AVERAGES) =
MOlT                 (MOST RECENT EBTINATI) lb
inotk  ,970k        RICCENT         MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLCTHCOmE
1960A!!    197b!   cESTIHATELk    N. AFICA & MID EAST          LAT. AMERICA & CAR
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED  NIROLLJET RATIOS
PRIMARYI   TOTAL                    47.0         52.0         78.0               58.3                    105.4
HALE                     67.0        67.0          97.0              102.3                    106.3
FEMALE                   27.0        36.0          60.0               73.6                    104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     5.0         13.0         26.0               43.0                     43.2
MALE                      7.0         16.0         31.0               52.3                     42.3
FEMALE                    2.0         7.0          20.0               .I4.0                    44.5
VOCATIONAL (t OF SECONDARY)           30.2          2.3          1.0                10.3                    33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER IRATIO
I'AIMARY                            42.0         34.0         36.0                30.3                    30.1
SF.CONDARY                           0.0         20.0         20.0                23.1                    16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                13.8        21.4         28.0                43.5                    79.5
CONSIIBPrTLO
PASSENGER CARS/TIHOUSAND POP          10.7         14.9         21.5 JA             17.8                    46.0
RADIO RECEIVERSIrHOUSAND Pop          45.6         62.5        155.9               138.8                   225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.4         11.6         38.9               46.1                    107.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             22.1         16.2         12.3 fl             31.2                    63.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.5         1.5 fh       2.0                 1.7                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FDRCE (THOUS)           3389.0       3939.0       5361.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    10.0         14.2         16.0                10.6                    23.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.0         57.0         52.0                42.4                    31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.0         17.0         21.0               27.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATIUON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.1        26.3         26.5                26.2                    32.2
MALE                                 52.1        45.2         44.4                46.4                    49.3
FEMALE                                5.9         7.5          8.5                 5.8                    15.2
ECONOMIC DEI'LNUENCY RATIO             1.6          2.0          1.8                 1.8                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PEKCENT OF PRIVATE INCUME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5St OF HOUSEOLDS             16.0 /i     20.0 /t
HICIIEST 202 oF IIOUSEKOLDS         43.3 7i      49.0 7?i
LOWLST 201 OF IIOUSEHOLDS            7.0 7r       4.0 71.
LoWESi 4uo OF HOUS.IIOLDS           16.0 7T      12.0 7?.
P'OVERTY TARGET CKOUPS
ESTIhATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               107.0       157.0        389.0 If           274.8                    286.2
RURAL                               66.0        101.0        238.0 7?            177.2                   184.0
ESTlIMATED RELATLVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IJSS PER CAPiITA)
hiR"i:                                 ..          ..        242.0 If           402.6                    522.8
RURAI                                 ..           ..        157.0 7?           284.9                    372.4
ESTIMATED PUP. RFI.lW A1BSOLUTE
POVERRI' I %'  :r Vi:.  ;
Ud(lsr.                              51.0        38.0         28.0 /f
RURAl1.                             49.0         45.0         45.0 7?F
NOT 1vAIIALS.
WI' AIPLILAPLL
N O T E S
/a   n.. grouV .'verl;-% lfur each indicator are population-weighted arithmecic man.  Coverage of countries among the
I.lWI. .r rnt    J'.ti.. .n nvailability of data and iu not uniform.
lb   Unles        l.     .d, "ata for 1960" refer to cay year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; an:l dLt.rn lIr 'MDst Recent Emtimt&  between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Excl,rdec 'he .-n-SpanLsh Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; If 1979; /L 1978; /h 1972; A  Concumption expenditure of
hou:ehnl Id-.
JUNE, 1984



-54-                                                           ~~~~~~~ANNEX I
bsi
ftis.  Stlsqi lb.   B daam itIi  lee- messe. pete-tht joamelshe b   u   astetiast.s  5d "IAlltehla  it .bid ale. is matd ibm  Skyim  usy mmt b  essstml
-MEpasist  bodess. .1  t lb ash     0 0".1 lseds   4alistite   as e-sIa  -ell by diel.u   s.m.a-I"e I. .s1tieesi  lbo Ils.  l"a do.ito. setbstsss  is.lwt 
li.ecsh. elders at saaesided. IisAl- sreated. .A ebeseiseetme .seieta aaja diflls oesa   bes             . snide.
l      oayss   r""spal a 1  lb- I ats n  entry  Iee  .1 lb. .bjae  dimaeritt   .5 3II  a ale     atatp stub Sandea liaise im"""r   ian  lbs  lb ea Vs Init    ofe 1iiS
sitislsteil.  Ii lb. eslsss  ge"sP dame tbe 1"sea m  se paplititt  esglhise sit%alts saM EM  tus  tUbulaesr ud eohm I  SetA -berts,t  Sb the  erirmt  I.ea
Seip ba lisa fre miss ibt4atas.  hiss lba   mess el MeseeIs. Sam  lb. isi1aises lipss  ai Sb s.siishsiiy at dai a tois1 PAi stips. saeisamie   li b
mmiesut   iso maestm  messs 5  em soItrn, is ammus R.  bm aciui  ae sey mtetl It suspeel   lbm yule   so m   Ilets;e et a Imis emome itt easey us
S       Iiussa1bl                                                                             ltffEmTrsA   -                  I'lelatiet"1."1 hi "'A"e At        1"
Wie4 -l.m.  meaeaEs sesys *to timd S     aces i   I.leSi uilers5  lool,                           .till4ihtW emua a  usbtl am eseulysa.
1101 late.                                                                        '"uant5Ict                   955:  Pseatmale  Il4I    by isar my eemuet LIP
lieliduulni. - issiusia at eatetsaiee   dMme tetatri atc .0paesaest,.                                           -ip       *omd  mositiasi uadsi    press- tautsries  m5
T- I ..  .psaise. amoebs usd ktisli  sldau- sets tIe laitets tfl.                            aselis  usetlietrso.esaqs                              *Ipiit  si.
llt)o ud ma dams                                                                                                                              er,
lrautaNxasSh     -Se?P pa   su    ssna                etc"e    erbhal piset.                      -waltehta et poil. asl plateis innS  us epesis                 i ii  ad
Isis. L0,5, a  tilt dAis,                                                                       by el Isass       a      m phyt tales . ithlb Flt    1hl5a  '"AtuSWIpy eesslet
*5iM s eI    mIsdd.iMe        mbs lssl. bessa. lmcsd         futh No
ITILWMM         I"A ~- l.In  syyswaml sets-eitet ateeea                                   as tomitlawa  ao  passimmasiil staitul by a ehysts tet lbs he   asset-
rm%e:eTu M             ak:u .. patcatsM. usoiua  am  dal bpose. a  m                     sei   *sm5o atd-lb.5 a-I.l V111e1 slrme  lo-ps  assaii                   i
th.EE   -1.-    1a"ly   .ht,ia   - tilt, ama li,mOovets,                                        arl.ises .1 depit   rse,si m.    pwuspttueviPsmst.." pes wI ce
ipai -lsl    Matit 'am   tiesIs. eld madat  sat.elar  . et
-  5        gg.,- Seto let,      Slit,. ills. ed  list                                            W  6.;1.iat1 -IF atod Setletu    s5wlub
M&I~~~~~~~Ia
....tcaws.tsi-esatssCets-I  edtci maltai sesprahillta  di MityIkt h.lVaAl.9a-   fa
am00 smertaj  Sl, lPMdMS. s5        AM.1 til  dis  .ars, lssat  sshstl uesusea  hupayt)- u$                                                             rcbua   cesAt
eWbsbsesulse  s  siresp at   M     -lg   ssret im   esle
PA : IAEM   I P  mpCs.css  papbateisp jat   aeb  --ed    Pat.                        slsesl    at.bra   tiacus   ssym        aast
tat  ay  si -r sMO eS  -s uS ibsc eteitsyamasty L.6b1besaheld7h                                         raeffi.   sttitia  pipgs ee.i     -. ~             1-.1m 
rie. Pr.,ta  paEsaa   tat mealty wIsM sI.         tm  atL the*crausPc atsreWe ee ne..                                              c      sretuie mb
pisast   ees       .. litu e asleiat hcs  ttreieentsae'   me   a.e                                          s    salwb. asl cast  esep                    Itd P.,-..la .
_ests    ma  tAsl  us.14 teasIl  ssassa   e               -hto.. 5 r-. 115lutisi.  wupes.lr    etiatmsems-pae.ntseieeu
.,la  -  rli 1iihameqest.  ist si  esl  r          I, sit"u lbs11c ass                         55e.La
eel issrele  .1 -sn  mesemes LIs-it sem  I.  Th  siss m=ry""                                                                P    ,   -   iiifs~iiUssCl3l~   e  t partdagawtlesf repamlm
pspialteaa sim     ma utkiasti   E Sblautsel am i Mpesiseed ehrue- y.clmey.  ss-e-sc papelusiees  us.-Iety t-stWbs .ebaidas  san h-i
taIs at, isesf      aiu   i         Mhspseles   s  h  eas  et istl  .1                        rsse  hs  ajei   tic dittleret tusubs et pniesry, ses-ell, Is.
iiliiist  tu    lil . ed hted lets.                                                     pap,its s   emelly etitta    ism Idim easelleatstrsas  e
Ice m.,is        1-. srteies  te   -Ctuta   s  bssts  secssue  tedaari- mis
sstt150  tCSs   ldSdle                                             csItes   satettsts   tsemyf    estetts  si
lsyelemt   Ms mmrctsta Iswcsstl   Chitlr   11.-tapasral.  scitss-ua 155-tussle   mbisat,  edmiest, *.flSiilceess fssumepacateuslepas
telastas teach   TSs (ssceal - sid  -- M mai-merstgass m a shes-                                -alt Mtsa scs  Isse.- s.  l - Lsss.r  S-4alts -i   srdu    csie
paests   icO thu-h. WlO-s astlli,a  ssaeaa  islet Sell pasatwite .1                                                                5 Itats4  -ed Ime.
jsrpamsiw eat till 1575.srilis  de.4                   -'-ifhfI
(wStbehIsisjyreiem51         -aset -m       I pa e  ihamuad a     al-es                  pesIt, Cars tsa  siaes   mUeltie       ees   se   ec 
"apI 'la" in."570  edstls.er   ststais   lt  paeeset- saleatIS elLesa-. smse
pesptitit saks  eel. to-    tte-ee  seva    Ss   elh.il,5                                      esiat   sems   alspeta                   A5  t  sylslimst asssm. -
Vests  tlsesess-  ft.se.  Maui libsteams       sss Am-ba           et      L.ytr                -sets   saestIi   acrsapsam                            i   aau      usa
may ilt-.mca  Ispled M.  sSe.  imytem ..t re-slast  sal  pimii                                 sutls  etlbi   leet
I1  met    m-I.'u    s sss.1.msese.e,e5. tss  lamin u                                                                            d .ptases    aSse  *'se  s-ees
eels.5t Pt.-etS..ss    M -i         t(:v 1                1me,.            P.                    - i ...*Iss . - Ist  4.se.i Ist  15 rmetpese.  1. se 5prl u  Me saltml
am                 -P                    ~~~~~~~~~~5Pa,e.-.a                    -.lm.es..  ee.1.1s.   se-.catem   u-ess   us''se.l.,sel
Isis.                                                                        Leem rit.=da
dMa-.              ofihi  seaptirs %Isea    Imetl . Wulss  t aels  mupsealtu  dt.11 emSt. I.... tI.s Is asiamme trt   sea as1                                              A
spct." me  sitiass mm5.st.       bs-   meutes meluli estee.  wa.   ml,tsauie   ut  uu   l1                                      as
ft,   lis   eltitwsyesatse   5Ema5,lsttta                                                      rst tta)n   - Y...  testsmd. lea  feces - paraleg sP.     sle 1Isle, ws-e
ismtrsal  m. eslsla  b  re  hed      iyalsL. tEl Pe.,ta -piat. W.ys.yjjnf ba                                  she  setsu ts  sus. esesir         . he -t-t 
.,tsW m     iie th :.tsid I-t d- 'fstrseai isaactae. tislde   at5sa                    mpitiiltsaesusss a   e et matti   I.e tes  mi-.,sits as,.  dale
-a ils ad~ et ue-sspt-fat- selgme Sac- Pestats msses ee  ar.a-rto IllS sa   ut less
-  suipy site _pas j y.   Isct  tia F"Md-p,tLeeeM         -se.                          sittslmSt  tewes   - t_st  mi.  asSft umat-aeieuess M
as  em!m 5wI   ia   esea   esLpa  a  aS. -W10  e    cam    Spiets   atI isal .                                  esia  a tasels yb atsstas asM 1et0 ease r      eIe"l..
M ss-daiedeasIesus Int .5 ltres .t .              ls "Otsm    5temetls .1_ a                                     P-m    Issuse      P. ts   paele.   ml   ea 1m  red
sFasr  e  paselsuse  ieteg  tar ib esIs- id.yrspe   it_ 151 Ia e.pi.                           tI  sIiatid tes mret  imt  et
tir   fl    iS  sec  'lEt-h i. ' 15a lites      ala  IsIs.                          ssesas  Pcsiae  sta     ulkatpisuls   Cei seiia   me5
7c mlt  sesI  mcs  te:.     te:.Mei                       goeltaspt  a   a                S    se  tabsfat-ic.                ..
dariu       t Cs-ealsi  F55 pain      t Is sim   patdat   hi-al . 5i t-as   slIteI                                L,---df-1                              o
dais           of~1110S- &.t   .?h-16. tamst55?lss tet                                                              d.          1- -    ea           P191pt."t
ChIll(ems5-stbalilasstys    Ishaes  S Ame I Isah  pr IP L isMae   uE~~ Wss    asss  maS-E                                                -ui  a   tdI 1- sasce   he  lria
m..Am stese t-. Asse  is  hilwa  Ia, this mm4. asesty   bur mto euselsytes                    pe s." tstresa  is pen-    . emesIprs' t Is ih  mema
stesrls l.ass li.  e   seesE lies  saies  tll, 197- ml  lustde1..                             lmastE
StiflEs        tneon  ta try Cusses                                                                                       - ""
S U r                                                   ..p.. (ss,are    asl  ih  uael .ac s.  wet  sTM  g--M-sll-a.                                                -.,m
tabi  ee epebti Iseleta  r stdpas   [Itole  ml metllb Am  em eAa ta.ch utah Edjsms  ta-  tIthrilus  eco siss   Is  iba "s"s                                  "
hesfIt       art  es   -tnmht  asse1tseld aWyIy lb  lb  heesl "Z                               s.d ae   rasty e  eMmi-d. ptysalst ae      --ace  ss-d
em-st   beas  e pepd   tase L                                                                 metsl-tal  t    Pseat eswas by asf                             P:,ta=
-mLsa    m         Vaelsasa   il  eas            I.s.a ppalus am. isarI  dl--epseat                                                      -19.dat
esy t ami.e  pial    featilsst    P5 llsasal. s-tIb s  stIllest   madsle st. c                 -1  i-d           - at    tIg    r .-I-F   m1. mama  IbI  iessle
has -mactau   esleesW        c by eslec-heseyls  evil. e            tE 5 E*assbtet   5  Paelusieaa
1sjsses  ad elastc teuss lasts-,he-tine



-55-
Population         20.1 million (mid-1983)                                                                                             sANI
GNP Per Capita:  USS 750 11983)                                                                                                    Page 4 of 6
WIW~O    FosmxeIC O WNTATtlE
Amount
(million USS at                           Annual Gromth Rates it1
current prices)                          Actual                                Proiected
Indicator _                    1981           2 f     79 1j         198    jl9    Ijg    IM   AJ  1ins    1486 _ma7
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domstic product A/    13301             2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3    6.6    2.2    2.4            4.3    2.7    2.8
Agriculture                   2247        18.0   -17    6.1  -22.9   19.9   -4.6    2.1            5.1    2.0   2z.
Industry                     4247         -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.1    2.2    2.1    0.l            3.0    3.0    3.0
Services                      5911         4.0    5.1    6.4    6.1    6,4    5.0    3.2            4.7    3.0    3.0
Consumption                     11794         4.2    5.8    2.5    1.9    6.0    0.5    1.1            4.2    1.6    1.7
Gross investment                 2737       -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -9.6    7.0  -14.4    6.0            0.5   -3.4   -1.6
Exports of GNFS                  2993         3.3    0.9    3.6    2.2    5.3    7.6    4.8            4.2    1.7    9.2
Imports of GNFS                  4222       -17.4    3.3   -9.6    4.1    3.7  -11.0    3.9            0.4   -0.1    2.0
Gross national savinss           1863       -15.4    3.2    6.0  -33.4    3.9   21.9   14.1            4.7    8.1    8.6
GOP deflator (1980 = 100)                    85.4   91.7  100.8  110.8  121.6  125.0  139.9
Exchange rate CUS5 per OH)              .     240   .256   .254   .193   .166    141   .114
Share of GOP at Market Prices Ct_                                Average Annual Increase (t)
(at current orices) c2                  (at constant 1969 price1s         (at constant lOae oricesl
1111   1220   1975   19M    1211   1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-8 0l9HO-85                 l9H
Gross domestic product                                                          4.0        4.8        5.3              2.7          2.8
Agriculture              29.1   19.9   17.9   18.1   14.4   14.0            3.5       -1.4         4.4            -0.7           2.3
Industry                 23.5   27.0   35.2   32.3   31.0   31.3            4.7        7.1        4.1              1.6           3.0
Services b/              47.4   53.1   46.9   49.6   54.6   54.7            4.1        5.5        6.2              4.4           2.6
Consumption                  89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   88.1   84.2            4.1        4.8        5.9              2.3          1.9
Gross investment             10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   17.4   14.7            8.0       12.2       -1.1             -2.7         -0.7
Exports GNFS                27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.7   26.3             1.3        0.0        4.8             5.2           7.9
Imports GNFS                26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   26.2   25.2            3.5         7.9        1.7            -0.7           2.1
Gross national savings    11e.  14.8   19.3   14.6   12.2   15.9                3.5       14.2       -4.5             -1.4          8.4
As X of GOP
1960      1220        1975      l9H0        1982       198
PUBLIC ElNANCE
Current revenues                                   16.5       16.1       23.3       21.6       22.7       22.2
Current expenditures                               15.6       14.5       20.2       21.8       22.6       22.7
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                          0.9        1.6        3.1       -0.2        0.1       -0.5
Capital expenditure                                 3.8        5.7       12.2       12.2       13.8        8.4
Foreign financing                                              1.3        3.7        5.6        7.2        3.6
1960-70   1970175   1927Z5        S80a8s  i18suia
OTHER INRICAMRS
GNP growth rate CZ)                                 4.0        6.0        4.9        2.3        2.6
GIP per capita growth rate Ct)                      1.6        3.1        1.8       -0.2        0.1
Energy consumption growth rate (S)                  3.8        6.7        5.6        3.2        2.8
ICOR                                                3.09       3.0        4.1        8.3        5.7
Marginal savings rate                               0.10       0.38      -0.15       0.13       0.42
Import elasticity                                   0.95       1.84       0.13      -0.25       0.75
a/  Components are expressed net of import taxes and will not add to the total due to this exclusion.
ba Import taxes included In services.
g/ Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
ei Estimate.
May 2. 1985
EMENA CP II-B
ID o01OBpl



-56-
Population        20.1 million (mid-1983 lIAIl'
GNP Per Capita:  USS 760 (1983)                                                                                              rage s of 6
HOLD CCO - EXTERNAL T5AM
Amouint
Indicator                 (million USS at                  Annual Crowth Rates IKXI tat  ons%tant 19U0 nra ees
current prices)                        Actual                         P_ate_ _          _d
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)             2006              4.0         1.1        J0.2         8.4           3.6       a.a        9.4
Prirary products                   12S1             -2.9       -11.         4.7         8. 5          3.6        3.4        3.4
Phosphate rock                  496              -5.4      -10.6         4.8         5.8           4.0        3.0        3.0
Others                           755             -1.0      -12.6         4.5        10.5           3.2        3.7        3.7
IntUrnmdiate A manufactures         a35             25.2        32.0        19.1        8.1           3.6       16.3       17.0
Merchandise Imports (CIF)             3624              4.4         6.1        -7.5         7.5          -0.4       0.4        1.9
food                                534             22.9       -1.e1        -15.       21.9          -9.6       -6.4        0.1
Fuels                              9g8              10.6        -1.8        0.7         9.6           0.0        0.0        0.0
Machinery and equipment             682             -3.3        30.0       -26.2         4.6           0.0      -4.6       -3.2
Others                             1422             -2.2        1323        -3.3         2.2           3.2       4.9        5.3
PRICES (1980 c 1001
Export price Index                                    119.4       122.1       134.6       159.1         181.3     203.5      226.6
Import price index                                    123.2       139.5       149.3       187.0        207.0      228.7      251.5
Terms of trade index                                   93.1        811.0       90.1        85.1         87.6       B9.0       90.1
Composition of merchandise Trade (X)                       Averge Ann ul Increase ttl
tat euru        riepsi               (Constant 1969 prires)             LConstant 19fO orires
197     im7      lsHo    1q85    I99         197-75         1975-eO              lf112:|U    19FU2aU
Exports                                                                          -1.3            6.8                  S.8        7.9
Primary products                89.4    86.9    75.S    53.S    47.1           -2.8            5.3                  0.3        3.3
Intermediates & manufactures   10.6    12.9    24.5    41.5    52.9             7.6           12.8                 17.8       13.2
Lnports                                                                           8.6            0.7                  1.6        2.1
Food                            16.9    25.0    16.3    16.0    14.1           13.1            2.9                 -0.1       -0.2
PetroleuL                        5.5    10.8    232S    25.7    25.0            9.1            5.2                  3.4        1.6
Machinery end equipment          24.1    24.0    18.5    16.6    14.1          12.0           -7.3                 -1.3       -1.3
Others                          53.5    40.2    40.9    41.7    46.8            5.2            2.8                  2.5        4.4
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries l1X         Davelyoina Countries I1X    Cpnital Surplus Oil Exporters 12'
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7       76.5        27.7      25.4       21.6                    0.9           1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9       72.9        22.3      Z5.1        3.3                                 1H.8
e/ Estimate.
may 2. 1985
ENEMA CPIIB
10018D0p3



- 57 -
Population    :  20.1 million C,id-1 35)
GNP Por Capita:  USS 750 (1913)                                                                                    Page 6 of 6
.oROrnO  - ULMI![ OF PA         - fXTIIMAL   PITAL Aln  EI
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                              Actual                                     Proiected
g&L NI  OF PAYhNS
Exports of goods and services          7"n5   3694   4364   4132   3843   3921   4070           4623   5319   6264   9730
or which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    I...   1938   2414   2283   2043   2086   2151              2437   2977   3628   6066
Imports of goods and servAces          4363   6268   5912   6095   5912   UUaa   6147           5412   5993   6703   9325
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2628   3245   3770   3840   3315   3298   3586              3783   4196   4700   6637
Net current transfors                    so      44    128    102    170        94     97         70      74      77     *9
Current account balance               -1348  *1530  -1420  -1861  -1899    *873   -981          -819   -600   -367    494
NeL Direct Foreign Investment            45      37    109       73    102      47     51         56      62      68     91
africial Grants                         260    420       96    313    204       44      16          -      -       -
MLT loans (not)                         890   1017   1036   1103   1354    230    606           1007    997    909   -427
Official                             388    341    722   1033    740    340    389            661    715    693   -216
Private                              502    676    314       70    614   -110    217          426    244    216   -211
Otler capital (net)                     215      -4      79    291    323    541    424         -209   -366   -312   -107
Change In reserves                      -63      61    too      81    -84       11   -115       -116    -90   -295    -S1
International reserves                  772    917    814    510    540    376    440 U56    646    944   1025
Of which:  Gold                      154    360    415    280    322    269    217            217    217    217    217
Reserves as months imports              2.1    2.1      1.7    1.0    1.1    0.9    1.0          1.2    1.3    1.7    1.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND OtBT
Gross disbursements                    1446   1826   1711   2047   2310   U84   1208
Official Grants                      260    420      96    313    204       44      16
Concessional loans                   325    294    761    889    SS7    209    284
?AC                                91     77    lOO    126    125        49    145
OPEC                              189    168    584    746    401    11S         79
IDA                                 -      -       1       1      1       1       3
Other                              45     49      76      16     30      43      57
Non-concessional loans               B61   1112    354    845   1549    631    908
Official export credits             3      2      12      54    103      50    144
IBRD                               72    137      64      99    134    174    240
Other nultilateral                 53      7      13    123      70      23      23
Private                           732    965    765    670   1243    333    502
Suppliers credits              10       8      12     26      52       8     16
Finai1al credits and bonds 722    957    753    543   1191    375    486
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   5144   6204   7109   7953   9054   9445  10512
Official                        2476   2853   3496   4373   5004   5694   6596
Private                         2668   3350   3612   3610   4049   3552   3916
Undisbursed debt                    2284   2403   2154   3146   2487   3658   3310
Debt service
Total service payments               548    801    1193   1266   1334   1120   1189
Interest                         253    412    614    634    531    510    603
Payments as X exports of GtS        18.5   21.7   27.3   30.6   34.7   28.6   29.2
Average interest rate on new loans (%)  7.0    8.2    8.2    8.4   10.1    7.4    8.3
Official                                4.9    5.2    3.8    3.7    6.9    5.5    6.3
Private                                 9.7   11.1   13.4   13.7   11.B   10.5   11.6
Average maturity of new loans (years)  13.2   15.7   13.7    9.5   11.0   15.9   15.7
Official                               16.3   21.7   18.6   11.6   19.7   21.1   19.3
Private                                 9.1    9.8    7.9    7.1    6.3    7.6    8.1
As I of Oebt Outstandina at End of Most Recrnt Year fiios1
Maturity structure of debt cutstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                 48.8
Maturities due within 10 years                                80.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                 S.9
C/ Estimate
May 2. 1985
EHENA CP II-B
1D 0180lp4/5



- 58 -
STATUS OF BANK OPERAITONS
A.  STAT]FNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CEDITS A-
(As of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                       Amount (loss cancellations)
Credit                                                                USS Million
mber    Barr awrrewr                       Purpose           QAnk       in      Undis5urld
Thirty four Loans fully disbursed                           897.08
Five Credits fully disbursed                                          45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Horocco    Agriculture           41.0                  15.39
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            50.0                 36.60
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              88.0                 63.94
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                 42.0                  25.02
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          49.0                  13.68
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            58.t                 31.55
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               62.0                 14.28
1848    1950    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                 17.01
1943    1981    CIH                     Tourtsm             100.0                 42.09
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  25.0                     21.46
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                 69.46
2037    1982    8hDE                    OFC                  70.0                 49.10
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    OFC (SSI)              40.0                 38.35
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                 22.43
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mintng                  9.S                  8.69
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry               27.5                 25.19
2114    1952    ONAREP                  Oil Shale            11.2                  s.00
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              So.0                 46.21
2217    1953    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            30.0                 29.02
2245    1983    CIH                     Housing Devt.        60.0                 57.30
2253    1953    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            42.0                 41.31
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               85.0                 83.25
2271    1983    ONAEP                   Oil Exploration    75.2                   44.32
2272    1983    Kingdom of Horocco    Village Intrastr.  16.0                     15.88
2367    1954    CNCA                    Agric. Credit       115.4                 77.68
2377    1984    Kingdom of Morocco    Indust. & Trade
Policy Adjust.   15D.4
2477    1985    Kingdomn of Morocco    Voc.Training          271
2487    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.I Mec.Ind         25.1 A
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min.   27.0 A
Total                                                2408.48    45.16
a  iwhich has been repaid                           40S.49      2.19
Total now outstanding                                2002.99    42.99
Amount Sold                        20.11
of which has been repaid         20.11                0.0       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       2002.99    42.99
Total undisbursed                                                           H94.72
a/ Not signed as at 1/31/85.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31. 19855
USS Million
F1scal Year                                                   LtAm onui_U   Total
1963/1975/1984  BNDE                 Development Bank          37.6       2.7      40.3
1966            CIL                  Canning Factory            0.9       0.5       1.4
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                -        1.3       1.3
1977/1980        Temara Cement       Cement Factory             4.7       3.6       8.3
1979             Agadir Cement       Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1950             SOMIFER             Copper Mining             13.0       2.3      15.3
198111983       Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory              i5L        L.i      12.8
Total Gross Conmitments                                      84.5      14.6      99.1
Less cancellation. terminations. repaynents and sales  43.4           Li       46.9
Total comuitments now held by IFC                            41.0      11.1      52.2
Total Undisbursed                                                       0.3       0.3
Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
10.0479B p2/3
05/07/8S



- 59 -                          ANNE  III
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTlENT LOAN
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                  About 12 months
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:             MARA/Bank
(c)  Project first identified by Bank                March 1984
(d)  Bank appraisal mission                          January 1985
(e)  Negotiations                                    April/May 1985
tf) Board. presentation                              June 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  August 1985
Section II: Sptcial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness at.Release of 1st Tranche (US$50 million)
(See Para. 127)
lb) Condition of Disbursement for Release of 2nd Tranche (US$50 million)
(See Para. 128)
(c)  Other Conditions:
(i) The Government will implement a program to eliminate fertilizer
subsidies by December 1990.
(ii) The Government will review domestic cereal producer floor prices
and develop a new methodology for their annual revision, with the
objective of maintaining producer incentives and of gradually
bringing the producer price of cereals at least to the world prices.
(iii) The Government would develop and implement a program to improve
collection of irrigation water charges so as to achieve a level of
at least 90% by 1989; and
1362E/p7



Annex IV
- 60 -                        Page 1 of 8
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President of the World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President:
Following the intensive exchanges of views that have taken place
between the Moroccan Government and the World Bank on agricultural questions
in connection with preparation of the agricultural sector loan, and in the
spirit of the correspondence addressed to you by the Minister of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform in December 1983, I should like to set forth below the
main orientations of our development policy in this vital sector of our
economy and to lay before you the corresponding strategy and action programs
on which we have already embarked and that we plan to pursue during the coming
years.
Before describing in broad terms the recent trends and the potential
of Morocco's agricultural sector, together with the principal constraints it
faces, I should like first of all to place this discussion in its overall
economic context.
During the last few years, Morocco has faced severe external and
4omfstic imbalances caused largely by the repeated droughts, the decline in
phosphate prices, and the increase in the external debt burden consequent on
the rise in the value of the dollar and in interest rates on world financial
markets.  To dcai with this situation, which in 1982 was reflected in budget
and balance of payments current account deficits of 131 of Morocco's GNP and a
debt-service burden representing 361 of its exports, we have embarked on a
stabilization and structural adjustment program. This program is beginning to
bear fruit: in 1984 we appreciably reduced both our budget deficit and our
balance of payments current account deficit (to 8S and 71 of GNP, respec-
tively). However, the continued success of our adjustment program requires
that we pursue our efforts in the areas of export promotion, domestic resource
mobilization, and rational and effective utilization of our public sector and
of the resources allocated to it. This is the difficult setting for our
development policy for the agricultural sector, the broad orientations of
which I should now like to describe.
The agricultural sector of Morocco's economy, which contributes
about 18X of our GNP, employs 40X of our labor force and furnishes more than
two-thirds of our exports, has always received sustained attention on the part
of the public authorities. Thus, it has risen to first place among economic
and social development priorities and consequently receives a large share of
public investment.



61 -                            Annex IV
Page 2 of 8
This policy has yielded cogent results in terms of agricultural
production, particularly of products in chronic short supply in Morocco.
Examples are the progre6sive increase in self-sufficiency in fresh vegetables,
white meat, milk and sugar, products earmarked for development under the
long-term sectoral plans implemented since the start of the 1970s.
This success has been achieved through a dynamic program of
expansion of areas under irrigation, in terms of large-scale as well as of
small- and medium-scale (PMH) irrigation works. PMH projects have been
receiving special attention for several years now, as have the rainfed zones.
Thus, a fundamental goal of the 1981-85 Plan is to achieve an optimum
distribution of resources, both human and financial, among the various
productive zones. This aim has been achieved: the irrigated zones absorb
less than 50% of the budget funds provided for agricultural infrastructure,
against more than 70Z during the previous decade.
These efforts have been supported by:
- the preparation, with FAO assistance, of sectoral plans for
cereals and oil crops, the products of primary concern as regards food
self-sufficiency;
- integration of Government activities relating to the rainfed
zones, with a view not only to raising production but also to promoting rural
development generally. Thus, a number of integrated agricultural development
projects have been put into effect during the last ten years and others are
currently under study;
- development of the agricultural financing system, by bolstering
the agricultural credit distribution network, simplifying agricultural credit
procedures, instituting long-term credit, and other measures;
- strengthening of the input distribution network;
- periodic review of farm producer prices in order not only to
reflect cost increases but also to reduce the terms of trade imbalance between
agriculture and the other economic sectors, and announcement of the new prices
at the beginning of the season;
- the establishment of a special livestock protection fund (Fonds
Special de Sauvegarde de Cheptel) to deal with the damage done to the live-
stock herd by the increasingly frequent droughts of recent years, particularly
in southern and eastern Morocco, where livestock development is indisputably
the appropriate land use.
In addition, detailed basic studies are under way in a number of
fields as preparation for rational planning of the future development of the
agriculture sector. Particularly important examples are the research and
extension master plans, the prices and incentives study, the Agricultural
Investment Code review, the food strategy and the fodder plan.



-62 -                            Annex IV
Page 3 of 8
All these measures and activities, combined with the ongoing efforts
of the farmers themselves, are such as to bring the agriculture sector to play
a more dynamic role. Nevertheless, for several years now agricultural growth
has averaged less than 2% a year as a consequence of, in particular, the
harmful effects of the drought. The sector's development has been charac-
terized by, in particular, a steady worsening of the food deficit and relative
stagnation of exports, with corresponding repercussions on the agricultural
trade balance. This has been accompanied by an appreciable disparity between
the satisfactory results in irrigated agriculture (which covers about 10% of
Morocco's total agricultural area and now contributes nearly half its agri-
cultural value added and more than two-thirds of its agricultural exports) and
the less satisfactory results in the rainfed sector (which provides the bulk
of our basic food products and from which the great majority of our rural
population earn their living). The available indicators nevertheless suggest
that our economically mobilizable agricultural potential is far from being
fully exploited. However, while Morocco is in a position substantially to
increase its domestiz food production -- absolutely essential in order to
avoid a sharp deterioration in our balance of payments position in the future
- the fact remains that many obstacles will have to be surmounted.
In addition to structural obstacles, such as the land tenure question
and the deterioration of our natural resources, for the solution of which we
are currently putting together long-range action programs, our agricultural
development has been hampered by other problems: (a) some discrepancy between
production incentives policy and food policy; (b) an agricultural price and
incentives system that needs to be re-examined in light of the evolution of
the sector and of our financial constraints; (c) heavy dependence of farmers
on inputs and services furnished by the public sector; (d) the inadequate
results achieved in rainfed farming research and extension; and (e) the still
inadequate level of development of our administrative system from the stand-
point of planning, public investment selection, and formulation and analysis
of agricultural policy.
The maintenance of low consumer prices for basic commodities,
combined with a certain over-evaluation of the exchange rate in the past, has
not created conditions for the aevelopment of the rainfed sector and has led
to budgetary difficulties and increased recourse to imports, while certain
products, particularly in the irrigated sector, have for long enjoyed -- and
continue to enjoy, though in a smaller measure -- fairly heavy support.
Moreover, public-sector intervention in the supply of agricultural services
and inputs, although justified at a certain stage in our development, is
beginning to weigh heavily -n terms of intervention costs, by reason of the
constraints within which the semi-public companies involved have to develop.
This question of sharing of responsibilities and functions among the public,
private and cooperative sectors and of the role that the Government should
play in an increasingly complex agro-food situation, is now one of our major
concerns. Research and extension activities, on the other hand, are among
those for which government intervention is vital in the present stage of our
agricultural development. Nevertheless, the results achieved so far have not
always come up to our expectations, particularly in those areas which lack a
network of well-established productiontmarketing/agroindustry. Finally, the



- 63 -                              Annex IV
Page 4 of 8
need is now being acutely felt to strengthen our administrative system in the
areas of planning, public investment selection, and formulation and analysis
of agricultural policy to enable us to achieve greater coherence among our
various agricultural policy instruments (public investment, prices,
incentives, structures).                 I
In light of this package of constraints and the overall economic
context outlined above, we have developed a medium-range plan of action for
restructuring the sector with the aim of increasing its productivity,
improving resource utilization, and raising farm incomes. We, therefore,
intend to give very special attention, in the design of our agricultural
policy, to questions of efficiency and economically sound utilization of our
existing resources. In particular, we propose to give priority to measures to
improve productivity and rationalize the Government's activities from both the
organi- zational and the financial standpoints. At the same time, we are
bearing in mind that the coherence of our agricultural policy depends just as
much on the quality of its integration into general economic policy as on
decisions linked purely to agriculture. Thus, our main concerns in the sector
will be to increase the productivity of current and future agricultural
investments, to enhance the effectiveness of our production incentives policy
and, finally, to define more clearly the areas in which government
intervention is jiustified and those in which a regulatory role would appear to
be more suitable.
This program is built around four major reform topics:
(a) restructuring of the public investment program, with the object. of
encouraging more rapid agricultural growth, particularly in the rainfed sector,
by concentrating the Government's action on directly productive programs and
also by turning the heavy investments already made in the irrigation zones to
advantage as quickly as possible; (b) improvement of the functioning of the
public Eector in supply of services and inputs and phased withdrawal of the
sector wherever other operators can perform this function, particularly at the
level of the ORMVAs, marketing in general, and promotion of the cooperative
movement; (c) strengthening of the institutional structures for analysis,
implementation and monitoring of agricultural policy in order to improve our
development policy, planning and investment selection capability; and
(d) gradual adiustment of our price and incentives policy to the requirements
of economic efficiency and resource mobilization, particularly through
revision of our Agricultural Investment Code, charging of services and inputs
at their true cost, and reduction of major distortions, including those in
food subsidies.
With regard to the public investment program in agriculture, I
should like, first of all to recall that we have already taken a number of
adjustment measures during the last two fiscal years in accordance with the
priorities analyzed, with your participation, at the beginning of the Five-
Year Plan and refined at the time of the Joint Review in May 1984. From the
standpoint of equilibrium both between subsectors and between individual
operations and projects within each subsector, the reprogramming undertaken
has resulted in an appreciable improvement in the quality of our public
investment in agriculture. Thus, a larger share of our program has been
devoted to rainfed agriculture, livestock, small and medium-scale water
projects, and forestry, and many operations have been cancelled or spread over



64                           Annex IV
Page 5 of 8
time so that priority projects can receive the necessary appropriations for
them to be executed within the prescribed time limits. In particular, we have
cut back new investment in the course of the last two years, including those
for administrative infrastructure, which involve heavy recurrent charges, and
equipment, and have given priority to equipping the operations that best fit
into our development strategy in accordance with the criteria set forth in the
Annex hereto for each subsector.
Our 1985 capital budget for agriculture reflects both overall
priority to the agricultural sector, which receives more than 13S of total
appropriations, and vigorous pursuit of the restructuring effort with the
result that the distribution of appropriations among subsectors continues to
reflect the priority accorded to rainfed agriculture (crop production 14X,
livestock 9%, research and extension 7T), forestry (8%), small and medium-
scale water projects (10X) and the economic necessity to put the large-scale
irrigation zones now under execution into service as quickly as possible (39S).
The budgetary appropriations within each subsector again accord priority to
projects and operations that meet the following criteria: (a) early
completion; (b) high economic return; (c) rehabilitation and modernization of
existing plant; (d) low recurrent charges; (e) rapid impact on production and
the balance of payments; and (f) high employment creation. These criteria
will also be applied in selecting new operations introduced during the next
Plan. In connection with this, we should like to be able to exchange views
with you during a joint discussion of the investment program for the
agricultural sector.
We also propose to strengthen our means of action to assist the
rainfed sector by instituting new instruments for encouraging private invest-
ment in agriculture which will enable us to target our actions more precisely
and which we can manipulate more flexibly than the present mechanisms, and
also by reorganizing our field administrative structures (ORMVA, DPA)
responsible for implementing public investment in the field.
The two instruments for encouraging private investment that we plan
to install are the National Agricultural Development Fund and a land credit
program for agriculture. The National Agricultural Development Fund would be
the principal channel for government assistance to private investment. It
would constitute an appreciable improvement over the present system by allowing
more precise targeting of activities to economically viable investments and
also greater management flexibility, particularly through linkage with CNCA
loans. Proposals for assistance to private investment financed by the Fund
will be appraised to verify their economic justification, having regard, in
particular, to the current distortions in the sector, and will therefore be
subject to periodical review. The object of the land credit program that we
propose to study will be to facilitate agricultural land transfers, parti-
cularly upon inheritance, which often entails fragmentation of farms that
reduces them to well below threshold for economic viability.
With regard to improvement of the functioning of the public sector
in the supply of services and inputs, and its withdrawal wherever other
operators can perform this function, our intention is simultaneously to
improve the efficiency of the services furnished by the public sector and



- 65 -                           Annex IV
Page 6 of 8
progressively to detach the Government from activities that can be performed
by the private or cooperative sectors under at least comparable cost and
quality conditions. In particular, we envisage from 1985 onward, measures to
rationalize and enhancco the efficiency of the ORMVAs and of the research and
extension services and progressive withdrawal of the Government from prophy-
lactic and genetic improvement services, agricultural mechanization works, and
coumercial activities, particularly in relation to distribution of inputs. In
line with the objectives set forth in the new charter recently adopted for
cooperative activities, we shall encourage the formation or development of
cooperative organizations in all the areas from which the Government
withdraws. Details of these activities are given in the Annex to this letter.
With regard to the strenathenint of our institutional structures for
analysis. implementation and monitoring of agricultural policy, I should like
to stress that the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform has already
done substantial work on the design of a general framework of government
action in the area of policy formulation and planning. The programming of
hydro-agricultural infrastructure works, supported by cereal and oil-crop
plans, testify to this design effort. Moreover, the basic studies now under
way (food strategy, agricultural investment code, prices and incentives,
master plan for research, fodder plan, etc.) and those envisaged (improvement
of the compilation of agricultural statistics, terms of trade, agricultural
value added, supply and demanrd projections, etc.) will in the future make
important contributions to policy formulation and planning in the sector.
We have already embarked on continuance and expansion of this design
effort, having secured the assistance of FADES. USAID and FAO, who will be
assisting MARA's Department of Planning and Economic Affairs - Direction de
la Planification et des Affaires Economiques (DPAE) - during the coming years.
The USAID program, already under way, comprises activities in the areas of
planning, of economic analysia and of statistics, with, however, a strong
emphasis on the statistics component. The FAO program, financed by FADES,
which will begin by the end of 1985, comprises support in the following
specific areas: (a) preparation and monitoring of execution of annual and
siltiannual development plans; (b) execution of sectoral and sub- sectoral
analyses required for planning purposes; (c) establishment of an operational
system of project identification and monitoring; and (d) execution of
agroeconomic studies, including analysis of production structures and cost
prices, cyclical situation studies, monitoring of agriculture/agroindustry
linkages, and installation of an agricultural national accounts system. The
combination of these two assistance programs will allow us to strengthen the
DPAE and improve our perception, from 1985 onward, of the appropriate role,
essential objectives and activities of tVis MARA Department in the medium term.
At the same time, we find that the scale of the study and economic
analysis work to be carried out at the central administration level is already
substantial and exceeds the DPAE's present and foreseeable resources. We are
therefore considering setting up an economic engineering company, in which the
Government would hold a share of the capital. Such a formula, whose flexi-
bility and efficiency will be apparent, would appreciably speed up instal-
lation of the analysis instruments that are essential for formulating and
ionitoring agricultural policy within MARA.



- 66 -                            Annex IV
Page 7 of 8
Finally, we also envisage strengthening the economic analysis
capacity of MARA's various technical departments by organizing specialized
training courses for their technical specialists. The departments could at
the same time call upon the services of the proposed engineering company for
the execution of economic studies in their respective fields of competence.
With regard to adjustment of our price and incentives policy to the
needs of economic efficiency and resource mobilization, we have also initiated
a number of basic actions including, in particular: (a) an overall study of
prices and the incentives system in agriculture, and (b) a study of the balance
sheet of the Agricultural Investment Code, designed to yield proposals for
revision of the Code. The first of these studies is being carried out by a
team of MARA economists with the assistance aE a consultant. It will enable
us to identify a package of measures aimed at reducing the principal distor-
tions that exist in the sector and also the budgetary cost of our agricultural
and food policy and to define a medium-range food price and security policy.
We believe that this study can be completed by June 1985 and that its
conclusions will then be discussed at the inter-ministerial level. The agri-
cultural policy adjustments and reforms ensuing from the recommendations
produced by this study would in fact constitute an additional component of the
package of measures presented to you in this letter. The second study is
already well advanced: two preliminary reports dealing with the overall
balance sheet of the Agricultural Investment Code have been prepared, and we
expect to be in a position to develop proposals for revision of the Code in
1986.
In parallel with these two basic studies, whose results will
facilitate the choice among options in developing our price and production
incentives policy, we have already introduced, or plan to introduce from 1985
and 1986, numerous adjustments (detailed in the subsector annexes to this
letter) relating, in particular, to the prices of the various inputs and
services (animal health, genetic improvement, cattle feed, irrigation water,
mechanization, fertilizer, seed, etc.) and to the program of support of cereal
producer prices.
The annex to this letter details the objectives, action programs and
specific measures that we propose for the short and medium term in the
principal subsectors (irrigation, livestock, agronomic research, extension,
reforestation, input marketing, land tenure policy, and cereal marketing) in
order to implement the four major reform topics referred to above. These
reforms may be summarized as follows. In irriRation they will comprise
sharper emphasis on the projects for rehabilitation and intensified
development; allocation of a larger share of resources to small and
medium-scale water projects; completion of the ongoing physical development
program; implementation of a program for improving the collection of water
charges, and series of measures to enhance the financial and management
autonomy of the ORMVAs; and a program of gradual transfer of commercial-type
services to the private sector and the cooperatives. In livestock, the
essential reforms will comprise transfer of artificial insemination services
to cooperatives and of prophylactic services to the veterinary profession;
institution of a price policy for economical solution of the problem of
seasonal fluctuations in milk production; and, finally, progressive



-67 -                           Annex rV
Page 8 of 8
deregulation of the prices and marketing of high-nutrition cattle feeds
currently subject to government control, which should encourage fodder
development and increased utilization of other, cheaper cattle feeds. In
agronomic research, we propose to reorganize the National Agronomic Research
Institute -- Institut National de Recherche Agronomique (INRA) - in order to
concentrate the research effort on priority programs, improve coordination
among the various institutions involved in research, and strengthen the links
between research and extension. In extension, we propose to introduce the
national-level training and visita system by 1989, beginning with about 30
zones (out of 250) from 1985 onward. In forestrr, where our reforestation
programs have suffered from inadequate budget appropriations and difficulty in
releasing the funds at the time they are needed, we will increase the
resources to achieve a target of refor- estation of 30,000 ha a year and will
Improve the institutional mechanisms for financing these reforestation
operations. In land tenure, we are preparing a set of legislative
instruments, the most important of which relate to limitation of
fragmentation, land transfers, and rural leases, which are designed to
complete the legal framework for implementation of our land policy, most
particularly in the rainfed farming zones. In input marketing, we plan to
phase out the fertilizer subsidy over the next five farm years beginning with
1985/86, in parallel with a more active policy of support of producer prices,
particularly for cereals; in addition, the private sector's role in input
distribution (fertilizer, seed, etc.) will be expanded. In cereal marketing,
we propose to enlarge the role of the private sector and the cooperatives in
the implementation of an effective producer-price support przgram, and to that
end, plan in the initial stage, to restore the profitabilitS of marketing of
domestic production.
We have set up an Inter-Ministerial Committee, under the chairman-
ship of the Minister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, to monitor imple-
mentation of the action programs described above. The Committee will meet
every six months to examine the progress of the programs and take any
necessary decisions. It will also be required to prepare two progress
reports, one in December 1985 and the other in May 1986, copies of which will
be sent to you for information.
The Government declares its intention to carry out the adjustment
program set form in this letter and its annexes. Having regard to the
measures that we propose to implement, we would appreciate your favorable
consideration of our request for an adjustment loan to the agriculture sector
to finance importation of the inputs required for execution of the program.
We hope also that the World Bank will support our efforts through other sector
loans.
Please accept, Mr. President, the expression of my high
consideration.
signed by the Minister of Finance



- 68 -
Five-Year Water Charge Recovery Program
(Recovery Rate S) Ia
O.R.M.V.A.  /b           Actual Achievement            Projected Minimum Achievement
1981   1982   1983   1984 /c    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
- Moulouya         56     35      51     50          55      60     70      80     90
- Gharb            23     37      43     40          45      50     60      70     75
- Doukkala        100    100    100    100          100    100    100    100    100
- Haouz            92     15      31     50          55     65      75      85     90
- Tadla            34     43      38     40          55     65      75      85     95
- Souss-Massa      38     36      12     15          35     45      70      80     85
- Loukkos          27     68      82     80          85     85      90      90     95
TOTAL              j_    Z    _ _Z    _AZ              A. J          .-..    .JU    ..2M
/a  Amount actually recovered in the year as a percentage of amount legally
due for recovery in the year, including past arrears.
/b  In two other ORMVAs of Ouarzazate and Tafilalet, a legal basis for
recovery is yet to be developed.
/c  Estimated level.
1362E/p4



ANNEX IV
-  69 -                       A2pendix
Page 1 of 16
1.        The medium-term adjustment program for the agriculture sector aims
to encourage more rapid growth and is based on the following four objectives:
(a) to complete the restructuring of the public investment program; (b) to
enhance the efficiency of the production support services furnished by the
public sector and encourage transfer to the cooperative and private sectors of
those activities for which they are capable of assuming responsibility; (c) to
press forward with the development of agricultural policy and investment
selection analysis and formulation capabilities; and (d) to adjust our price
and incentives policy so as to ensure efficient utilization of our
agricultural resources. These basic objectives are reflected in detailed
action programs in the key subsectors (irrigation, stockraising, research and
extension, fertilizer and seed, reforestation, grain marketing) and in the
area of land policy. These action programs are presented below for each
subsector in turn.
IRRIGATION
2.        Irrigation is a subsector of key importance in the development of
Morocco's agriculture. The priority accorded to this subsector by the
Government is reflected in the substantial share of capital expenditure
appropriations allocated to it under the various economic development plans.
This priority rating has enabled the subsector to play fully the role assigned
to it in resource mobilization, increasing of production, export of
agricultural products, promotion of the services and agroindustries sectors,
job creation, raising of rural incomes, and containment of rural
out-migration. This has been facilitated also by the role played by the
Regional Agricultural Development Offices (ORMVAs) in the expansion and
maintenance of water infrastructures, extension services to farmers, and
application of the institutional measures decreed by the Government, the
cornerstone of which is the 1969 Agricultural Investment Code.
3.        Following this period of expansion -- characterized by, for example,
expansion of the large-scale irrigation zones, putting under cultivation of
the equipped lands and strengthening of the ORMVAs -- the basic objectives
assigned to the subsector since 1981, the starting year of the current Plan,
comprise essentially continued infrastructure development of the zones
commanded by the dams already in operation and consolidation of the gains made
during previous decades in terms of better utilization of the existing
irrigation potential, better recoupment of costs, and greater participation by
the farmers in management of the networks. In addition, in light of the
recent economic situation and the resulting budget constraints, we have
proceeded to restructure the program of public investment in irrigation.
Thus, investment priority has been accorded to completion of the
infrastructure programs already started; at the same time, larger capital
expenditure appropriations than previously have been reserved for development
of the existing small and medium-scale irrigation schemes (PMH). Concerning
recovery of costs, the Government has raised the water charges and adopted
suitable formulas for indexing them, and has taken a series of measures to
improve their collection. As regards participation by the farmers, the
Government has drafted a law governing the establishment and functioning of
irrigaton associations. Pending enactment of this law, de facto user groups
have been set up in certain irrigation zones.



ANNEX IV
- 70 -                      Appendix
Page 2 of 16
4.        With the object of pressing forward with these improvements, the
Government proposes to implement a medium-term (1985-89) action program whose
main goals will be: (a) to maintain the priorities decreed and the
restructuring operations decided on under the investment program; (b) to put
increased emplasis on the programs of rehabilitation and management
improvement of the irrigation zones; (c) to improve the work of the government
services in the subsector, particularly the ORMVAs; (d) to introduce greater
flexibility into the Government's supervision of the ORMVAs; (e) to pursue the
process of improving the water legislation and increasing the collection of
water charges and self-financing of the ORMVAs; (f) to promote progressive
withdrawal of the ORMVAs; and (g) to ensure charging for the commercial
services they provide while ensuring that this does not reduce the incomes of
the farmers affected below a threshold to be prescribed by the Government.
5.        The major reforms to be implemented under this medium-term action
program are summarized below. Those relating to management of major
irrigation zones are defined in a report, prepared with the help of the World
Bank in December 1984, entitled "M6morandum sur les reformes de gestion de la
grande irrigation" (Memorandum on Management Reforms of Large-Scale Irrigation
Schemes):
(a) With regard to the investment programs, as part of the restructuring
process referred to above, priority will be given to the following,
while pursuing execution of the projects already committed:
(i) rehabilitation and management improvement of the large-scale
irrigation systems; (ii) renovation of the existing small and
medium-scale water systems to ensure full utilization of the water
and of the land already under irrigation; (iii) traditional small
and medium-scale networks with a low per-hectare irrigation cost,
and infrastructure development of irrigation zones in low-rainfall
areas, where the return on irrigation investments is generally
higher; and (iv) all development schemes yielding the highest
economic return. In addition, measures will be taken to enable the
OMRVAs to ensure proper management and maintenance of the irrigation
networks, particularly those that include wells and pumping stations.
(b) In the case of improvement of the services of the ORMVAs, the
measures will relate particularly to enhanced priority for planning,
monitoring and evaluation, network management, and extension
services, to decentralization of the services, and to improvement of
management systems and tools (cost accounting, management
information system, data processing, and so on).
(c) With regard to Government supervision of the ORMVAs, the principal
measures will concern: (i) institution of a development
program-contract "contrat-programme de developpement" between one of
the Offices and the Government which, if it pro-ves successful, will
be extended to other Offices; (ii) raising of the maximum amounts of
the order vouchers and contracts signed directly by the directors of
the Offices, with periodical review of these amounts in light of the
Offices' organizational performance; (iii) institution of an



- 71 -                          ANNEX IV
Appendix
Page 3 of 16
annual review of the Offices' accounts by independent auditors; and
(iv) for the operating and capital expenditure budgets, granting of
quarterly globalized subsidies, the total annual amount of which
will be set at the beginning of the fiscal year.
(d) With regard to the collection of water charges and of the debts owed
to the Offices, the Government will extend the setting up of
internal collection units to all of the Offices. These units will
be supported in their work by the Offices' technical committees and
the provincal authorities. To that end each Office will be asked to
draw up an action program for achieving the highest possible
collection rate. Our indicative program of collection of water
charges for the next five years is shown in the appended table.
(e) With regard to water legislation, the principal improvements will
concern the institution of a suitable procedure for automatic
indexing of water charges, for improving collection conditions in
the Charb and for applying the provisions of the Investment Code
relating to the setting of tariffs for and expropriation of water
rights to the Haouz irrigation zones. In addition, regulations will
be drawn up governing tariff-setting for water for non-agricultural
purposes that passes through the facilities managed by the Offices.
(f) With regard to withdrawal by the Government from services necessary
to be provided under the jurisdiction of the public authorities, the
Government will authorize the ORMVAs to transfer the majority of
these services, in stages, to the private or cooperative sectors;
the object is that the Offices will eventually devote their
attention to the performance of their essential tasks of
infrastructure development, network management and extension.
(g) In parallel with this phased withdrawal, the ORMVAs will exercise
close control of their operating costs and will be authorized to
bill the beneficiaries for the cost price of the commercial services
that they continue to provide pending take-over by third parties,
while taking care to see that farm incomes do not fall below an
acceptable threshold.
(h) The cropping patterns assigned for each irrigation zone will be
reviewed to take account more fully of the prevailing price and
market conditions.
6.        These various measures will have a positive impact on the
Governnment's finances. It has been estimated that as a result of these
measures most of the ORMVAs will be in a position, by the end of the action
program, to achieve self-financing of their operations budgets for the
irrigation zones and that, in consequence, the balancing subsidies accorded by
the Government will be appreciably reduced.



ANNEX IV
- 72 -                    Appendi'
Page 4 of 16
LIVESTOCK
7.        Livestock is a major subsector of Morocco's agriculture, accounting
for one-third of its value added and one-sixth of its employment. The
development of cattle-raising would allow Morocco to reduce its imports of
dairy products and increase the domestic supply of beef. The combination of
cereal and fodder crops in the favorable rainfed areas would help to boost
cereal production, which is a priority goal, while the development of
livestock - which is carried on largely by small farmers -- would raise the
incomes and enhance the security of a large part of the rural population.
8.        The principal constraints may be summarized as follows:
(a) The services provided to stockfarmers by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (MARA) could be improved, with respect both to
planning, monitoring and development of the subsector and to
sanitary cover of the livestock and the various genetic improvement
activities, whose impact, though positive, extends to only part of
the herd.
(b) Government intervention on the market for certain livestock feeds,
justified in cases of urgency, is not conducive in normal
circumstances to optimum utilization of resources and discourages
the development of fodder crops.
Sc) Although it has experienced rapid development, milk processing and
marketing is encountering difficulties associated with the seasonal
nature of milk production, poor product diversification and
competition from products available on the international market at
artificially low prices.
(d) While the poultry subsector is exhibiting great dynamism it is
frequently affected by demand instability. Red-meat production is
hampered by the excessively high cost of the feed systems currently
used. Finally, in spite of the modernization efforts accomplished,
organization of the meat market is adversely affected by the
obsolescence of part of the slaughtering network and the inadequacy
of the cold storage facilities.
9.        The recent measures by the Government are aimed to eliminate the
constraints on livestock development. The following examples may be cited:
(a) the enactment of legislation aimed at privatizing the practice of
veterinary medicine and the execution of prophylactic measures; (b) the
imposition, since 1983, of a slaughtering s6rcharge, collected in the
controlled slaughterhouses, which is being used to strengthen certain
activities of the Livestock Directorate; (c) the increases in the prices of
bran (90Z) and beet pulp (55%) during the last two agricultural seasons; (d)
the selective withdrawal of the Livestock Directorate from activities of
direct investment in poultry-farming; (e) the preparation of a National Fodder



- 73                  ~~~~~ANNEX IV
ApPendix
Page 5 of 16
Plan, in collaboration with FAO; (f) the revision in December 1984 of mllk
producer prices to widen the seasonal price differential; (g) the
establishment of a program to make local butter and powder production
competitive and offer the consumer a range of milk of different fat content;
and finally, (h) the establishment of a master plan for slaughterhouses and
cold storage facilities.
10.       In the medium run the Government is pursuing the following goals:
(a) to strengthen the subsector's economic analysis capability, having
regard to the rapid development of livestock and the growing
diversity of the activities to be carried out, so as to improve its
monitoring and refine its policy formulation and investment
selection performance;
(b) to press forward with the development of the Moroccan agro-food
industry, particularly the dairy products industry, by enabling it
to resolve economically the problem of the seasonal nature of supply;
(c)  to continue and step up the process of Government withdrawal from
the areas of veterinary medicine, prophylactic measures, artificial
insemination and poultry farming;
(d) to improve the country's fodder supply through better utilization of
agroindustrial byproducts and by encouraging the development of
fodder crops; and
(e) to improve the efficiency of pasture activities.
11.       To achieve the above goals the Government proposes to undertake a
series of reforms which can be stummrized as follows:
(a)  Capital and operating expenditures.  Economic studies will be
performed on the action programs with a view to the most effective
possible utilization of resources, particularly in the areas of
animal health (development of private veterinary medicine), genetic
improvement of the cattle herd by promoting the establishment of
breeding farms for the reproduction of high-quality cattle, and
animal nutrition (exploitation of agroindustrial byproducts of low
food value).
(b) Organization and management of the sector. The Government will
pursue its program of withdrawal from direct provision of services
and direct management of productive operations and farms, except for
livestock units in the nature of basic development infrastructure
(propagation of certain genetic material, selection stations). As a
pilot operation, we propose experimentally to transfer artificial
insemination and certain veterinary activities to the private or



ANNEX IV
- 74 -                       Appendix
Page 6 of 16
cooperative sectors. The manpower and funds freed in this way can
be used to enhance the development of planning, contractual
production systems and dissemination of new technologie8.
(c) Prices and incentives. Special attention will be devoted to:
(i) widening the seasonal differentials in milk producer prices,
with a view to encouraging greater regularity of production over the
course of the year; (ii) the goal of Morocco's milk industry to
remain economically competitive and to diversify the nature, quality
and price of marketed milk products; and (iii) deregulation of the
markets for certain livestock feeds (beet pulp and wheat bran) by
December 1987.
AGRONOMIC RESEARCH
12.       The National Institute for Agronomic Research (Institut National de
la Recherche Agronomique -- INRA) is fully specialized in the field of
research and possesses a countrywide network of research stations. Other
agencies that conduct research, though not as their primary activity, include
the Hassan II Agronomic and Veterinary Institute (Institut Agronomique et
Veterinaire Hassan II -- INAV), for which research is an essential complement
to its teaching work. In parallel with these two agencies, applied research
on specific topics is done by other governmental agencies (the ORMVAs, etc.)
and private bodies. However, on the basis of its activities and its structure
the INRA is thus at the base of all development of research in the agriculture
sector.
13.       In light of experience to date we have concluded that the principal
constraints on our agronomic research are the following:
(a) inadequate organic and functional liaison between the various
agencies for which research is not the primary activity and the
INRA, which should provide overall coordination;
(b) weak cooperation in the circulation of information between, on the
one hand, ENRA and the agricultural development agencies and, on the
other, the farmers;
(c) inadequate financial resources and relative imbalance between
capital-expenditure, operating-expense and personnel appropriations;
(d) the unsuitability of our present structures for the conduct of
research programs owing to centralized administrative management and
dispersal of the resources at the level of the activities and of the
physical research infrastructures;
(e) the lack, until recently, of a precise definition of agronomic
research priorities;



ANNEX IV
-75 -                       ApRendix
Page 7 of 16
(f) the difficulty of processing the data and of summarizing all the
research findings and external information so as to make them
available to the research personnel.
14.       To alleviate the above deficiencies, MARA has already taken a number
of measures designed to strengthen and reorganize the INRA, whose function is
to conduct agricultural research and coordinate the activities of the other
agencies. Thus, the law of April 8, 1981 confers on INRA the status of a
public establishment and the management autonomy it must have to rationalize
its work. In parallel, a new personnel statute was approved on January 2,
1985, making it possible to improve the remuneration of the research personnel
and integrate them into the scientific stream and thereby avoid staff
turnover. These statutory reforms having been implemented, it is now possible
to envisage the recrganization of scientific activities for which
recommendations were presented by ISNAR in 1984.
15.       The new research development policy, which is aimed at coordinating
research work done in Morocco, developing experimentation capacity and
improving the dissemination of research findings, is based on the following
essential goals:
(a) clarification of research policy through the organization of
research and development seminars to examine the "new programs"
drawn up using the program-by-objective method, in light of the
Government's development priorities. These programs would be either
multidisciplinary units distributed by product or production system
or basic programs geared to a single discipline in support of
research by objective;
(b)  improvement of the dissemination of new techniques through closer
contacts between farm-level users, e'c.ension centers and ORMVAs;
(c) redeployment of resources through a substantial reduction in the
number of research stations (from 65 to 21) and withdrawal from
participation in the production of basic seed (which will be
completed in 1988);
(d) establishment of research agreements with the development agencies
(DPA, projects, OMRVAs) in order to develop applied research and
ensure its coordination at the national level.
16.       To ensure the accomplishment of these goals, we plan (a) to set up
an information division within INRA to be responsible for the Institute's
documentation and for dissemination of research results; (b) to computerize
financial, administrative and scientifIc management and introduce cost
accounting; (c) to strengthen the 21 research stations that will be retained;
and (d) to assign the necessary additional personnel to strengthen the
information division and the stations (for specific programs). These measures
should have a substantial impact on research performance. They can also be



-76 --                   ANNEX IV
Appendix
Page 8 of 16
expected to produce a technology more in line with farm-level needs and
thereby to make an important contribution to Morocco's agricultural
development. It is, however, foreseeable that external financing will have to
be sought for installation of the new system.
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
17.       In spite of the efforts accomplished, the efficiency of the
extension service -- which is based on a network of 117 Work Centers (Centres
de Travaux - CTs) and 140 Development Centers (Centres de Mise en Valeur -
CHVs) -- has remained limited. There are many reasons for this, of which the
principal ones fall into the following categories:
(a) School and university training: At the present time no true basic
or specialized training in extension techniques is offered in the
schools of agriculture, either at the national or the regional level;
(b) Structures and activities: The basic farm-level units (the CTs and
a few CMVs) do not encompass the entire range of MARA's activities,
for example livestock, crop protection, water use, etc. At the
provincal level, extension is simply one small office among many
others, the extension agents do not receive adequate technical
support and supervision of them is inadequate. The provision of
input services is the predominant activity, accounting for a large
part of the work program.
(c)  Personnel qualifications:  The staff of the field units frequently
lack the qualifications that an extension agent needs, so that the
agent's activities are limited zo the provision of input services.
(d) Resources: The extension agents, often accommodated far from the
farmers and lacking equipment and means of transportation, are able
neither to perform their extension work adequately nor to conduct
the necessary demonstrations for a clear understanding of the
extension messages.
18.       Aware of the many problems in the way of reorganizing extension,
improving the technical qualifications of the personnel and disseminating
credible and easily usable extension messages, in 1982 MARA embarked on
reorganization of the extension service. A restructuring program has been
developed to be applied to 28 pilot aTs. At these CTs it has been decided to
separate the services and extension funct-ions so as to allow the extension
agents henceforth to devote their full attention to extension in the strict
sense. Each pilot CT has prepared a study of its area, defined homogeneous
zones, each covered by an extension agent, and drawn up training and visiting
schedules. To prepare for expansion of this new system to the whole of the
country, an agricultural extension master plan is now being prepared and
should be ready by the beginning of 1986.



ANNEX IV
APPendix
Page 9 of 16
19.       MARA's medium-term goal is to implement this plan, which will regard
the farm as an entity whose management is indivisible, in six years. This
reform will apply to both rainfed and irrigated farming, in which the same
methods will be applied. It will therefore involve:
(a) progressive installation of this new system, beginning with a
lowest-cost organizational reform via a pilot program in a small
number of CTs;
(b) study of ways of improving and strengthening the extension
administration structures, from the central level to the base units
(CTs/CMVs), to adapt them to the new system;
(c)  clear definition of role and relationships between the various
technical divisions, extension and research, and improvement of
cooperation between research and extension to promote a two-way flow
of informat on; technologies suited to rainfed and to irrigated
farming already exist for some zones and only need to be refined to
adapt them to specific local conditions;
(d) integration into the extension activities of all farming practices,
particularly livestock and water management, to fit the extension
agents to deal with the whole of a farm's problems; revision of
basic and refresher training courses for extension agents,
regardless of their origin, to encompass all farming techniques; and
installation in the DPAs and the ORMVAs of teams of specialists who
will furnish the extension agents with technical support.
(e) review of the basic and refresher study curricula in higher
education and regional education establishments to enable field
staff to acquire general extension training and afford them an
opportunity to specialize in that discipline.
20.       To ensure successful completion of the extension service reform and
to limit its cost, having regard to the current budgetary constraints, the
Government proposes to apply the following investment priorities:
(a) to begin immediately to seek financing for the operating costs of
the 28 pilot Work Centers and for the budget appropriations of the
30 additional agronomists to be assigned to the CTs/CMVs in 1986 and
a further 30 a year thereafter, to complete the program by 1990;
(b) to improve the functioning and efficiency of the existing CTs/CMVs,
giving expenditure priority to means of transportation and operating
expenses;
(c)  to cease the purchase of new farm machinery a;.d the costly farm
mechanization and input distribution services, in accordance with
the criteria already established; the resulting savings could be
used to finance other priority extension activities.



ANNEX IV
- 78 -                        Appendix
Page 10 of 16
21.       The institution of the new extension system is expected to have a
substantial impact on agricultural development by making the extension service
more efficient. To expedite the installation of this new structure and extend
the extension activities to areas not so far reached, we propose to seek
sources of external financing to help speed up the accomplishment of these
objectives.
REFORESTATION
22.       Forestry is one of the priority areas of Morocco's agricultural
economy, and the substantial efforts already deployed in it during the current
decade will be stepped up and expanded. Morocco's forests constitute an
element of natural protection and equilibrium, covering 5.2 million hectares
and playing a decisive role in erosion control in many watersheds. They also,
howeter, play an essential economic role, producing more than a million cubic
meters of wood a year, contributing to national self-sufficiency in fodder
(supplying more than 10% of Morocco's needs), and generating more than 16
million days of work annually.
23.       Nevertheless, serious imbalances are becoming apparent:
(a) domestic production covers a decreasing share of lumber and industrial
wood needs, and the difference is met by imports that have doubled in volume
and value over the last twenty years, to the point that they now rank second,
after wheat, among agricultural imports; (b) erosion damage (loss of arable
land and silting up of dams) is becoming increasingly severe: sediment
accumulated behind dams represents by itself more than 60 million cubic meters
a year, i.e. the equivalent of 6,000 hectares of irrigated land lost to
reservoirs; and (c) the national forest cover is being steadily reduced, at a
rate of some 20,000 hectares a year.
24.       In an effort to remedy this situation, a National Reforestation Plan
was adopted in 1970 which provided for the planting of 660,000 ha of forest by
the year 2000. During the first 15 years of the Plan it has been possible to
reforest only one-half the area planned. This delay in implementing the goals
of the National Reforestation Plan is attributable to, in particular, the
unsuitability of the present method of financing, which leads to disparity
between the budgetary calendar (effective disbursement of appropriations) and
the biological calendar (planting times).
2.5.      Consequently, in the years ahead our forestry policy will focus on
the priority goal of rehabilitating the national forest patrimony through
stepped-up reforestation. To facilitate implementation of this policy and
ensure its multiannual continuity in a climate of budget austerity, we plan to
reorient the present reforestation financing system toward increased
utilization of the National Forestry Fund (Fonds National Forestier -- FNF), a
special Treasury account. Enlarging and strengthening of the FNF's role in
Morocco's reforestation policy will meet the following two essential needs:
(a) guarantee of stable resources, free from cyclical hazards, to the benefit
of a long-term investment program, and (b) greater flexibility in implementing
the reforestation programs.



ANNEX IV
79                       Appendix
Page 11 of 16
26.      To this end the Government intends to implement the following
measures: (a) introduction of a parafiscal tax on importcd wood products, and
(b) a contribution by the State budget to the FNF throughout the reforestation
program, to provide the necessary supplemental funding for achievement of the
annual reforestation poals.
27.      The amount of this tax, which we plan to introduce during FY86,
would be 5S on imports of wood and derivative wood products (local wood is
already subject to a 101 levy on auction sales). This tax would allow us to
finance the reforestation of an additional 10-12,000 ha a year; together with
the Government budget resources currently available, this will enable us to
achieve the goal set by the National Reforestation Plan.
28.      In addition, we propose to emphasize in the coming years the
diffusion of alternative energy sources in rural areas to try to reduce the
pressure exerted on our forests by excessive cutting of firewood, together
with development of the use of biogas in agriculture.
MARKETING OF INPUTS
29.      Our policy with respect to marketing of the inputs required by
agriculture, most particularly fertilizer and selected seed, will be based on
the following objectives:
(a) jiprovement of the distribution systems to encourage greater
consumption and to ensure that the products will be available in the
quantity and at the time they are needed, close to the site of
utilization;
(b) encouragement of active participation in the distribution circuits
by the private and cooperative sectors and commensurate adjustment
of the role of the public sector, with the latter focusing on the
regulation and supervision of markets; and
(c) phasing out of input subsidies while maintaining the profitability
of crop production by proper monitoring of agricultural
input/product price relationships.
30.      These basic principles of our policy apply in particular to
fertilizer distribution, an area in which the Government has recently taken a
number of measures. These include, -.n particular:
(a) the revision in 1983 of the formula used to calculate distribution
margins, which has restored the profitability of this activity;
(b) the adoption of more flexible and efficient procedures for
periodical adjustment of these margins, and systematic annual
implementation of them (September 1983, October 1984);



80 -               ~~~~ANNEX IV
AppendiX
Page 12 of 16
(c)  the decision to involve private companies closely in the preparation
of Morocco's fertilizer procurement programs and timetables, with
respect both to imports and to domestic distribution;
(d) an increase of 35Z in the price of fertilizer in September 1983; and
(e) the granting of a special bonus for overstocking (12 of the
reference price), to encourage and remunerate the establishment of
buffer stocks by the companies.
31.       During the coming years we plan to pursue our policy along the same
broad lines. This will be implemented through the phased adoption of various
measures supplementing those put into effect recently. In particular, we
propose:
(a) progressively to withdraw the public company FERTIMA from direct
sales in the work centers (CTs) and Agricultural Development Centers
(CMVs) in the areas of large-scale consumption, where the
establishment of the private sector and competition suffice to make
governmental selling points no longer necessary;
(b) to phase out the unit subsidy on fertilizer over the next five farm
years by gradually adjusting the reference price; at the same time,
we propose to undertake a study of the interannual stabilization
system, which will have to be used after the subsidy is eliminated
to minimize the effect of world market price fluctuations on the
domestic price during a given farm year;
(c) following elimination of the subsidy, when the level of consumption
anid the general situation with respect to security of supply so
permit, it would be possible to consider more complete deregulation
of the distribution system; this could be reflected in abandonment
of the system of authorized wholesale margins and control of retail
prices and also in deregulation of imports, coupled with an
obligation to maintain minimum safety stocks for all participants in
the circuit.
32.       WitL. regard to selected grain seed, currently subject to
governmental control at the production and marketing stages, our policy will
be geared to the broad objectives already referred to. In particular, we
propose to implement the following series of measures during the coming years:
(a) continued gradual reduction of the unit subsidy to users, with the
aim of limiting the total subsidy allocations to the level of 1984
budget appropriations;
(b) more flexible deployment of the possible subsidy, taking intL
account the impact of weather conditions on demand and therefo-e on
prices, so as to avoid putting selected seed on the market at prices
below those of ordinary grains;



ANNEX IV
- 81 -                      ApDendix
Page 13 of 16
(c) institution of a more flexible producer price policy, so as to
sustain the incentives to deliver to the storage/treatment agency
(assurance of an adequate margin above the price of ordinary grains
in poor harvest years);
(d) relaxation of the requirements imposed on private producers of
selected seed, in the form of a lower minimum size for participation
in seed plots and less restrictive requirements with respect to
treatment or harvesting equipment, so as to attract a larger number
of potential producers and respond more appropriately to demand than
at present; and
(e) payment of royalties to INRA on sales of selected seed varieties to
be developed by it.
LAND TENURE POLICY
33.       In the area of agricultural land tenure, our medium-range policy is
geared to the following main goals:
(a) widening of our knowledge of agricultural land tenure factors
through establishment of the National Cadastre, land mapping and
valuation, processing of statistical data, and intensified
development of collective lands;
(b) promotion of the progressive establishment of economically viable
production units, particularly in the rainfed areas, through plot
consolidation and definition of viability thresholds, which will
serve to channel land tenure changes toward raising farms to that
desirable size or above;
Cc) enhancement of the security of occupancy of leased lands by setting
up a system of rural leases that systematizes lessor-lessee
relationships so as to guarantee duration of tenure and encourage
capital expenditure on such lands.
34.       We already have at our disposal a number of instruments through
which to implement our land tenure policy. These include, in particular, the
Agricultural Investment Code (Code des Investissements Agricoles), which
provides for certain incentives to rational development of lands in irrigation
zones (control of fragmentation, land transfers, access to credit, treatment
of collective lands); the National Cadastre and Land Tenure Register
(Immatriculation Fonciere); the programs of distribution of certain State
domain lands to individual farmers, State companies or Agrarian Reform
cooperatives; and finally, land consolidation programs, until recently
concentrated mainly in the irrigation zones. However, our existing land
tenure legislation and machinery were designed for irrigation zones and
essentially apply only to them.



ANNEX IV
- 82 -                     Appendix
Page 14 of 16
35.       Havlng regard, therefore, to our priority objective of tilting the
balance of governmental activities more toward the rainfed areas, we plan to
gear our land tenure policy more explicitly to encouraging the establishment
and preservation of economically viable farms in the rainfed sector. We
therefore propose to put the emphasis on:
(a) accelerated preparation of the National Cadastre and the Land Tenure
Register in the rainfed areas, and improved coordination between
these two operations, which are to form the basis for the design of
land-development incentives and for the establishment of land titles
giving access to credit;
(b) establishment of suitable legislative machinery applicable in the
rainfed sector; this would in large measure extend to it the
provisions that already apply to the irrigated sector and would
facilitate more effective action by the Government in rural
development activities in rainfed areas; and
(c) adoption of legislation on rural land leases, with the object of
improving the stability of land tensure for the farmers and
encouraging development of and investment in leased rainfed lands.
36.       Measures important to the implementation of these priorities have
already been initiated: an Inter-Ministerial Commission (Interior, Finance,
Planning, Justice, and Agriculture) has completed examination of the draft
laws and regulations prepared by MARA as the basis for our land tenure policy
in the rainfed areas.
37.       We expect to initiate the procedures for approval of these draft
instruments in the second half of 1985.
38.       Still within the framework of our overall land tenure policy, but
looking to the longer term, we are studying the suitability of providing
ourselves with supplemental instruments for steering land tenure changes, such
as the institution of agricultural land zoning or the setting up of an
agricultural Land tenure agency, and plan to complete the demarcation of
Morocco's collective lands.
39.       As soon as the legislative apparatus governing rainfed land tenure
is in place, we plan to undertake large-scale development operations in that
sector. These will include consolidation programs in rainfed regions where
the productivity potential that can be mobilized through grouping of plots and
possible enlargement of farms make such operations very efficient economically.
CEREAL MARKETING
40.       The Government's basic objectives in this area continue to be the
following: (a) to maintain remunerative producer prices; (b) to ensure



ANNEX IV
ADDendix
Page 15 of 16
stability of the cereals market and supply to the population, having regard to
Morocco's position as a net importer; and (c) to maintain adequate safety
stocks. However, we want to improve the overall efficiency of the marketing
system, whose dynamism and reliability are of the utmost importance to
successful implementation of our policy of encouraging domestic cereal
production, in parallel with continued work on clearing up the compensation
payments situation (flour subsidy), which remains a major problem.
41.       Thus, we envisage the possibility of deregulating the operations of
the domestic official marketing system to the extent needed to make the system
simultaneously more competitive and attractive to commercial entrepreneurs and
less costly to the Government. Measures that could be implemented in the
medium term, following detailed study, include: (a) application of the
official intervention price by ONICL to soft wheat deliveries to flour mills,
this price being sufficiently remunerative to cover collection and storage
costs and to attract new commercial entrepreneurs into the business; (b)
opening up the activity of collection among the farms and the flour mills as
widely as possible to all interested entrepreneurs, so as to maintain adequate
competition within the system, to the benefit of the producers (who will
continue to be informed by the Government of indicative producer prices for
each farm year); (c) application of an intervention price varying according to
the month so as to encourage deferred deliveries and better distribution of
stocks between the production and milling locations; (d) encouragement of the
setting up of true farm-level cooperatives offering the farmers an alternative
marketing circuit; (e) converting the secondary centers of the SCAM/CMAs into
unions of these local cooperatives, and the present utilization centers into
regional cooperatives acting as wholesalers for the cooperative circuit; and
(f) freeing the cooperatives to act like any private entrepreneur on the
market for other cereals.
42.       With regard to the soft-wheat importation system, we envisage the
possibility of introducing the following measures (in conjunction with the
changes in the domestic circuit described above): (a) allocation to the flour
mills of imported wheat quotas based on the quantities collected on the
domestic market (to encourage domestic procurement), under overall supervision
by ONICL, which remains the Government's intervention and regulation
instrument in the sector; (b) enhancement of import competition by encouraging
the flour mills to import directly, in the same way as the present private
entrepreneurs and the SCAMs union; and (c) requiring all importers to maintain
buffer stocks proportionate to their share of the market, the cost of which
would have to be taken into account by the importer when submitting his bid to
ONICL. Both domestic and imported wheat would be bought by the flour mills at
the same price, and any import-price difference would be paid to or by the
Government as at the present time. In the same way, so long as the flour
subsidy continues it will be paid by the Government to the flour mills as at
present, on the basis of milling yields and flour sales. Having regard to the
importance that will accrue in the new system to the commercial behavior of
the flour mills, very special care will be taken to ensure speedy payment of
the compensation to them.



Annex IV
- 84 -                             Appendix
Page 16 of 16
43.       All these possible reforms of the official domestic and inmport food
procurement will be further studied, in greater depth, prior to their possible
implementation. Meanwhile, we plan to implement a number of measures aimed at
improving the working of the present system: (a) review of the storage and
handling margins to restore them to levels adequate to remunerate the service
provided; (b) encouragement of on-farm storage and of deferred sales, through
the institution of pilot storage contracts with certain producers;
(c) conversion of certain SCAM collection points into utilization centers,
thereby bringing the farmer closer to the points of purchase of the official
circuit at the fixed prices and reducing the farm-to-utilization center
transportation costs deductible from these prices; (d) continuation of the
process of catching up on cereal producer prices initiated this year, prices
being maintained at an adequate level, taking into account the proposed input
cost adjustments, for the coming farm year, and a new cereal market and price
methodology being devised and put into effect, in the medium term, for future
farm years; and (e) installation in ONICL and MARA of units for monitoring the
cereal production/consumption balance, by province, annual marketing flows,
and price movements on local markets.
2449e



1129Ep.16                                                                        KCC
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTNEr LOAN
Timetable for Adlustnmnt HELIUrM
Public Invrstnent Proaram
Likely T1 _tahla 
inarnkmt                 Recent Actions Taken  Medium-Term Adiustnmnt
Qbieetj ves              by Goverrment          Fraoram                    Before Neuatiations           Durina 19. 5             uw rI  1gi          In Hdtium-Term
Improve contribution   Greater  mphasis of .Pursue further re-             Hinimnm allocation        Joint review of           Review of actual   Strengthening of
of public investLmnt   public investment        structuring of publiC    of 12X to agricul-          Investmnt Program         expenditure         the investment
program to agricul-    on rainfed agricul-   investment In agricul-   ture in the 1985               and Priorities (1986-   patterns in 1985   plaming and
tural growth.           tural development,    ture by restricting          Investment Budget.        for the sector.           to identify con-   budgeting process
forestry, small-       new investments and        Ensure specified                                    straints In         and structural
scale irrigation,      giving priority in         minimu  allocations                                 absorptive caa-   reform of the
and livestock,         financial allocations    to key subsectors                                     city and new        budgeting syst-m.
Postponement or        In the 1985 and 1986       in the 1985 Invest-                                 tmplinntation       Oevelogent of
cancellation of low   Investment Budgets to    ment Budget for                                        _ chbls .            specific metho-
priority Invest-       projects and opera-        Agriculture.                                                            dology for invest-
ments identified        tions which have          Adequate alloca-                                    Joint Rview          ment programing
during the             acceptable ERRs above    tions to priority                                     of Investment        In agriculture
Plan review and the   the opportunity cost        projects in each                                    Progrm A Prio-    (subsectoral
1984 Public Invest-   of capital and meeting   subsector in the                                       ritles (19B7)       criteria) and
ment Review, re-        following criteria         subsector in the                                                        evaluation of cost
flected in the re-  (a) due for completion         1985 Investment                                                        effectirmenss of
structuring of the        FY86;                   Budget for Agri-                                                         support services.
1983 and 1984        (b) aimed at rehabilita-   culture                                                                 . Setting-uP of
Investment Budgets.      tion/modernization;                                                                               institutional
(c) generating low net                                                                               ichanise  to       co
recurrent expendi-                                                                               ensur  adequste   en
tures;                                                                                           fuding of
(d) having a quick pro-                                                                              essential non-wse
duction and foreign                                                                              recurrent expendW-
exchange earnings/                                                                               tures (including
savings impact;                                                                                 m_intenance of
(e) high private sector                                                                              essential public
employint creation;                                                                             infrastructure).
(f) benefitting from
external financing.
Maintain in 1935 and
during the next-Plan
overall priority to
agriculture in Public
Iniestent Programs
and relative priority
among and within sub-
sectors as agreed.
Guarantee timely re-
lease of funds to sup-
port the rationalized
Investment Progrm.
aI



1129E, Page 17                                                                uBc
A*DC1TCLTURAL  ECenR ADJULMnfjTIT LOA
Timtabla for AzLiustm, Tt ianurab
auin  lment             Reen  Aetlonu   Taken  Hedium-Term Adiuntment
abigetivns              by Gavernmnt            Proaram                    eafore Meaotiatiofi        Ak:rin 19a5             Durisn 19I               ajimim
Build-up a sector      Technical assis-         Develop a perwanent   Complete reyiew of                                . Cplete intermnnis-   Complete follow-
planning and policy   tance and material        capability in the      objectives8 role and                               terial review of the   up study of thu
analysis capability.  support being pro-        Ministry to:           expected output of                                 Prices L Incentives    priority refonm
improve investment    vided to the Plan-   (a) carry out analysis  OPAE.                                                  Study and present       under a contract
selection criteria.   ning and Economic           for setting trade                                                       to Bank priority        with the new
Im* rove Honitoring    Affairs Directorate        and production                                                          policy reform to        parastatal.
and Evaluation         (OPAE) in the              policies;                                                               be studied during    . Undertake HE L
capacity of MARA.      Ministry of            (b) monitor and                                                             FYn UOK an wi*
Agriculture by FAO        review annually                                                        . Staff Trmining          f1n nced projects
and USAID.                cost price re-                                                           Progr    for HAM        and particularly
lationships                                                             staff in econic         the emaluation
Start with Bank           and producer                                                             analysis. policy        of the new
and USAID assis-          Floor price                                                              nlysis and inmest-   extens1in systm;
tance of a Pricing        determination;                                                          ment plaming and         prepare draft
and Incentives        (c) review private                                                           Monitoring and          PCRS.
Study.                    investment In-                                                           Evaluation to be
centives and                                                            launched.
public investment                                                     . Special training
policies;                                                               program in Moni-
(d) undertake sector                                                        torins and Eval-
modelling and                                                           uation for the staff
coordinate prepa-                                                       of HE & iK of OPAE.
ration of Develop-                                                      Submit Pries *&
ment Plans.                                                             Incentives Study                        0c
to Interainisterial
Cc ission for
review.



1129E, Page 18
AGIRCULTURL SQCThR ADMUSTHENT LOM
Timetable for Adlu3tmnt Neasures
Irrimation Sub-LAetor
Likely T1etable
Govgrnmnnt              Recent Actions Taken  Mediunr-Term AdluStMnt
QbiastSv.s              by GovenrInt            ProBraIm                  Bfore MoedOfttZIN os          DurinimM               MwirmtISM nu.b  Xa1
Enhance operational    Discussion of          , Implementation of         Issuance of inter-        Preparation by each      Introduce miniam   Charge I  for
effectiveness of the   Government on a          priority reforms In       ministerial decision    office of a revised        fl distribution      valuef cr cxl
Regional Agricultu-    Memorandun prepared   the structure, organi-   (warrlti 1nterminis-    structure, staff               mrgin for Input    work supervised
ral Development         by the Bank indi-       zation and role of the   terieln ) providing        training progrm and    supply.                by OUAs.
Authorities (ORMVAs)   eating  the speci-    ORHVAs and preparation   for revised procedu-    Introduction of new            Signing of the       Review .nd Eval-
by introducing          fic measures to be    of a plan for greater    res In the admini-           MIS/cost accounting      first Contract       uate the systm
adjustments in their   taken to achieve         self-financing their      strative and finan-       program.                 de Progr_            of Contract de
role and structure      these objectives,       operating budget.         cial control of the       Develop a program      . 20S increase of      Progro  before
and granting then                               Priority areas for        ORHVAs by the             for each office for      overall collection  extending to
greater financial                               action under ASL          Goverrtent.               commercial activities   rate of water         other offices.
and managerial                                  include:                  Develop a 5 year          It can trwnfer and       charges In 195    . Transfer live-
autonomw.                                     (a) streamlining of         water charge              others it can charge    over 19U4 to          stock services
procedures and          collection program,      for.                      reach about 57f      to cooperatives.
mechanisms re-                                    Preparation of the       of dues.           .   ach overall
garding the ad-                                   Draft Contract de                             water charge
ministrative.                                     Program  for one                              collection rate
technical and                                    Office.                                        of 91X by 1989.
financial control                                Develop a progrm  for                        . Limit budgetary
of ORHVAs:                                        each office to                                support to
(b) Gradual withdrawal                                improve water charge                          Offices for
fron con.ercial                                   collection includint                          irrigation acti-
activities (mecha-                               now staff for water                            vity to ON 125 N
nization. input                                   charse collection                             by 1990 (costant
supply) and charging                             units.                                         19U4 prices).
at real cost of                                                                               . Achieve financial
,ncourage Improved      Enactmnt of a law         services still to                                                                               viability In at   C
operation and main-    providing for reco-        be provided.                                                                                     lot 4 Offies. 
tenance of Irriga-      very through (a)    (c) Signature of                                                                                                 .
tion infrastructure    water charges of           development con-
through increased       100l   of OLCI costs      tracts ("contracts
cost recovery           and 10  of invest-       prograames") bet-
levels.                 nent costs and (b)       ween the Govt. A
through a better-        the ORHVAs.
ment levy of up        Consolidate and ex-
to 302 of invest-      pand recent progress
ment costs.            towards financial
100  increase in       autonomy for water
level of water         distribution activi-
charges over           ties by:
1960-I3.             (a) Adopting simple
Nationwide indexa-       procedures for
tion formula for         the annual adjust-
adjustment of water      ment of water char-
Indexation of pun-       ges through applica-
ping charges direc-      tion of the nation-
tly to energy costs      wide indexation
(160% increase           fonnula.
since 1960).         (b) Improving the col-
Indexation of            lection rates of
betterment levies        of water charges In
to actual Invest-        the various OlHVAs.
ment costs.



1129E, Page 19                                                                  OCCO
ARDTCIJLTURAL SECTO AD.UsTnMIT LOAM
TimtAkhe far Ad-iustmnt Massuras
A.scareh amd Extnsion
Likeyv Tmtabtsm
Dovr at                 Rerent Actions Taken  Mediua-Term Adiustant
biasu                   by Governnt             Proar                      Beafore Negottations         Ourina  IcSS            >urinm 16     .iu
Reorgenize and         Enactmnt of a law    . Reorganisation of INRA's                                                  . Deelopent of
strengthen the         in April 1981 sup-       structure and activi-                                                     research 'conven-
National Agri-         plemnted by an           ties, Including:                                                          tions' betwmn lIA
cultural Research    i-lemuntation           (a) definition of national                                                  and other agencies
System to support       '-_ree in March           research priorities                                                     In line with new
extension service      .382 creating INRA         for next 5 years;                                                       priorities.
with efficient         and giving it the    (bt dnactment of instruc-
location specific      mandate to organize        tions defining INIRA's
cropping patterns      coordinate and             new organigra;
and responses to       execute all agri-    (c) closing down of half
specific problems.    cultural researefi.         of the stations with    Formliae selection . Copletion of the   . Actual closing              .  lmination of
Increase INRA's                                  regrouping of staff       of the field          first draft of new       dam of selected         sed produetion
effectiveness in                                  on fewer locations;      research stations    research priorities.   research statios           activities (mc-
executing priority                           (d) implementation of the   and comercial seed                               and part of cm-         cludIng mther
research.                                         program for research    production activi-                              _rcial seed pro-        seed) of  mRA.
by objectives;           ties to be closed                              duction activi-
(e) full transfer to other  down.                                           ties of liNM for                          0
Study by ISNAR on         asencies of INRA's        Formal approval of                             cereal seeds.                             o
INRA's structure          cormmrcial seed pro-    new organizational                              Shift in research        Full equiipnt   I
and activities            duction activities for  structure for INRA                               efforts. with           for the reduced
(in consultation          the G4 generation,        with job descrip-                             existing resowuces,    ,.e r of
with Bank).               objectives.               tions by key posi-                             towards priority        rsearch statloiw
Financial autonomy      Imple  entation of the      tions.                                        topics.                  and additional
granted and staff       new extension system                                                                               rescures for
stature and salary      based on T&V methodology                                                                           research on
increased.              in about 20 to 30 zones                                                                            priority topics.
(C.T.) with:                                                              Evaluation of the
(a) complete separation                                                     pilot extens1in
of field level exten-                                                   proram In 2Z  CTs.
Introduce the trai-   Completion of an            sion work from all       Approval and funding                         . Phased expansion
ning and Visit Sys-   internal study for          other activities In      of an operating                                of the Tnv system
tem of extension       the impletwntation         the CTs;                 & finaneing-plan                               to the entire
nationwide.            of a new extension   (b) designation of a head   to Implenent new                                  country; Phse nI
system based on           of extension in each    extension system in                             being low cost
Thv methods.              CT;                       about 20-30 zones.                             approache  with-
Start implementa-    (c) establistuent of sub-                                                    out recruiting
tton of the new           ject matter specialist                                                  additional staff.
extension system          at the provincial
in Bank financed          level;
agricultural deve-   (d) phasing out of non-                            . Establish in-service . Clete Extension   . Strenthen the
loprent projects.         extension related                               training prgras.        Master Plan.             structure of MM
services with discon-                                                   for extens1in           extension
Start preparation         tinuing farm mechani- . Stop subsidy of                                . Close doun              activities.
of a Master               zation services:          farm mechanization                            Tractor Serviees       . Total closing
Plan.                 Ce) introduction of new       services.           . Add 3rd year train-    of 30 CTS                 dom of tractor
training program for                            ing in extension at  . Develop progras for   services.
extension workers in                           agricultural col-        closer linkage be-   . Upgrade _inuer sb
agricultural colleges.                          leges.                  tween IhRA and ex-      of CTs to  eqngi-   
tension.                near' levels.       x



1129E, Page 20                                                                  OROCCD
AGRICULTURAL S9CTQR ADJU5THENT LOAN
Timetable for Adiustment meacureS
LivStock
Likely Turntable
Goverrmnt                Recent Actions Taken   Medium-Tern Adiust.ent
Qbimrltys                by rGnovermnt           Prarair                   before Neautiations             Durina l.ss         Durinr la.i            in Mediu-TeE
Improve the effi-       Possibility of           Carry out health           Select 20 pilot zones                         Finalize private      . Expand the private
ciency of animal        authorizing private    control and routine          and prepare operating                         veterinary service      animal health
health and breeding    veterinarians to          health services            terms and conditions                          arrangemonts in 20      service to all
services provided       provide compulsory       through private            and draft contracts.                          zones.                  irrigated and high
to stock raisers.       health control and       veterinarians.             Invitation of con-                                                    rainfall areas.
other services in                                   tracts with privato
pilot areas is                                     veterinarians in 20
being considered.                                  zones.
Closing down or         Build up private           Develop term5 and        . Select 20          Transfer to 20           Develop a proegr
leasing to coops        sector and cooPs,          conditions of Govern-    zones for            scheduled farmer         for transferring
of all hatcheries.      management of              ment withdrawal and        transfer of        coops of Al services,  the natural
and poultry raising    artificial insem-           transfer of Al             Al service,        breeding centers.        breeding stations
units which were         ination and breeding       services,                                                             to far_ r groups
directly managed by    stations.                                                                                          and coopertives.
Governrent.
Encourage the deve-    Subsidies on sugar-    Eliminate subsidies                                                         Increase in            . Free up the control
lopnent of forage       beet pulp, bran and    and free up the dis-                                                       sugarbeet pulp.         of MARA an distri-
production and          barley have been         tribution of sugar-                                                      & bran prices            butimn of sugarbeet
better utilization      reduced in 1983/84       beet pulp, and bran.                                                     of is%                   pulp and iheat
of underutilized         (price increase of      Start program to                                                                                  bran.
domstic low cost         80w) to increase.       entourage forage pro-
feod by eliminating    efficiency of use of   duction a- utiliza-
existing price           feed materials.         tion of low value
distortions (subsi-                              animal feed materials.                                                                                                C
dies on high cost
animal feed).
Develop the national   Phasing out of all        Increase seasonal           Issuance of new milk                         Review price Policy  . Study other system
dairy processing        consumer subsidies       farmgate price diffe-    producer prices                                 for milk, butter and   of balancing milk
agroindustry so it      on milk and butter.    rential of milk              reflecting 17S                                powder to ensure         surplus besides
would be able to                                 between low and peak       differential between                          efficient balaing    powder eaking.
absorb the totality                              season to 25S so as        low and peak season.                          of excess Production.
of milk production                               to encourage a better
marketed at farm                                  interannual distri-                                                     Integrate livestock  . Fully integrate
level and economi-                               bution of production.                                                    and crop extension       livestock/crop
cally balance inter-                             Strengthen livestock                                                     in 20 pilot zones.       extension in rain-
annual variations                                extension services                                                                                fed areas and
between production                               with uniphasis on                                                        Camplete Study of        appoint Subject
and demand from                                   integration of crop/                                                    measures needed to      matter Specialist
domestic sources.                                animal production in                                                     liberalize few           In each OPA.
Authorize production   rainfed areas.                                                            prices by Dec. 1957
and sale by the
industry of low
fat fluid milk.
o 0
F0



1129E, Page 21                                                                 FROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJ2USTIMET LOAN
Timmtable for Adiustmnt Measures
Land PolWcy
Likuly T    amtabhl
Gavrmnt                 Recent Actians Taken   NediLi-Term Adiustmnt
OhianLin                by Gvrrmnt               Proaram                  Before meaotlations            OurJna 1nh 5 &inU  *9Jl                    1n.mdi,_  ru
Promote the esta-       Land consolidation       Achieve a substantial                            . Cplete interuin- . Enactnt of leg-    Setting up of a
blishment of aco-       programs have been       expansion of the                                   isterial review of   islatian Ud             agency to enourage
mically viable          undertaken essen-        legal framwork                                     draft legislation    follow-up steps         land tranfers an
production units.       tially in the            applicable in the                                  and develop action   to the internin-        fum restrscturng.
irrigated areas.        rainfed sector to                                  program for the        isterial review.
bring about a parity                               follow-up steps.
with the Irri, ."d
areas in the following
areas:
Provide better                                 (a) consolidation and
security of tenure                                 prevention of land
to tenant farmers.                                 fragmentation;
(b) expropriation and
land transfers;
(c) privatizatlon of
collective land
included in con-
solidation schemes;
Strengthen the          Cadastral survey       (d) land leases (dura-                                                     CoDlete the            Comnee land con-
knowledge of charac-   and land registra-          tion, standards,                                                       eadastral survey       sideration progrm
teristics and pro-      tion operations            suspension. regis-                                                     and land regis-        In rainfed areas
ductive potential       have been started          tration).                                                              tration on an          starting from eaor
of holdings as a        with Bank support                                                                                 additional 1.2H        developent pro-
necessary data base    on 800.000 ha (S                                                                                   ha.                    j  ts.               I
for implementation      of arable land).         Complete identifica-                                                                                                o
of land policy.                                  tion of collective                                                                                                  0
lands in high rain-                                                                                                 1
fall areas (provinces
with good agricultu-
ral production
potential).
0IS
x
o c



1129E, Page 22                                                                   No
AGRICULTURAL FCTOR ADJIUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable for Adiustment Measures
Innut nistributian
Likely timetable__
Government               Recint actions Taken   Kadium-TlrM Adiustnent
Oblectives               by Governnmnt            Procram                        fore Meaotiatios oUrnne  198S                  Ourin  lai.           in MediumTer
Improve the storage  . Revision of price         Encourage greater                                                                                 felvew the syste
and distribution        structure to              participation of the                                                                             of FEETriMA ^wopoiy
system to (a) main-    restore profitabi-         private sector in all                                                                            In Input of ferti-
tain present growth    lity of fertilizer        aspects of the ferti-                                                                             lizers and distri-
of consumption, (b)    distribution by           11er system                                                                                      bution of r  o-
ensure adequate and    Increasing whole-                                                                                                           Chlime produt.
tinuly availability    s"'e distribution
of fertilizer across  nr -ins (September
the country.            33 and october 84).
Encourage participa-   Adoption of more           Develop, agree and       . Develop criteria                               Actual closfng       . Encovrnoa  private
tion of private         efficient and             implement criteria for   for closing                                      down of 301 out-       sector participa-
sector and coopera-    flexible procedure's   closing down outlets           outlets and identify                           lets meeting           tion In security
tives in storage        for Periodical           operated by parastatal   those which meet                                  criteria,              and rescue stocks
and distribution,        adjustments.             (FERTIMA) at Govern-       these criteria.                                                       through a systm of
ment request In areas                                                                            incentives.
Participation of        where Private sector
private companies        participation is
in planning of          high.
fertilizer importa-
tion and distribu-
tion programs.
Creation of a new
allowance for over-                                                                                                                           %D
stocking to encourage
private investments
In storage capacity
and maintenance of
security stocks
Eliminate fertilizer   35% increase In           Gradual elimination                                  lSS increase in       201 increase in        Further aetion to
subsidies while          fertili2er prices       of the fertili2er                                    fertilizer prices,   fertilizer prices,   eliminate ferti-
maintaining produc-    (September 1983).          subsidy over the                                                                                 lizer subsidies by
tion incentives,                                 next five agricul-                                                                                19t9/90.
tural campaigns.                                                                                 Impl ent the
systm to absorb
Design of a system                                                                               large shocks in
to protect fanners                                                                               internatiotil
against short-tean                                                                               prices, while mir-
fluctuation In in-                                                                               tamning the average
ternational fert111-                                                                             subsidy at zero.
zer prices.                                                                                    . Deregulate dmstic
mrkettng with elf-
mination of the
uniform rstin
systam ad control
of retail prices.
0Q D
emx
c.,
'C



1129Ee Page 23                                                                 MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTgR ADJUSTHENT LOAN
Tiratable for Adlustment Heasuis
Forestrv
Likely Tlmtabla
GrAvxan:r nk            Recent Actions Taken   Mediu-T.r, Adiuttwnt
obaiet,,n               by Gvovrnmfnt            PrRar                    eBfors Moiattatins             urlhna  1985        Durljn 193f            In IdLinuAt
Ensure a reforesta-    Slight Increase In        Increase the resources   Examination of a                                Augent refore-        fund an *nual
tion level in con-      budgetary alloca-        allocated to refore-      proposal to cax                                station fu.dins       reforestation
formity with the        tions to the             station to achieve a      imports of wood                                levels to maintain   program of about
targets set in the      Forestry                minimnu  level of          by 5$.                                         a reforestation       40.06H ha.
National Reforesta-    Directorate in            20.000 ha/yr by                                                          level of miniai
tion Plan.              1983-84.                strengthening the role                                                    30,000 ha per year.
Guarantee a steady                               and resources of the
and stable flow of                               National Forestry
resources for                                    Fund (FNF) by chan-
reforestation                                    nelling additional
investments.                                    and regular flows of
Improve the insti-                               funds to FNF and
tLLional flexibility                            ensuring that local
of iaplementatton of                             conmunes invest 20t
the reforestation                                of their forest
program,                                         revenues into
reforestation.
Review the role of                                                       Def1in  Research
research and mant-                                                       priorities In the
toring of refore-                                                        forestry sector.
station activities.
Accelerate the                                                           Completion of
program for forest                                                       Nationl Inventory
inventory and                                                            nd definition of                           uD
management.                                                              forest mnagsnt                             N
loevelopment of                                                          plans for the minn   Start a pilot pro- 
alternative energy                                                       productive forests.  gram for bli-ass
sources in rural                                                                               developnt.
areas.
co x
I X
'ha



1129E1  Page 24                                                                   MM=
AthR1CULTIJRAL SItODR AO.2USThEIN? LOAMi
Timetahla far Adiuetnwnt Neasuras
Cereal Narketin.
_  Likpl  T                             _t_ le
Gooernmft                morcnt Actions Taken   Hadlun-Tarm AdAustm nt
OQkjantyX.               by Gnvear mnt            PrEara                      lafora Mant i ationS          au iu-               Ourim.1fL.             i       umT ri n
Reform of existing       Upward revision of       Introduction of basic    Revision and increase    Setting up of             Interinisterial        S trengthening the
price support system   official floor             reforms in the mar-         in allowances              special comls-    review of the            price support sys-
to Increase produc-    prices for cereals         keting system,              (3marges") to private/   sion within            report of special    tem for all cereals
tion incentives by       by 20% to encourage    including:                   public agents in            ONICL to draw up   comission.              by imploatine  the
making soft wheat        doemstic production. (a) enlarging the parti-   marketing chain to              an operational                              recoondatimns of
procurement channels                                cipation of private    prevent deterioration    plan for the                                     the special coxms-
more open and com-                                  miller and traders        In the present system    Implementation                                sion.
petitive and by                                     in the soft wheat        as a criteria measure.   of proposed
providing more                                      system by elimi-                                     reforms.                                    Extending a .ediuu-
effective price                                     nating SCAM/CNA                                      Improvins the                              term credit progrem
support for other                                   monopoly on domestic                                 prograiming of                              to finance on-farm
cereals.                                            purchase and by                                      domestic Pur-                               an  warket level
fixing the official                                 chases/imports by                           storage.
Regular review of                                   price on a delivered                                 resions/crops.
official prices to                                  mill basis. elimi-                                   Introduction of
ensure their main-                                  nating fixed margins                                 other improve-
tenance at remu-                                    and introducing more                                 ments in thi
nerative levels.                                    compotiton at retail                                 present marketing
level;                                              system Including:
(b) relating the soft                                 (a) strenothening    Develop a new
wheat import program                                  of OVICL's         methodology for
to domestic procure-                                  monitoring &       establishment of
ment to encourage                                     proruoimaing       Incentive producer
millers to use local                                  capacity using   pr1ces.
wheat,                                                TA as needed;
(c) providing Incentives                              (b) introduction of
to the use of private                                 pilot-contracts
sector storage at all                                 between SCAJs
stages between farm                                   and a few
and mill-                                             selected farmers
(d) reviewins the role                                     to give incen-
of village level co-                                  tives to on-farm
operatives and axis-                                  storage:
ting SCAH and CHU so                              Cc) extension of
as to offer more                                      agricultural
producers and alter-                                  credit inturi-
native marketing                                      ties to reduce
channel;                                              pressure for
(C) increasing the effec-                                  imiediate post-
tiveness of Support                                   harvest sales; and
price operations for                              (d) bringing cereal
other cereals, par,                                   cooperative
cularly barley.                                       buying points
(f) Improvement in the                                     nearer to the
system for revising                                   producer.
Official prices.
cc
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi



94 -ANNEX VI
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMEN  LOAN
TECHNICAL SUPPORT VOLUME -
COVERING ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM AND POUCEES
Table of Contents
Page No.
Cbapter I.    IRRIGATIGN
A.  Background ........    ...........................  1
B.  Government Strategy in the Sub-sector ........    2
C.  Subsector Performance        ........................  8
D. Sub-sector Issues and Government Policy
Directions ......................                11
x,. Actions under the Agricultural Sector Loan ...    19
Attachments:
Tables, Action Program
Chapter II,   EXTENSION
A. Background ... ............... ...............     26
B. Constraints to Extension Developement ........   28
C. Progress already achieved in Improvement of
Extension Services        .........................   30
D.  Implementation of the Extension Deve apment  ..   31
E.  Action Program ...  ............................    33
Attacluments:
Tables, Terms of Reference
Chapter  III.  SEED MULTIPLICATION
A.  Agricultural Production .................... ..   58
B.  Seed Demand and Supply ......     .................   58
C.  Constraints to Seed Production      . ...   62
D. Progress already made in Improvement of Seed
Production ...........................................   64
E.  MARA Policy for Certified Seed Improvement  ...   64
Attachments:
Action Program, Tables



ANNEX VI
- 95-                          Page 2
Page No.
CRAPTER IV.   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A.  Background .................................      73
B.  Constraints to Research Development .......       73
C. Progress already achieved in improving
Agricultural Research      ....................  76
D.  Government Program for Research Development       77
Attachments:
Action Program, Tables, Charts, Terms of Referente
Chapter V.     FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION AND PRICING
A.  Background *********...***.a****.*.**s*.***       90
Fertilizer Consumption and Supply ........      90
Fertilizer Distribution, System and
Market Structure ..........0.............      99
Fertilizer Pricing Mechanisms   ............   103
B. The Major Issues in Fertiliser Distribution
and Pricing      .* * ......... .... ...... .    105
The structure of the Marketing Chaing ....     105
The system of Fixed Distri'Dution
Allowances and Margins ...................    108
The Fertilizer Subsidies      .................    109
C. The Policy Reforms Proposed to Overcome
Cyonstraints ........... o...e.. o.........e....o......    120
Structure of the Marketing Chain ..........    120
System of Fixed Distribution Allowances
and margins                                   121
The Fertilizer Subsidy     ...................  122
Attachments:
Charts, Tables, Terms of Reference
Chapter VI.   LIVESTOCK
A. Sub-sector Situation and Constraints ......       136
General e             .......                  136
B. Medium Term Reforms Proposed      ..............  136
In the Field Government Services ........      146
C. Actions to be taken under the ASL ...o......      150
Privatization of Veterinary Medecine  ....     150
Management of Artificial Insemination  ...     151
Phasing out Government Intervention in
Fodder Distribution .....    ...............  152
Attachments:
Action Timetable, Terms of Reference, Tables



- 96 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 3
Page No.
Chapter VII.  CEREAL PROCUREMENT AND PRICE SUPPORT
A.  Background ........ .. ................       165
Marketing Practices     ......................    166
Government Price Policy ... ...............  167
B. Public Sector Intervention Machinery .......   168
C. Medium Term Reforms . ...................... .    177
Attachments:
Terms of Reference, Tables, Charts
Chapter VIII.  LAND POLICY
A.  Land Tenure Situation and Constraints ......  188
B. The existing Land Policy and the Major Past
Achievements .   ............................  190
C. Land Development in the Rainfed Sector: the
Necessary Legal Instruments    ..............   196
D. Government Land Policy Objectives and action
timetable for reforms .....  ...............    200
Attachments:
Tables, History, Data
Chapter IX.   FORESTRY
A. Major constraints to Forestry Development      203
B. Place of Forestry in the Economy .... .......   203
C. Forest Resources, Inventory Program and
Management Plans .................. ..      204
D. Wood Production, Trade and Demand Projections   206
E. ForestrylLivestock Interaction and Forestry
Rangeland Management .....  ...............  209
F. Future Reforestation Requirements .........    211
G. The Financing of Reforestation .... ........    215
H. The Adjustment Programs and Actions   .......    217
Attachments:
Tables
CHAPTER X.    PRICES AND INCENTIVES
A. General ...........  ........................  233
B. The Major Features of the Pricing and
Incentives Structure in Agriculture  .....    234
C. Overall Directions for Reform ... ..........    240
Attachments:
Appendices, Tables, Charts
1400E



- 97 -                             Table 1
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Production Performance
(1970 - 1983)
(in '000 tons)
1970-75     1975-80      1981-83
Cereals                        4,449        4,358        3,535
Pulses                           452          301          201
Oilcrops                           27          33           35
Sugarbeet                      1,657        2,119        2,280
Sugarcane                           -         251          472
Cotton                             21          17           19
Vegetables'A                      823       1,060        1,285
Citrus Fruits'                   821          894        1,031
Olives                            263         275          433  
Milk'I                            476         670          660
Meat                              236         283          322
/a Early crops, tomatoes, potatoes, fresh vegetables.
/b Crop year October-July.
/c 1982 only.
id In thousand liters.
Source: MARA, Agricultural Statistics.
1362E/pl



- 98 -
Table 2
MOROCCO
AGRICtTLTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ARricultural Imports and Exports
A. Exports
1971-75      1980     1981      1982      1983
(Avg.)
Citrus Fruit                            560        772      632        595      541
Fresh Tomatoes                          142         96       91         72       70
Potatoes                                 78         44        27        21       91
Other Fresh Fruit & Vegetables           26         15        11        10       10
Processed Fruit & Vegetables             93         80       81         72       81
Pulses                                  167          9      104          4       10
Wine                                     76         27       56         45       16
Olive Oil                                20         20         1         1        1
Cork & Cork Products                     30         15       12          9        6
Total Exports ('000 tons)            1422       L.llQ      _2Z1      ;.829   ..Z
Value (DbM)                1,760      2,136    1,931      1,959   2,215
B. Imports
1971-75      1980     1981      1982      1983
(Avg.)
Food Products                        1,373      2,241    3,122       2,375   2,310
of which:  Bread Wheat               808      1,652    2,262       1,598   1,738
Sugar                     260        328      310        270      248
Edible Oil                111        152      166        195      165
Milk Products              28         41       38         42       30
Tea                        13         18       23         14       16
Other Agri. Products                   n/a        877       965        n/a      n/a
of which:  Fertilizer                167        338       267        350      285
Wood                      262        370      361        468      317
Total Agri. Imports ('000 tons)  1 . 940                  L21.       ...QaZ nLa
Value (DhM)                2,070      4,581    6,596      4,972   5,081
Net Agri. Trade Deficit
(in DH million)                      310      2,445    4,665      3,081   2,866
1362E/p2



- 99 -
Table 3
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSThEINT LOAN
Projected Average Annual Agricultural Input Import Program
(1985-88)
Item                                Quantity             Amount
(US$ M)
1.  Fertilizers
a.   Raw Materials'A                   210,000 tons          20.0
b.   Finished Products                 335,000 tons          42.5
2. ARri. Machinery
a.   Tractors                            2,500 units         35.0
b.   Harvesting Equipment                1,500 units
C.   Other Equip. & Spare Parts
3.  Seeds'b                                 30,000 tons           8.0
&. Animal Feed                             180,000 tons          26.0
5.  Pesticides                               4,500 tons          10.0
6.  Vet. Medicines                              -                  7.5
..  Others (Eggs, germ plasm, etc.)                               1.0
Total Imported Inputs''
/a To make 270,000 tons of finished fertilizer.
lb Local seed production for cereals would be about 57,000 tons.
tc Excluding fuel for agricultural purposes, estimated at $40M each year.
L362E/p3



- 100 -                               Table 4
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTIMIT LOAN
Five-Year Water Char2e Recovery Program
(Recovery Rate Z) /a
O.R.K.V.A. /b            Actual Achievement           Proiected Minimum Achievement
1981   1982   1983   1984 /c    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
- boulouya        56      35     51      50         55      60     70     80      90
-Gharb             23     37     43      40         45      50     60      70     75
- Doukkala       100    100    100    100          100    100    100    100    100
- aouz             92     15     31      50         55      65     75     85      90
-Tadla             34     43     38     40          55      65     75     85      95
- Souss-Massa     38      36     12      15         35     45      70     80      85
- Loukks          27      68     82     80          85    _85      90     90      95
TOTAL              mi.     -L      U        Zz    -s 64                            _n =
/a  Amount actually recovered in the year as a percentage of amount legally
due for recovery in the year, including past arrears.
/b In two other ORMVAs of Ouarzazate and Tafilalet, a legal basis for
recovery is yet to be developed.
/c Estimated level.
1362E/p4



- 101 -                               Table _'
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Public Investment Program (Agriculture)
Core Group of Priority Projects and Operations
1984                   1985      Increase in
Actual                    Allocations
Allocations  Expenditures    Allocations        (2)
(in DR million)
Reforestation Program                    81          53               103         27
Gharb-Mamora and Loukkos                 51          36                64         25
Soil Conservation
and Sylvopastoral Programs           28          20                42         50
Rangeland Improvement Program             9           6                16         77
Medium-scale Irrigation'                 78          44                86         10
Small-scale Irrigation'b                 28          21                64        128
Integrated Rural
Development Projects'-              121         101               162         33
Vegetable Marketing                      13           7                18         38
Large-scale Irrigation-,                340         279               469         37
Extension and Research                   55          31                78         41
i.  Sub-total "Core Program"          804         598             1,102         37
ii.            "Non-core Program"    631           256               495        (22)-
iii.  Total Sector Investment         1,435         854             1,i97         11
iv. Core Program as a Percentage
of Total Sector Investment    56%          70%               69%
/a Souss, Sebou, Ghiss, Bittit, Chichaoua, Tagant, Ain el Atrons,
Jemaa Sahim, Ouizgat, Bac de Hemri, Hadra el Bave.
/b Mostly south of the Atlas.
fc Fes-Karia-Tissa, Oulmes-Rommani, Middle Atlas.
/d  Tine Oharbia, Faregh, Sidi Smail (Doukkala), Issen (Souss-Massa), PTI (Haouz),
3rd sector Garet (Moulouya), Tafilalet/Ouarzazate.
1362E/p5



AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Public rnvstnmnt Proarai
Car& Groun af Praritw Prolaets and Operations UZ
Impact on     Economic   Production/   Employwent    Income    DOostic           Rehabilitation/
Balance of    Viability      Impact       creation      Distri-     Reform                            Early
peamnts                                           .   but0in.   IbbilizaUtio    hdarnzaionn        CIaG_leti
- Reforestation Program Li              2             2             1             4           3           4                 h.a            h.a.
- Gharb-Mamora and Laukkos              2             4             2             4           4            3                h.a.           h.a.
- Soil Conservation
and Sylvopastoral Programs          1             3             1             4           4           4                 h.a.           h.a.
- Rangeland Improvement Program         1             3             2             3           4           4                 h.a.           h.a.
- Hediun-scale Irrigation LI            3             4             3             5           5           3                 5               3
- Small-scale Irrigation LI             3             5             3             5           5           4                 5               3
- Integrated Rural
rivelopment ProJects Li             3            4              4            3            5           2                 h.a.           S
- Vejetable Marketing                   5             4             4             2           1           jt.a.             h.a.           h.a.
- Large-scale Irrigation Li             4             3             4             2           2            1                4               4
- Extension and Research                h.a.          h.a.          h.a.          h.a.        h.h. h.a.                     ha.             h.a.
Core Program as a Percentage
of Total Investment Budget                                                                                                                       12
1/ Industrial plantations
2/ mostly rehabilitation of traditional schemes
/ mostly rehabilitation of spring-fed traditional schemos south of the Atlas
A/  Fes-Karia-Tissa, Oulmes-Rfmeni, Middle Atlas
Al  Tine Gharbia, Faregh, Sidi Small (Ooukkala), Issem (Souss-Iassa); PTY  (Haout), 3rd sector Gaset CMoulouya), Tafilalet/Ouarzzate.
O/ or low net recurrent expenditure
2/ 1--- 5; minor --- major positive Impact
IJ6ZE p6



- 103 -                            Table 6
MOROCCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Budget Impact Analysis of Alternative
Domestic Procurement Strategy for Soft Wheat
A         B          C
Normal      Good       Bad
Alternative                                       Harvest    Harvest Harvest
Proportions of:
Domestically procured                                12S       20%         5S
Imported                                            88S        80X        95Z
Item
A. ONICL Costs (DH million)
1.  Milling subsidy                            1,500     1,500     1,500
2.   Storage allowance (mainly domestic)         200       230        180
3.   Transport costs (mainly domestic)           120       160       100
4.   Handling costs (imports)                    100        80        130
5.   Miscellaneous                                20        20         20
6.              Total costs                    1,940     1,990     1,920
B. ONICL receipts (DH million)
7.  Payments to ONICL when domestic price
exceeds import costs                     528        480       570
8.  SUBSIDY PAYMENTS BY TREASURY (6-7)        1,412      1.510     1,350
9.              Total receipts                1,940      2,010     1,920
C.
10. Sales of flour (Ql/mns)                       16        16         16
11. Flour subsidy (DH/Ql) (9 divided by 10)   121          124       120
12. Official selling price of flour (DH/Ql)   135          135       135
13. Cost price of flour (DR/Qt)                 256        259       255
Key Assumptions:
(a) total supply of soft wheat to be 2 million tons;
(b) increased allowances for millers' crushing costs;
(c) import cost based on current CIF quotations: and 1985 official
procurement price for soft wheat of DH 180/quintal;
(d) selling price of flour being increased to DE 135 per quintal where it
would stand in the same proportion to the producer price as under
present prices; and
(e) implementation of proposed increases in "marges" for storage and
delivery costs; transport costs at current rates.
1378E



IBRD 1B831
--- i sN  1T MWS   -    I T -SAI^ *ja  'w   i
AGRICULTURAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I SECORLON                             /p
.efANfC  A                  MoYa St ^ noD                                                                          seea
/INi                          tow           .-.Rli
acAN, 1q1'C          I  USYi A  ARAa         ---- Tracks
4 7>    ...                               A   WI
MAWflA7 AI  . - ,         .1'
"-~~Ml  )9 411)             .         -           ;"1 Pat2
UtdOAI\P-      ; ),,   ,   CHAD                  ,lints
NIGIRIAsA   GE   I 
o  C~ E         A iA N               .\r
Map impti,n Po
-Swt I                               IW W  UMALIl
*wJ                 Wwaatbi                             ''as (ipndld                                  '''
"Coles 1a J !I S" twc  e..
MO R 0 CCO
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN                                                        V
CANAl? ISLANDS
.7e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N.~~~~.
M    A   U   R   IT   A   N                                N 
Ge-                             0AW      ,                             r                                             N N



