Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4790
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
November 18, 1983
Eastern Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA                  -    Regional Planning Office
BAPPENAS                 -    National Planning Board
DGT                      -    Directorate General of Transmigration
DIP                      -    Daftar Isi Proyek (Project Budget)
GOI                      -    Government of Indonesia
HIID                     -    Harvard Institute for International Development
IDA                      -    International Development Association
INPRES                   -    Public works programs implemented by local
governments under a special Presidential Decree
KEPPRES                  -    Presidential Decree.  KEPPRES 10 is the
Presidential Decree which set up the Central
Procurement Committee.
MIGAS                    -    Directorate General of Gas and Oil
NES                      -    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
PAS                      -    Project Advisory Service (USA)
REPELITA                 -    Five Year Development Plan
PENMAS                   -    Non-formal Education
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation): Rupiah (Rp)
Exchange Rate Prevailing at time of:
Credit Signing, 1974                                  US$1 = Rp. 415
Implementation, average 1976-82                       US$1 = Rp. 625
Completion year average 1982                          US$1 = Rp. 625



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL ISE ONLY
SecM83-1093
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                         November 22, 1983
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Indonesia - Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit 451-IND)
Attached is a copy of a memorandum from Mr. Weiner, with its
accompanying report entitled "Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Fourth
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 451-IND)" dated November 18, 1983 (Report
No. 4790) prepared in the East Asia & Pacific Regional Office.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank
This document has a restricted distribution ano may be used by recipients only, in the pertormance
of their of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluatkon
November 18, 1983
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Fourth Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit 451-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Fourth Technical Assistance
Credit (Credit 451-IND)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office. Under the modified system for project performance auditing,
further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....................................................  (i)
Basic Data Sheet ...................................................... (ii)
Highlights ......................................................... (iv)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Project Data                         . .    1
II.  Project Background and Objectives .................       1
III. Evaluation of Results                .        .           2
IV.  Legal Undertakings and Compliance          .     .        4
ANNEX 1
1. Advisory Services to Bank Indonesia           .      .         1
2. Steel Advisory Services ..............................         1
3. Project Monitoring, Planning and Budgeting ....       ........    2
4. Transmigration Preparation Team ........................    6
5. Advisory Services to Directorate General
of  Transmigration  ................................... .    6
6. Advisor to Bank Indonesia ..............................    7
7. Pre-investment Study for Community Education ...........    7
8. Jambi NES Project Preparation ..........................    8
9. Rice Intensification Study .............................    8
10. West Java Transmission Study ...........................       8
11. Hard Mineral Taxation Study                .        .          9
12. Advisor to the Ministry of Finance             .      .       10
13. Aerial Photography for the Baturaja
Transmigration Project                 .         .          11
14. Pemali Comal Feasibility Study .........................   11
15. Fertilizer Plant Advisor                 ..                   11
16. Transport Planning Advisory Services           .      .       12
17. Advisor to the Directorate General of Estates for
Procurement ..........................................   12
18. Advisory Services to the Government            .      .       13
19. Advisory Services by Mr. A.K. Pickering          .     .      14
20. Study of Rail Transportation Bukit Asam          .     .      15
21. Batam Industrial Development Project ...................   15
22. Sunda Strait Current Wave Study              ..               16
23. Saguling Hydro Power Feasibility Study           .     .      17
24. Advisory Services ................. .....................       17
25. Rural Development ......................................   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
26. North Sumatra Transport Project Preparation ............   18
27. NES III Project Preparation                .       .          19
28. Natural Gas Pricing and Associated Gas Study ...........   20
29. Coconut Disease Survey .................................   20
30. Yogyakarta Rural Development Project ...................  21
31. Village Development ....................................   21
32. Rural Roads Study ......................................   22
33. North Sumatra Transport Phase II .......................   22
ANNEX 2     Disbursements for Sub-projects
ANNEX 3     Major Subproject Categories



(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
PREFACE
Credit 451-IND for the Fourth Technical Assistance Project was
signed on January 2, 1974. The credit of $5.0 million equivalent was closed
after the original Closing Date had been extended 51/2years to June 30, 1982.
This report was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
and is based on a review of files and documents, interviews with IDA and
Borrower staff and a visit to Jakarta in October 1982. No comments were received
from the Borrower.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.






(ii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Expectation      Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ Million)               5.9           5.9
Overrun (%)                                       
Credit Amount (US$ Million)                    5.0           5.0
Disbursed                                 5.0           5.0
Cancelled                                  -             -
Repaid to                                  -             -
Outstanding                               5.0           5.0
Date Physical Components Completed             n.a.          n.a.
Proportion Completed by Original
Completion Date                              n.a.          n.a.
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                 n.a.          n.a.
Economic Rate of Return (%)                    n.a.          n.a.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY74  FY75  FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79 FY80   FY81  FY82
(i)  Estimated            0.5   2.0   4.0   5.0      -      -    -       -     -
(ii)  Actual                 -   0.3   1.0   1.0   2.3   3.3  3.7    3.7   5.0
(iii)  (ii):(i)-(%)           -      6    20    20    46    66   74       74   100






(ii )
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plans          Revision              Acttji'
First Mention in Files               1972               1972                  1972
Government's Application          09/1973            09/1973               09/1973
Negotiations                      11/1973            11/1973               11/1973
Board Approval                          -                  -            12/20/1973
Credit Agreement Date                   -                               01/02/1974
Effectiveness Date            03/05/1974                                03/05/1974
Closing Date                  12/31/1976                                06/30/1982
Borrower                   -  Government of Indonesia
Executing Agency           -  National Planning Board (BAPPENAS)
Fiscal Year of Borrower   -  April 1 - March 31
Follow-on Project Name    -  Fifth Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number              -  898-IND
Amount (US$ Million)       -  10.0
Credit Agreement Date      -  05/07/1979
MISSION DATA
Item           Month/Year  No.of Weeks  No.of Persons  Man-weeks  Date of Report
Identification      1972        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.       12/01/1972
Appraisal           n.a.        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.             n.a.
Supervision         n.a.        n.a.          n.a.           n.a.             n.a.
Completion       10/1982            3             1             3       05/07/1983
Total            3            1              3






(iv,
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - FOURTH TECHUI,CAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
HIGHLIGHTS
The primary objective of this project was to finance advisory
services and staff training to improve decision making and management
capabilities of public agencies and state enterprises and to assist the
authorities in the preparation of regulations for foreign investments,
including the terms appropriate for certain mining and timber investments that
were under review. In the mid-70s the Government (GOI) wished to devote
greater attention to strengthening its institutions and to improving its
administrative machinery and procedures in order to address more complex
policy and operational problems that were emerging. The secondary objective
was to assist project preparation and pre-investment studies in major sectors.
Although the project contributed significantly to improvements in
administrative procedures and decision making, more progress is still needed
in this area. For example, budget procedures of GOI have been simplified
substantially but further streamlining is possible. In particular,
implementation of GOI's development programs could be improved if the
authorities were to establish a medium-term budgeting system. Similarly,
while the new procurement system introduced through Presidential Decrees No.
10 and 14A has helped GOI to process large contracts more expeditiously, while
exercising stricter control over them, further streamlining is also needed in
contract approvals. Whether or not BAPPENAS and Bank Indonesia staff should
be involved in contract approval needs to be examined. In addition, the
significant delays in processing letters of credit requests warrant attention
by policy makers. Finally, inadequate staffing in BAPPENAS prevents the
project monitoring system from obtaining feedback on a timely fashion.
Further review of the staffing requirements and the roles of BAPPENAS in the
light of the present circumstances is necessary if development administration
is to become more efficient (Sub-project No. 3).
The project has had mixed success in achieving reforms in mineral
taxation, foreign investment regulation, budget preparation, natural gas
pricing, transport planning, transmigration, Batam Island development and
regional planning and development. The results of the hard mineral taxation
study were used by the Government to revise the guidelines for third
generation" mineral contracts. The transmigration advisor helped the
authorities design an improved coordination mechanism for the agencies
concerned. The advisors to BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance apparently
produced useful reports in energy policy, mineral industry promotion, steel






(v)
industry planning, rubber and copra exports, consumer price index calculation
methodology, and preparation of budget estimates (subprojects Nos. 5, 11, 12,
17 and 18). But no strong evidence is available to indicate much success
under the transport planning, natural gas pricing, Batam Island development,
and regional planning and development studies. It seems that the authorities
did not agree with the recommendations made by the consultants in these latter
areas (subprojects Nos. 16, 21 and 28).
In contrast, all project preparation and investment studies (except
one) financed under this Project resulted in discreet investment projects
suitable for Bank Group financing or for assistance from other sources. The
exception is the Village Development Project Preparation Study, (subproject
No. 31). The reason that this study did not result in a project is that
the National Planning Board (BAPPENAS) maintained that the Government was able
to implement its village development program without outside assistance.
The closing date of the Credit was extended several times for a total
of 51/2years.  The original closing date, which was set unrealistically at
three years from signing, did not take adequate account of the time required
to prepare TOR for all the subprojects and subsequently to complete them. For
example, the project monitoring, planning and budgeting study (subproject No.
3) required 41/2years to complete, from July 1975 - December 1979. By itself,
this study would have and, in fact did, require an extension of the closing
date. Moreover, some subprojects were approved only a few months before the
revised closing date, which again appears to have been set unrealistically,
and these, in turn, required further extensions. Based on our experience
under this Credit, the closing date of the subsequent Technical Assistance
Credit (CR.898) was set at five years from the signing of the Credit
Agreement.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDDONESIA - FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
(CREDIT 451-IND)
I. PROJECT DATA
1.01     Amount of Credit            : US$5.0 million
Amount disbursed            : US$5.0 million
Date of Credit Agreement  : January 2, 1974
Effective Date              : March 5, 1974
Original Closing Date       : December 31, 1976
Actual Closing Date            June 30, 1982
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
2.01     This Credit was the fourth of its kind made by the Association (IDA)
to Indonesia; the earlier ones were made in December 1968 (Credit 135-IND:
Technical Assistance Credit), in September 1970 (Credit 216-IND: Second
Technical Assistance Credit) and in December 1971 (Credit 275-IND: Third
Technical Assistance Credit), respectively.
2.02     In contrast to those earlier technical assistasnce credits, the
emphasis of the Fourth Technical Assistance was on financing advisory services
and staff training to improve decision making and management capabilities of
public agencies and state-owned enterprises and to assist in policy analysis
and preparation of regulations relating to foreign investment, including the
terms appropriate for certain large mining and timber investments that were
under review. Assistance for project preparation and preinvestment studies
became a secondary objective, because funds were already included under
operations for project lending for such purposes and also because over the
years the Government had become successful to some extent in building up its
project pipeline. In mid-70s GOI wished to devote greater attention to
strengthening its institutions and improving the administrative machinery and
procedures in order to address more complex policy and operational problems
that were then emerging.
2.03     The Bank Group's Economic Report (R73-6/4) dated December 1, 1972
contained a separate Annex on broad planning and management issues. The major
needs identified in that report were:
- Reforms in budgetary and financial control procedures;
- Establishment of a project implementation monitoring system in BAPPENAS;
- Improved public service and personnel administration and salary system;
- Upgrading management systems of state enterprises and public
agencies; and
- Setting up a central procurement information unit.



- 2-
2.04     The second major objective under the Fourth Technical Assistance
Credit was to support sector or project studies for innovative programs where
intensive preparation was crucial to success, sometimes involving cofinancing
arrangements.   Lastly, funds were also provided to solve criticial unforeseen
problems in the preparation of some specific projects.
III. EVALUATION OF RESULTS
3.01     Annex 3 lists the subprojects funded under Credit 451-IND in two
major groups in line with the objectives summarized in the preceding
paragraphs. For purposes of policy advice and institutional improvements nine
subprojects were approved, totalling about $2.0 million or 40% of the Credit
amount. The balance of the Credit was used to finance 13 subprojects falling
under the category of innovative or complex project preparation or studies.
3.02     When seen in the context of the original major objectives referred to
above, it can be concluded that significant accomplishments have been made
under a number of subprojects but there have also been some failures. For
example, the project implementation, monitoring, budgeting and planning
exercise has helped the Government to simplify its project budget format (DIP,
Daftar Isi Proyed), its pre-financing procedures, its post expenditure audit
and to adopt a centralized procurement system (KEPPRES 10). However, the
project monitoring system established with the help of the consultants is not
yet serving any useful purpose. The primary reason for this failure is the
lack of staff in BAPPENAS to make the new system work. Top management of
BAPPENAS has not accepted the recommendations of the consultants and Bank
Group staff to increase its staff and to shift the emphasis of BAPPENAS's role
away from implementation towards more involvement in planning. Perhaps one
reason is that short-term pressures have forced the decision-makers to treat
longer-term policy and institutional reforms as lower priority matters. A
more vigorous approach by the Bank Group concerning improvements in economic
administration in Indonesia was probably necessary and still remains a valid
objective. Given the fact that BAPPENAS has many dedicated and able staff and
has made such a significant contribution to Indonesia's economic development,
it is difficult to understand why there has been such strong resistance by
BAPPENAS's top management to increase their staff and to adjust their roles
and procedures to changed circumstances as many line agencies have indeed done
over the years so successfully. It is also difficult to explain why the Bank
Group apparently preferred not to emphasize this issue, while minor
organizational changes in project agencies or even appointment of consultants
were made in some cases conditions for negotiation, Board presentation or loan
effectiveness. It would seem appropriate to have shown greater sensitivity to
development administration which has a crucial bearing on the overall role of
the Bank Group in Indonesia. Analytical work done in these areas by the
consultants and Bank Group staff could have been used effectively to reinforce
the points made in the course of higher level policy discussions. It is hoped
that some follow-up work subsequently initiated by the Resident staff in
Jakarta on mid-term budgeting and public administration will bring about some
tangible improvements in the future.



-3-
3.03     The other subprojects included in this group have demonstrated mixed
results. The Mineral Taxation Study, the advisory services provided by
Messrs. Henriksen and Bolle, the reports prepared by Mr. W.C. Hollinger, the
Natural Gas Pricing Study and the advisory services for Transmigration all
appear to have made contributions in their respective areas. However, the
Transport Advisory Planning Services, the National Development Planning Study
and the Batam Island Development Study have shown little or no success in
achieving their objectives.
3.04     Compared to the subprojects referred to in paras. 3.02 and 3.03,
project or program related studies have had greater success. Except for the
Village Development Project Preparation Study which lacked firm commitment
from some Government agencies, particularly BAPPENAS, all the subprojects have
been used by the Bank Group for operational purposes and resulted in discreet
projects suitable for Bank Group financing.
3.05     It appears that the mechanism established by the Bank Group to
supervise subprojects financed under the Technical Assistance Credits has, in
some cases, contributed to the poor performance of some subprojects. Under
the agreed procedures, IDA assigns a representative to sit on the Steering
Committee for the subproject. The representative is usually one of the staff
from the Bank's Jakarta Office, where there are no sector specialists, except
for agriculture. Some subprojects are purely technical in nature and it is
doubtful whether the Resident Staff is always sufficiently qualified to evalu-
ate and discuss consultants' recommendations on technical matters. One solu-
tion to this problem could be to assign Washington-based technical specialists
to represent IDA on these committees and to plan their meetings under a
schedule to suit the travel programs of these staff. Secondly, supervision
responsibility for most projects funded under technical assistance credits
appears to be split between the Resident Staff and Washington-based staff.
For example, when TORs are prepared for subprojects, clearance from Washington
is always required. In the approval of consultant selection and draft
contracts, the entire responsibility rests again with the Washington-based
staff. However, once these steps are completed, supervision of subprojects
(attending Steering Committee meetings, answering questions from consultants,
reviewing their reports and, sometimes, discussing these reports with the
Government) shifts almost totally to the Resident Staff. This mechanism
creates confusion as to who is responsible for supervision. This may explain
why Steering Committees have not been established for some subprojects and why
even the established committees have not always excercised their expected
supervisory role. Drawing on this experience, IDA staff have recently decided
that supervision responsibility for the subprojects financed under the Fifth
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 898-IND) will be assigned clearly when the
subproject is approved. The need to have regular and adequately planned
meetings by Steering Committees has also been recognized.



- 4 -
IV. LEGAL UNDERTAKINGS AND COMPLIANCE WITH THEM
4.01     As in the case of the three previous Technical Assistance Credits,
the major legal undertakings were the following:
(a)   For the purpose of carrying out each subproject, the Borrower shall
employ experienced consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, to the extent required and on terms and conditions,
including terms of reference, approved by the Borrower and the
Association (Section 4.02 (a) of the Credit Agreement);
(b)   In respect of subprojects there shall be maintained steering
committees, each consisting of a representative of the Borrower as
Chairman, a representative of the Association and, if the Borrower
and the Association shall so agree, additional members or represen-
tatives of other entities concerned with particular subprojects
(Section 4.02 (b) of the Credit Agreement);
(c)   The steering committee maintained for each subproject shall be
responsible for selecting services, equipment and supplies and
directing their use for such subprojects, supervising and directing
the work of the consultants employed therefore, recommending
modifications of their terms of reference or other terms and
conditions of their employment, and reviewing the reports and
recommendations of such consultants (Section 4.02 (c) of the Credit
Agreement);
(d)   The Borrower shall cause consultants employed for the Project
promptly to furnish the Association copies of the documents prepared
by them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, in
such number as the Association shall reasonably request (Section 4.03
(a) of the Credit Agreement; and
(e)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recom-
mendations and other conclusions contained in the documents referred
to in the foregoing paragraph (Section 4.03 (b) of the Credit
Agreement).
4.02     The performance of the Borrower in fulfilling the above undertakings
has, by and large, been satisfactory. Steering Committees were established
for all subprojects, except seven (Nos.1, 5, 16, 17, 27, 29 a-Id 30 listed in
Annex l). The Association was given copies of the reports prepared by the
consultants for all subprojects with the exception of four (Nos. 1, 2, 16 and
19 in Annex I). As for the exchange of views between the Borrower and IDA on
the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations contained in the con-
sultants' reports, the performance has been mixed. While the Government and
IDA have reviewed the results of project/program preparation related
subprojects (listed in Annex 3)and most of these recommendations have been



implemented in projects subsequently financed by the Bank Group, the exchange
of views on some of the policy and institution oriented subprojects (listed in
Annex 3) has been less than expected. The discussion on the project monitor-
ing, planning and budgeting study has been explained in para. 3.02 above.
4.03     The Government's contribution to all subprojects funded under Credit
451-IND has been about 15% of total costs, in accordance with the Credit
Agreement.



-6-                  ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 22
DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS AND THEIR RESULTS
UNDER THE
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 451-IND) IN INDONESIA
1. Advisory Services to Bank Indonesia
Consultant              Mr. Wilhelm A.G. Boucherie (Holland)
Executing Agency        Bank Indonesia
Amount                  US$139,384.73
1.01     One of the main objectives of GOI's second five year plan was to give
greater opportunity to the economically weak. Measures contemplated for this
purpose included support for small scale industries through credit expansion,
improved technical assistance and capital participation. Bank Indonesia was
expected to play an important role in this respect but it needed assistance to
prepare a program and implement it. Mr. Boucherie was selected to assist Bank
Indonesia in this respect. He was employed as an advisor to assist Bank
Indonesia in coordinating various public activities for promoting development
of small scale industry, including monitoring of credit distribution, exten-
sion services, and technical and managerial assistance programs for develop-
ment of small scale enterprises.
1.02     There is no indication that a formal steering committee was set up.
The objectives of this subproject were achieved, however. As a follow up to
this subproject, a credit of $40 million and a loan of $106 million were made
in FY78 and FY81, respectively, to finance parts of GOI's small scale
enterprises development programs (KIK/KMKP) both of which are being
implemented successfully.
2. Steel Advisory Services
Consultant              Mr. Glen Carson (USA)
Executing Agency        BAPPENAS
Amount                  US$157,968.29
2.01     The allocation for this subproject was subsequently charged to Credit
275-IND (Third Technical Assistance Project). A detailed report on it
appeared in the Completion Report for Credit 275-IND under subproject No. 14.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 22
3. Project Monitoring, Planning and Budgeting (1975-80)
Consultant           : Public Administration Service (USA)
Executing Agency    : National Planning Board (BAPPENAS)
Amount               : US$1,092,005.38 ($329,182.21 was charged to
Credit 275-IND)
(Phase I       $ 47,578.18
Phase II  :   $475,636.69
Phase III :   $232,440.30
Phase IV  :  $336,350.21
3.01     This subproject was carried out in four phases over a period of five
years starting in July 1975, and ending in December 1979. Its original focus
was on project implementation monitoring, but as the work progressed the major
emphasis, certainly in phase IV, was on planning, programming and budgeting
processes. The effort was therefore towards improved development adminis-
tration, a subject of particular interest to the Bank Group. For this reason,
this report includes more detailed information on this subproject.
3.02     First, a few words on the origin of this study will explain why there
was a need for such a study. Following the 1965 internal turmoil, the
successors of the late President Sukarno were willing to adopt a methodical
approach to economic development through five year development plans called
REPELITA. After the re-establishment of political stability, the technocrats
entrusted by the President to prepare such plans, invited a Pakistani planning
expert, financed by the Bank Group as a technical advisor to come to
Indonesia. This advisor started his work in 1968 and the budget and planning
system recommended by him for development projects was adopted by the
Government for REPELITA I (1979-74). However, the experience with project
implementation during this first plan period was unfortunate, in the opinion
of the technocrats and the Bank Group. During the REPELITA I, implementation
of almost all projects financed by the Bank Group encounted problems. Dis-
bursements were very low. The Indonesia Programs Division was asked in the
early 1970s, to submit monthly reports to the President of the Bank Group on
the progress of disbursements and project implementation. The planning and
budgeting system and the instruments utilized for evaluating projects appeared
to be cumbersome and inappropriate. For example, the project budget document
called DIP /1 contained 7-9 pages, which required excessive time to prepare
and which was not useful for monitoring implementation. Consequently, both
/1 Dafter Isi Proyek or simply project budget.



- 8 -                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 22
the Bank Group Staff and the GOI officials concerned came to the conclusion
that there was a need to establish a different system through which problems
affecting project implementation could be identified and addressed
expeditiously. As a result, GOI asked IDA to finance the services of
consultants to prepare a project implementation monitoring system. By mutual
agreement, the Public Administration Services (PAS) of USA was asked to
provide some experts for this purpose. The total sum allocated by IDA to
finance the services of the PAS consultants amounted to $1,092,005.38 of which
$329,182.21 was charged to the Third Technical Assistance Project (Credit
275-IND) /2 and $762,823.17 to the Fourth Technical Assistance Project (Credit
451-IND). Total GOI contribution to cover all the four phases of the
subproject amounted to $194,538.99 equivalent or about 15% of the total cost
as required under both Credit Agreements. A Steering Committee was formed for
the subproject and it was convened several times to review progress.
3.03     The PAS consultants were employed for five years under four separate
contracts, each constituting a separate phase of the subproject. During work
under the first, second and third phases, the consultnts designed a project
monitoring system, trained local staff to implement it, prepared a detailed
implementation manual, and, in 1978/79, assisted in the actual establishment
of the system. At the request of BAPPENAS their major work under the fourth
phase focussed on planning and budgeting of development projects, reflecting
BAPPENAS's recognition of the direct relationship between project monitoring,
and planning and budgeting functions. In fact, out of the 54 man-months
allocated for this phase, about 43 man-months was spent on the planning and
budgeting component of the study. In addition to the PAS consultants, two
Bank staff and a team of Indonesian officials also worked on this subproject.
3.04     Thus BAPPENAS recognised that the monitoring system ought to be
integrated with the planning and budgeting system. BAPPENAS's willingness to
re-examine the adequacy of GOI's planning and budgeting system was also
influenced by the critical position taken by the Bank Group. Almost all
project supervision reports had included some reference to the adverse affect
of the complicated DIP system and cumbersome budget procedures on project
implementation. This issue was also raised during high level discussions,
which were held several times under the heading of the "Project Implementation
Review" with GOI officials to ascertain the major factors causing delays in
project implementation
3.05     As requested, the PAS consultants reviewed planning and budgeting
procedures of GOI and prepared a simplified DIP format as well as a Standard
Project Document to be used for planning, programming,, budgeting and moni-
/2       The Project Completion Report for this Credit was prepared by
Mr. J.R. Bumgarner. See his memorandum of June 6, 1977



- 9 -                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 22
toring purposes. They also prepared a report on the improvement in the
internal procedures and practices, and organizational structure of BAPPENAS.
A special report prepared by the consultants on these subjects was submitted
to Minister Sumarlin, then Vice Chairman of BAPPENAS, in October 1979, two
months before the termination of the consultant's Phase IV contract.
3.06     Responding to a BAPPENAS request, Bank Group staff were at the same
time involved in a parallel examination of BAPPENAS's roles and procedures and
its organization. Similarly, Bank Group staff were reviewing GOI's overall
planning and budgeting procedures. Given the sensitivity of the issues
involved, a very senior consultant was employed by IDA more or less simul-
taneously, to help the Bank Group staff review the findings of the PAS
consultants and to discuss these findings with top management of BAPPENAS.
3.07     Bank Group staff prepared two reports; the first dealt with the
organizational structure and internal procedures of BAPPENAS, and the second
with the planning, programming and budgeting system of GOI. Their major
recommendations were:
(a)   Planning, programming and budgeting processes needed improvement with
emphasis on multi-year project planning;
(b)   A simplified DIP (budget) format and standard project document would
be useful tools for improving project planning, implementation and
monitoring. Ex-post evaluation of projects should be the principal
means of control;
(c)   Changed circumstances and an improved resource position for Indonesia
would require changes in the roles of BAPPENAS which should focus on
long-term development planning rather than project administration and
contract approvals; and
(d)   BAPPENAS had to increase the number of its staff to fulfill its
growing responsibilities adequately. There was also a need for
decentralized decision making in BAPPENAS.
Progress achieved and further improvements required
3.08     There has been satisfactory progress in streamlining the budget
process. Starting with its 1980/81 budget, the Government has adopted: (i) a
much simplified DIP format; /3 (ii) standardized project documentation; (iii)
ex-post project audit and evaluation; (iv) detailed prefinancing and
procurement arrangements for development projects.
/3 The new DIP format consists of three pages which compares to 7-9 pages was
the practice in the early 1970s.



- 10 -                ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 22
3.09     As mentioned above a new project monitoring system was set up in
1978/79. Implementation of the new system was made compulsory under the
Presidential Decree on the Budget for 1978/79, and the system has been in
operation since that time. However, it has not yet been of any significant
use for project implementation purposes. This is primarily due to shortage of
staff and lack of confidence in the system. Moreover data on projects are
forwarded to BAPPENAS with about six months delay and because of staff
shortages, the BAPPENAS unit cannot process the data promptly As a result,
BAPPENAS monitoring reports prepared in accordance with the established system
are sent to line agencies about a year after the first data input received by
BAPPENAS. By that time, most of the problems which were supposed to have been
identified and addressed expenditiously have found some sort of solution.
Thus, the line agencies have almost no confidence in the merit of the system,
and it is clear that further (and necessary) improvements can probably be
achieved only by GOI authorities. Top level management of BAPPENAS and line
agencies should consider issuing firm and detailed instructions to assure
closer and timely cooperation of all the agencies concerned to achieve fully
the objectives of the system.
3.10     It should be said that GOI's efforts in the last two years or so have
improved overall project implementation as measured by increasesd
disbursements. The annual disbursements for all Bank projects in Indonesia
were $278 million in FY80, $373 million in FY81 and $501 million in FY82.
Moreover, Indonesia has fewer "problem projects" compared to past years.
3.11     In contrast to this encouraging improvement in project implemen-
tation, progress in many aspects of GOI's planning and budgeting process is
yet to be seen. Noteable exceptions to this are the simplified DIP format,
the standardized project documentation, the ex-post visit and evaluation, and
centralized prefinancing and procurement arrangements referred to above. In
addition, BAPPENAS's internal procedures and organizational structure have not
improved.. The officials at higher levels have resisited recommendations for
reforms in these areas. The dialogue on medium- and long-term budgeting is,
however, still going on in some fashion between GOI and the Bank. There is
clear support from some BAPPENAS officials and the operating agencies for the
recommended reforms in planning and budgeting. But significant progress in
these areas requires a consensus within GOI on the positive impact that such
reforms will have on overall development efforts in Indonesia.
3.12     Regarding BAPPENAS's role in development administration and its
organizational structure, one positive development was to shift the main
responsibility for final approval of procurement contracts to a new committee
/4 established in 1980 under Presidential Decree No. 10. BAPPENAS's procure-
/4 Central Committee for the Procurement of Goods and Services for the
Government, composed of two Ministers and five high level officials from
the key Ministries concerned including a Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS.



- 11 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 22
ment function was thus reduced. Detailed procurement, prefinancing, and pay-
ment procedures were also regulated and published in the same year under
another Presidential Decree, No. 14A. Although no announcement has been made,
currrent practice indicates that BAPPENAS staff are more and more focussing on
policy and strategy aspects of development and relying on line agencies to
deal with the implementation of projects.
3.13     It was learned recently that the management of BAPPENAS has decided
to review its organizational structure with a view toward making it better
able to cope more effectively with its present responsibilities. This review
began in August 1982, and is, of course, an encouraging development. Another
indication of GOI's willingness to improve development administration is the
strong support of Minister Sumarlin, now Chairman of BAPPENAS, for the ongoing
study on overall GOI management improvement; this study will initially
concentrate on the management of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance and will
subsequently be extended to a review of the management problems of other
agencies and state enterprises. The Bank and several bilateral aid agencies
are providing assistance for this study. These efforts should contribute to
the Bank Group's on-going dialogue with GOI on overall development adminis-
tration.
3.14     With hindsight, it may be said that during the period from 1975 to
1980 when the PAS consultants and the Bank Group staff had worked on this
project, a more vigorous approach by the Bank Group could certainly have had
an impact on the speed, scope and quality of the changes made by GOI
authorities with regard to project monitoring, including planning and
budgeting processes. It must have been clear to all concerned that with about
120 staff, BAPPENAS could not fulfill all its responsibilities ranging from
project planning, preparation and financing to procurement, execution and
evaluation of contracts. Although Indonesia's overall economic progress has
been satisfactory in the past 10-12 years, improvements in development
administration along the lines recommended by PAS consultants and the Bank
Group staff could have enabled the country to accomplish more. Clearly, there
is still a role for the Bank Group to play in this important area, and our
efforts along these lines should continue.
4. Transmigration Preparation Team
4.01     This subproject was for the preparation of the First Transmigration
Project. It was subsequently transferred and charged to Loan 1318-IND (the
First Transmigration Project).
5. Advisory Services to Directorate General of Transmigration
Consultant           : Mr. R. Patten (USA)
Executing Agencies  : Directorate General of Transmigration - Ministry
of Transmigration and Cooperatives.
Amount                : US$173,668.00



- 12 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 22
5.01     Mr. R.H. Patten was selected to serve as an advisor to the
Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT), the Ministry of Manpower, Trans-
migration and Cooperatives, to assist DGT with any aspect of the final pre-
paration work for the transmigration area development project and with
devising suitable coordination arrangements with other departments and
agencies involved in the planning and implementation of the transmigration
programs. Mr Patten's services were originally for a six month period
beginning in early 1975. The Government requested an extension for an
additional two years through July 1977. This extension increased the original
allocation for the subproject from $30,000 to $180,000. The actual disbursed
amount was however $173,668.00 and the remaining balance was returned to the
unallocated portion of Credit 451-IND.
No Steering Committee was established.
6. Advisor to Bank Indonesia
Consultant           : Mr. R.K. Jones (USA)
Executing Agency    : Bank Indonesia
Amount               : US$88,435.28
6.01     This subproject was transferred to the Third Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 275-IND). See item No. 20 in the Project Completion Report on
Credit 275-IND.
7. Pre-investment Study for Community Education (PENMAS)
Consultant              Individual short-term experts from USA
Universities and Organizations
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Out-of-School Education
Youth and Sports (Ministry of Education and
Culture)
Amount               : US$61,994.40
7.01     This subproject was transferred to the Third Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 275-IND). See Item 21 in the Completion Report on that
Credit.



- 13 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 22
8. Jambi NES Project Preparation
Consultant           : Hunting Technical Services Ltd. in association with
the Commonwealth Development Corporation and
Peter Frankel & Partner (Asia) (UK)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Estates, Ministry of
Agriculture
Amount               : US$292,215.39
8.01     This subproject financed consulting services to prepare an
agricultural estate and smallholder development project in the Jambi province
in Sumatra.   The work progressed satsifactorily and constituted the basis for
the Bank financed NES II Project (Loan 1604-IND) for which a loan of $65
million was committed in FY78.
8.02     A Steering Committee was formed and it met regularly.  The objective
of the subproject was achieved.
9. Rice Intensification Study
Consultant           : Agrar and Hydrotechnik (Federal Republic of Germany)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Food Crops, Ministry of
Agriculture
Amount               :  US$21,824.71
9.01     The amount allocated under Credit 451-IND was subsequently charged to
Credit 275-IND when the latter was closed. Additional funds were also
allocated for this study under Credit 135-IND; only the balance was picked up
under Credit 275-IND. The details of this study are contained under Item 6 in
the Project Completion Report on Credit 135-IND.
10. West Java Transmission Study
Consultant           : Preece, Cardew & Rider Consulting Engineers (UK)
Executing Agency    : Perum Listrik Negara (PLN - National Power
Authority)
Amount               : US$455,516.71
10.01    This subproject financed consultancy services for the following
activities:
(a)   To review the existing planned network of West Java Transmission
System, including the City of Jakarta;
(b)   To review and check the existing work in progress;



-14 -                  ANNEX I
Page 9 of 22
(c)   To establish a reliable carrier communication and projection system
compatible with equipment furnished and installed under ongoing
projects;
(d)   To advise and assist in procurement activities.
(e)   To prepare technical specifications for the remaining equipment and
materials; and
(f)   To assist in bid evaluation and contract negotitions.
10.02    The Steering Committee which was established to supervise the work of
the consultants met several times and the objective of the subproject was
achieved. The Bank subsequently made two loans (Loan 1872-IND in FY80 and
Loan 2056-IND in FY82) to finance portins of the Java distribution and trans-
mission networks.
11. Hard Mineral Taxation Study
Consultant           : Harvard Institute for International Development
(HIID) (USA)
Executing Agency    : Ministry of Finance
Amount               : US$183,800.00
11.01    The objectives of the study were to identify the role of tax factors
in development of the mining sector in Indonesia and to suggest to the
Government policy options for reforming mining taxation and for improving tax
compliance by public and private mining companies. The scope of the study was
limited to minerals, exclusive of petroleum and natural gas.
11.02    The study focussed primarily on the effects of taxation on
exploration, exploitation, concentration, smelting and refining and covered
both public and private firms, including foreign enterprises. The consultants
also analyzed economic linkages between the mining sector and the rest of the
economy and examined the effects of taxes on incentives for exploration and
development activities as well as for cost minimization and processing. They
also made proposals for enhancing the internal capacity of the governmental
machinery, particularly in the Ministry of Finance, to administer and collect
mining taxes.
11.03    The study started in July 1976 and ended in January 1978 with an
extension of a few months so that the consultants could provide training on
minerals tax administration to Government officials. During their work, the
consultants were also requested by the Government to assist in devising
alternative measures for implementing the Presidential Decree of 1976 which
established guidelines for "third generation" mineral contracts.



- 15 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 22
11.04    The consultants kept close contact with the Bank Group and copies of
their reports were given to IDA.  It appears that the purpose of this study
was accomplished satisfactorily and the findings of the consultants have been
utilized by the Government to improve mineral taxation. The same consultants
are still employed under a contract funded from the Government budget for
further improvement in overall taxation efforts.
11.05    A Steering Committee was formed to review the progress of the study
and met several times.
12. Advisor to the Ministry of Finance
Consultant               : Mr. 0. Bus Henriksen (Denmark)
Executing Agency         : Ministry of Finance
Duration of Employment  : July 1976 - April 1977
Amount                   : US$49,417.51
12.01    Mr. Henriksen served on the Personal Expert Staff of the Minister of
Finance. His job was of a general nature, covering the entire range of
economic policy. Apart from assignments on specific issues, he was required
to prepare quarterly reports on the international economic outlook, on the
problems of the domestic economy and consequent policy options. He also
provided training to the staff of the Bureau of Planning and Research on
methods of analysis.
12.02    His terms of reference included specifically assistance in short-term
policy formulation and structural adjustments, including preparation of a
medium term tax program for the Directorate General of Taxes, Customs and
Excises and suggesting alternative courses of action designed to increase the
domestic tax base. He was also to prepare reports on the introduction of a
multi-year development budget aimed at strengthening the budgetary admini-
stration of development expenditures.
12.03    In addition to carrying out above responsibilities, Mr. Henricksen
was asked during his assignment to help the ministry of Finance compile
statistics on major export commodities of Indonesia and to forecast imports
for purposes of balance of payments projections. He was also involved in
making estimates for the Government budget, which was then a central issue.
12.04    A Steering Committee was formed but it never met.  Copies of
Mr. Henricksen's reports were given to the Bank Group. The view of the
officials of the Ministry of Finance is that Mr. Henricksen rendered useful
services to the Ministry of Finance in many of the above fields, sometimes reporting
directly to the Minister himself. More specifically, Mr. Henricksen



-16-                    ANNEX I
Page 11 of 22
played a key role in changing the methodology used to calculate the consumer
price index (CPI), with an increase from 62 to 120 in the number of com-
modities. The new CPI is being used to measure inflation in Indonesia. He
also prepared numerous papers which helped the Ministry of Finance estimate
State Budgets for fiscal years 1976/77 and 1977/78.
13. Aerial Photography for the Baturaja Transmigration Project
Consultant           :  BAKOSURTANAL (The National Mapping Agency)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Transmigration, Ministry
of Manpower, Transmigration and Cooperatives.
Amount               : US$15,000.00
13.01    This subproject was subsequently transferred to the Third Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 275-IND). Item No. 17 in the completion report on
Credit 275-IND includes the details.
14. Pemali Comal Feasibility Study
Consultant           :  Sanyu Consultant Inc. (Japan)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Water Resources,
Ministry of Public Works
Amount               : US$85,778.28
14.01    The objective of this study was to investigate alternatives for
providing additional water storage for dry season irrigation. The feasibility
study prepared under this subproject has been followed up through design
engineering financed under the Fifteenth Irrigation Project (Credit 995-IND).
This design engineering work is expected to result in a Bank financed project.
14.02    A Steering Committee was established and met regularly to review the
progress of the consultants work.
15. Fertilizer Plant Advisor
Consultant           : B.E.I.C.I.P. (Bureau L'Etudes Industrielles et de
Cooperation de L'Institut Fraincais du Petrole)
(France)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Basic Chemical Industries,
Ministry of Industry.
Amount               : US$513,469.49



- 17 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 22
15.01    This subproject was subsequently transferred to Credit 275-IND.
Further details of the report are contained in the Completion Report on Credit
275-IND. Please see Item No. 6 in that Project Completion Report.
16. Transport Planning Advisory Services
Consultant           :  Individually hired experts of various nationalities
Executive Agency    : Directorate of Planning, Ministry of Communications
and Tourism
Amount                : US$87,289.63
16.01    An amount of US$351,545.63 was disbursed for the bulk of these
advisory services under Credit 275-IND. The Project Completion Report on that
Credit includes details on the objectives of the subproject and the
contributions made by the advisors (see Item No. 8). From Credit 451-IND an
amount of US$87,289.63 was disbursed against a small balance of the services
involved.
16.02    No Steering Committee was established.
17.   Advisor to the Directorate General of Estates for Procurement
Consultant           : Mr. W. Bolle (Belgium)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Estates (DGE),
Ministry of Agriculture
Amount               : US$18,350.00
(an amount of US$61,354.00 was also disbursed
under Credit 275-IND for Mr. Bolle)
17.01    As reported in detail in the Project Completion Report for the Third
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 275-IND), Mr. Bolle helped DGE in
reviewing contracts. He also provided ad hoc services for staff training in
procurement matters.
17.02    No Steering Committee was established but Mr. Bolle submitted to IDA
concise information on his actual services to DGE. His work appears to have
been useful in expediting contract processing for estates projects for which
the Bank has made several loans.



- 18 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 22
18. Advisory Services to the Government
Consultant           : Mr. William C. Hollinger
Executing Agency    : Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS
Amount               : US$236,761.92   (for the same consultant an amount
of US$202,849.41 was disbursed under the Third
Technical Assistance Project - Credit 275-IND.
See Item No. 16 in the Project Completion
Report for Credit 275-IND)
18.01    Mr. W.C. Hollinger was employed as an advisor to the Government of
Indonesia on matters related to trade policies, balance of payments and
development of natural resources, as well as other ad hoc issues.
18.02    Mr. Hollinger was originally appointed for two years from June 1,
1974 to May 31, 1976. For this period, an amount of US$160,000 was allocated
which was later raised to US$250,000. His contract was, however, extended
twice, first for one year from June 1, 1976 to May 31, 1977 and second time
for two years from June 1, 1977 to May 31, 1979, for which a total of
US$212,000 was allocated.
18.03    A Steering Committee was formed to supervise the work of
Mr. W.C. Hollinger but the Committee never met. However, during his five year
service, Mr. Hollinger prepared many memoranda and reports on various
subjects, includeding:
- The relevance of export tax relief under current market conditions,
- Notes towards an energy policy,
- Promoting Indonesia's mineral industry (this paper was prepared jointly
with Prof. Sumitro and Dr. Zen),
- Profit margins in the steel industry as they affect planning for
Krakatau,
- Lessons of OPEC for other commodities from the Indonesian point of view,
- The Indonesian rubber industry,
- Assessment of the feasibility of copper market Arrangements,
- Framework for copra policy,
- Olefin project (contract of work versus joint venture, Dow Proposal),
- Subregional groupings: their role and relationship with ECAFE,
- ECAFE and multilateral corporations,
- Bintan alumina project.
Copies of these reports were given to the Bank Group.



- 19 -                 ANNEX I
Page 14 of 22
18.04    Most of the above reports concerned subjects of interest for the Bank
Group. Particularly, the views expressed by Mr. Hollinger in his reports
relating to export tax relief, and energy policy were in line with those in
the Industry and Energy Sector Reports prepared two years later by Bank Group
staff. An earlier and closer follow up by Bank Group staff on Mr. Hollinger's
recommendations could have probably persuaded the Government to take earlier
decisions on these matters. The Government eventually removed some export
taxes and formulated clear energy policy objectives, moving away from oil to
non-oil energy resources, for electricity generation as recommended by
Mr. Hollinger.
19. Advisory Services by Mr. A.K. Pickering
Consultant           : Mr. A.K. Pickering
Executing Agency    : Ministry of Manpower & Transmigration,
Ministry of Home Affairs and BAPPENAS
AMOUNT               : US$136,240.62
19.01    Terms of Reference of Mr. Pickering included responsibilities in
several sectors such as employment planning, rural development and environ-
mental protection. More specifically, he was to assist with the INPRES
Reforestation Program, Kabupaten Development Program and the Training for
Regional Development. In the INPRES Reforestation Program his role was to
assist an interministerial team with the coordination and development of
scientific and technical research, the development of a village firewood
program, paratechnical training for field workers, decentralization of the
program and the development of an effective organization within the Ministry
of Manpower and Transmigration for forecasting village labor availability.
For the Kabupaten Development Program, Mr. Pickering was to continue his
assistance to the Indonesian National Team working on an ILO international
study on public works programs and, if requested, he was also to undertake
field studies and make recommendations for modernizing kabupaten budgeting
systems, including the introduction of maintenance budgeting. With respect to
Training for Regional Development, Mr. Pickering was to assist in the
upgrading of staff at all provinicial and kabupaten levels and in the prepa-
ration of Indonesian case studies in planning at the local level which had
begun in 1975.
19.02    Given the general aspects of the above jobs and the absence of any
future investment project likely to result from them, the approval of IDA was
given reluctantly to this subproject. The strong request made by Minister
Sumarlin, then Vice Chairman of BAPPENAS, influenced IDA's decision.
19.03    Although the work of Mr. Pickering covered several areas of interest
for the Bank Group, copies of his reports were not submitted to IDA. A
Steering Committee was established to supervise his work but the Committee



- 20 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 22
met only twice and only after repeated requests by the Resident Staff in
Jakarta. Mr. Pickering was not present at these meetings. The Indonesian
Chairman of the Steering Committee held the view that Mr. Pickering had made
several recommendations for organizational changes for the INPRES Refore-
station Program which were not consistent with his terms of reference. It was
apparent that senior GOI officials were unhappy with the work of
Mr. Pickering, and almost nothing was achieved under this subproject.
20. Study of Rail Transportation Bukit Asam
Consultant           :  Canadian Pacific Consultancy Services Ltd.
Executing Agency    : PJKA (State Railways Company)
Amount               : US$137,508.47
20.01    This subproject provided for the preinvestment study for Bukit Asam
coal exploration, specifically in the field of rail transportation facilities.
The objective of the study was:
(a)   To update the proposal for rehabilitation/utilization of track,
locomotive power, and rolling stock along the rail route from the
mine site to nearest town;
(b)   To prepare the preliminary design and estimates for capital and
operating costs for rail transport; and
(c)   To devise an implementation and construction/rehabilitation schedule
and propose management assistance.
20.02    The results of this study were used during the project preparation of
the Bukit Asam Coal Development and Transport Project for which the Bank made
in a loan of $185 million (Loan 2079-IND) in FY82. A Steering Committee was
formed and met several times.
21. Batam Industrial Development Project
Consultant           : CRUX (USA)
Executing Agency    : BAPPENAS/Batam Industrial Development Authority
(BIDA)
Amount               : US$166,811.03
21.01    In April 1977 GOI requested IDA's approval to allocate a sum of
US$1,060,000.00 to finance consultancy services to prepare TOR for the
development of the Batam Island and to assist the Government in a study for
the development of an industrial estate at Cilegon. Several issues



- 21 -                 ANNEX I
Page 16 of 22
emerged during the review of the Government's proposal. Finally, the
Government agreed to reduce the size of its request to $175,000.00. The
Cilegon Industrial Estate component was dropped from the study. The
consultants' services thus included:
(a)   BIDA's investment plans,
(b)   Construction design, logistics of material flows,
(c)   Externalities, i.e. environmental, financial, operational and
administrative matters,
(d)   Land use plan,
(e)   Assisting BIDA in management matters.
21.02    A Steering Committee was established for this subproject chaired by
one of BAPPENAS' Deputy Chairman. The Committee met several times and it
found the first report of the consultants unsatisfactory. The consultants
produced a revised report which was in general adequate. Subsequently,
greater efforts were made by the Government to develop the Batam Island. It
is not clear to what extent the work of the Crux consultants has been used by
the Government in furtherance of the Batam Island development program.
22. Sunda Strait Current Wave Study
Consultant           : Decca Survey Australia Ltd.
Executing Agency    : PN Tambang Batubara (state-owned mining company)
Amount               : US$180,000.00
22.01    This subproject was approved to finance consultants' services for
survey and study of current waves in the Sunda Strait. The objective was to
find out whether the coal to be produced at Bukit Asam in South Sumatra and
shipped by railways to the southern tip of Sumatra could be safely transported
by ship to West Java for use in a power plant built at Surabaya. A Steering
Committee, established in accordance with the requirements of the Credit
Agreement, was chaired by an official of the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
The Steering Committee found the findings of the consultants useful, which
were subsequently followed up under Loan S-9 (Engineering Loan) for the
preparation of the Bukit Asam Coal Development and Transport Project. The
Bank made a loan of $185 million in FY82 for this Coal Project (Loan
2079-IND).



- 22 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 17 of 22
23. Saguling Hydro Power Feasibility Study
Consultant           : The New Japan Engineering Consultant (NEWJEC -
Japan)
Executing Agency    : Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN - National
Power Authority)
Amount               : US$114,704.52
23.01    The objective of this subproject was to finance consultants' services
for additional topographic and geological survey activities to complete the
Saguling Hydro Power Project preparation (Project preparation work was funded
substantially under Credit 399-IND (Third Power Project).A Steering Committee
was formed to supervise the subproject which met regularly, as needed. IDA
received copies of the consultants' reports. In FY81 the Bank made a loan of
$250 million to finance the Saguling Hydro Project (Loan 1950-IND).
24. Advisory Services
24.01    This subproject concerns Mr. W.C. Hollinger and has been combined in
this report with Item No. 18 above.
25. Rural Development
Consultant           : Mr. Gauchon (Secondment from FAO) and
Mr. T.E. Cobbald (UK)
Executing Agency    : BAPPEDA of Yogyakarta (Regional Planning Board)
Amount               : US$27,956.74
25.01    This subproject provided for the preinvestment study of the
Yogyakarta Rural Development Project for which IDA made a credit of $12
million in FY80. The objective of the subproject was therefore achieved.A
Steering Committee was formed and met several times. (Consultants' services
to prepare a detailed project implementation program for the Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project were subsequently funded in a separate subproject under
this credit. See item 30 in this Annex).



- 23 -                 ANNEX I
Page 18 of 22
26. North Sumatra Transport Project Preparation
Consultant           : BCEOM (France)
Executing Agency    : Planning Directorate, Ministry of Communications
and Tourism
Amount               : First phase  - $455,450.10
Second phase - $112,644.62
(The second phase is not yet complete, the ongoing
work is being financed under Credit 898-IND)
26.01    The objective of the first phase of the study was to define a
feasible package of investments, employing appropriate technology, to meet the
transport requirements of plantations, particularly for export of palm oil
through 1990 at the least capital and operating costs. The second phase study
was to prepare detailed engineering requirements to establish systems, refine
cost estimates, prepare plans and drawings, and draft tender documents. From
Credit 451-IND, $350,000 was allocated for the first phase and $400,000 for
the second phase but actual disbursements under Credit 451-IND on account of
the first phase study amounted to $455,450.10.
26.02    The first phase started in May 1979.  The interim report of the
consultants was submitted to IDA in October 1979. Upon receipt of the final
report of the consultants, IDA staff proposed revised TOR for the second phase
study. As a result, cost estimates for this phase of the study were much
higher than the original estimates. The new estimates were about $3.5
million, compared to $400,000 originally contemplated. During the review of
the draft contract, the Ministry of Communications and Tourism proposed some
changes in the scope of the work which resulted in a reduction in the cost
estimates. As of February 1981, the foreign exchange component of cost
estimates was about $2.2 million. The Government asked IDA to allocated $1.3
million from Credit 898-IND which would cover about 60% of the foreign
exchange cost. The remainder would be met from the carry over funds (SIAP)
from the budget of the Ministry of Communications and Tourism which were
substantial in that year. IDA concurred and the consultants (BECOM) started
work on the second phase study in May 1981.
26.03    A Bank Group mission reviewed the work of the consultants in
August 1981. It agreed with the authorities concerned (including the regional
government of North Sumatra) that, as recommended in the just completed Bank
Transportation Sector Study, there was a clear need to improve regional
transport planning and systems management. As a result TOR for the
consultants ought to be amended. 30 man-months could be allocated to regional
analysis and transport planning and another 30 man-months to highway planning
and design. A schedule was worked out for the completion of these additional
activities. The consultants continued their work and the progress was
reviewed by another Bank mission in November 1981. The mission concluded that



- 24 -                  ANNEX I
Page 19 of 22
the work of the consultants had not produced for any satisfactory economic and
financial data to test the soundness of the proposed investments. The
consultants agreed to look into these areas but their report submitted in June
1982 contained serious deficiencies. Government authorities and Bank staff
concluded that BCEOM consultants should stop their work because there was no
hope that they could come up with a satisfactory analysis of the economic
factors. At a joint IDA/Government review meeting held in August 1982, it was
agreed that no case could be made for the Bank Group to support the North
Sumatra Transportation Project. The Bank dropped this project from its five-
year lending program.
26.04    The Government decided that for the transportation of palm oil in
North Sumatra, utilization of railways would be the most practical, although
admittedly a suboptimal, approach. Thus, they decided to rehabilitate the
existing railways. The required rolling stock had already been ordered in any
case under an export credit. However, in order not to exceed the then
prevailing FOB price of palm oil after railways rehabilitation, they agreed to
ask the consultants (BCEOM), under revised TOR, to analyze the economic and
financial consequences of railways rehabilitation. The funds remaining
undisbursed ($890,000) from the $1.3 million allocated under Credit 898-IND
for this subproject would be utilized to finance these additional services.
IDA disbursements would cover 63% of the foreign exchange cost. As of the
writing of this report, the consultants had not yet completed their work.
26.05    A Steering Committee was formed to supervise the execution of this
project. It was convened several times and IDA representatives attended the
meetings.
26.06    Despite the size of the investment in this subproject, its achieve-
ments were minimal. Neither the Government or the Bank took action early
enough to reduce the expenditures, or to ensure that the subproject's
objectives were met. In the preparation of the original TOR, Bank staff did
not pay adequate attention to the economic and financial factors to be
investigated; the consultants were not asked to address all the relevant
issues and their work was not adequately supervised by Bank staff.
27. NES III Project Preparation
Consultant              PT Dian Utama in association with Booker
Agriculture Internationa Ltd. (UK)
Executing Agency        Team Khusus, Directorate General of Estates,
Ministry of Agriculture
Amount                  US$84,479.60



- 25 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 20 of 22
27.01    This subproject was apporoved by IDA to finance the services of the
consultants to prepare a nucleus estate and smallholder rubber development
project (NES) for possible Bank financing. In fact, the preinvestment study
completed by the consultants became the basis for the NES III Project
currently financed under Loan 1751-IND. Consequently the objective of the
study was accomplished. No Steering Committee was established.
28. Natural Gas Pricing and Associated Gas Study
Consultants          :  Gaffney and Cline (UK)
Executing Agency    : Directorate Geneal of Gas and Oil (MIGAS),
Ministry of Mines and Energy
Amount               : US$200,000.00
28.01    The objective of the study was to investigate the cost of supplying
natural gas to the Java steel works and to the major industrial users in
Sumatra, and to look into the prospects for future LNG supplies. Based on the
results of these investigations, the consultants were to recommend pricing
policies which would encourage future investment. They were also to examine
the quantities of associated gas likely to be produced in future years and to
ivestigate uses for the wasted gas.
28.02    The consultants completed their interim report in 1981 and copies
were made available to IDA. The comments of IDA staff were communicated to
MIGAS. While some parts of the report were found deficient, Government
authorities agreed with the pricing proposals. Following a review of these
proposals by the Energy Coordinating Board (BAKOREN), a recommendation was
submitted in November 1981 to the President which would increase the price of
natural gas to about $3.0 MBTU from about $0.65 MBTU. The President has not
approved this recommendation. The Report (Indonesia: Issues and Options in
the Energy Sector) prepared in late 1981 as a joint UNDP/IBRD report
(No. 3543-IND) included a similar suggestion to increase the price of natural
gas.
28.03    A Steering Committee was established to supervise this subproject and
it met several times.
29. Coconut Disease Survey
Consultant              Institute de Recherches pour les Huiles et
Oleagineauc (IRHO) (France)
Executing Agency    : Director General of Estates, Ministry of
Agriculture
Amount               : US$20,000.00



- 26-                  ANNEX 1
Page 21 of 22
29.01    This subproject provided short-term consultancy services for research
into diseases affecting coconut hybride and their control. The purpose of the
study was to ascertain predisposing factors, identify, if possible, the causal
agents, and propose measures to prevent the spread of disease. Although no
Steering Committee was established, the results of the survey were found
satisfactory by the Government and IDA and they were taken into account during
preparation at the Smallholder Coconut Development Project (Loan 1898-IND -
FY81).
30. Yogyakarta Rural Development Project
Consultant           : Mr. T. Aragon, SGV & CO. (Philippines)
Executing Agency    : BAPPEDA of Yogyakarta
Amount               : US$40,000.00
30.01    This subproject was approved, in response to a GOI request, to
finance the short-term consultancy services for preparation of a detailed
project implementation program for the Yogyakarta Rural Development Project
currently financed under Credit 946-IND. The consultants were required to
assist BAPPEDA in the preparation of procedures for technical guidance and
general supervision needed for implementing this project.
30.02    Despite the request by IDA, the Government did not establish any
Steering Committee to supervise this subproject. Implementation of the
Yogyakarta Rural Development Project (Credit 946-IND) has been slow; the
assistance provided by the consultants apparently had no significiant impact
on project execution.
31. Village Development
Consultant           : Mr. Raeburn (USA)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General of Village Development,
Ministry of Home Affairs
Amount                  US$31,344.00
31.01    The purpose of this subproject was to finance preparation of a
proposed Village Development Project. The consultant continued his work on
project preparation to some extent and language training was also provided to
the staff of the Directorate General of Village Development of the Ministry of
Home Affairs. But due to lack of support for the project from some Government
agencies, particuarly by BAPPENAS, the consultant was asked to discontinue his
service and the project was dropped from the Bank's five-year lending program.



- 27-                  ANNEX 1
Page 22 of 22
31.02    The original allocation made under Credit 898-IND was of the order of
$200,000.00. Actual disbursements for the work done by the consultant until
his services were terminated, amounted to $31,344.00 which was subsequently
charged to Credit 451-IND when this Credit was closed.
31.03    A Steering Committee was established and met several times.
32. Rural Roads Study
Consultant           : ENEX Consortium 346 (New Zealand)
Executing Agency    : Directorate General Cipta Karya, Ministry of
Public Works
Amount               : US$807,854.94
32.01    The objective of this study was to prepare a rural roads project for
Bank financing. This was accomplished and in FY82, the Bank made a loan of
$100.0 million (Loan 2083-IND) to finance the project.
32.02    Originally the Government requested an allocation of $700,000 under
Credit 451-IND for this study; this was subsequently raised to $800,000.
Actual disbursements however exceeded the latter amount due to additional
applications received from the Government. Out of the total actual disburse-
ments, $807,854.94 was charged to Credit 451-IND and the balance to Credit
898-IND; the account of the subproject financed by Credit 898-IND has not yet
been closed.
32.03    A Steering Committee was established but did not meet regularly.
33. North Sumatra Transport Phase II
Consultant           : BCEOM (France)
Executing Agency    : Directorate of Planning, Ministry of Communications
and Tourism
Amount               : US$112,644.62
33.01    This subproject was approved to finance the second phase of the North
Sumatra Transportation Project Preparation Study for which detailed
information has been given under subproject No. 26 above.



- 28 -                       ANNEX 2
IDA CREDIT NO. 451-IND
FOURTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Subproject No.                           Name                  Amount disbursed
1.    Advisor to Bank Indonesia                                  139,384.73
2.    Steel Advisor for BAPPENAS (G. Carson)                           0.00*
3.    Project Monitoring Control & Information System            762,823.17
4.    Transmigration Project Preparation Team                          0.00*
5.    R. Patten                                                  173,668.00
6.    Advisor to Bank Indonesia (R.K. Jones)                           0.00*
7.    Penmas Technical, Advisor Education                              0.00*
8.    Jambi Project Preparation                                  292,215.39
9.    Rice Intensification Study                                       0.00*
10.    West Java Transmission Study                               455,516.71
11.    Fiscal Policy Study-Hard Mineral Sector                    183,800.00
12.    Advisor to Ministry of Finance (Henriksen)                  49,417.51
13.    Topograph Map - Baturaja Transmigration                          0.00*
14.    Pemali Comal Feasibility Study                              85,778.28
15.    Fertilizer Plant Advisor                                         0.00*
16.    Transport Planning Advisory Study                           87,289.63
17.    Procurement Advisor (Bolle)                                 18,350.00
18.    Government Advisor (W.C. Hollinger)                         33,205.25
19.    National Development Planning Study (A.K. Pickering)   136,240.62
20.    Bukit Asam Coal Rail Transportation Study                  137,508.47
21.    Batam Industrial Development Authority (Crux)              166,811.03
22.    Sunda Strait Current-Wave Study                            180,000.00
23.    Saguling Hydro Power                                       114,704.52
24.    Advisory Services (W.C. Hollinger)                         203,556.69
25.    Yokyakarta Rural Development Project                        27,956.74
26.    Combined Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering    455,450.10
27.    NES III Preparation                                         84,479.60
28.    Gas Pricing Study                                          200,000.00
29.    Coconut Disease Survey                                      20,000.00
30.    Yogyakarta Rural Development Project SVT & Co.              40,000.00
31.    Village Development                                         31,344.00
32.    Rural Roads                                                807,854.94
33.    North Sumatera Transport                                   112,644.62
TOTAL                  $5,000,000.00
* Originally allocated under the Credit 451-IND, but transferred to Credit 275-IND
Third Technical Assistance.



- 29 -                       ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
Major Subproject Categories Financed under Cr. 451-IND
Policy and Institution Oriented                                       Allocation
in US$
1.  Project Monitoring, planning and Budgeting (PAS)                  762,823.17*
2.  Fiscal Policy Study (Hard Mineral Sector/Harvard Group)           183,800.00
3.  Advisor Ministry of Finance (Mr. Henriksen)                        49,417.51
4.  Transport Planning Advisory Study (Individuals)                      8,289.63*
5.  Procurement Advisor (Mr. Bolle)                                    18,350.00
6.  Advisory Services to Government (Mr. Hollinger)                   236,761.94*
7.  Nat. Gas Pricing Study (Gaffney and Clive)                        200,000.00
8.  National Development Planning Study (Mr. Pickering)                136,240.62
9.  Batam Island Development Study (Cruks)                            166,811.03
10.  Advisory Services for Transmigration Program (Mr. Patten)         173,668.00
Total                       2,015,161.90
Complex or Innovative Project/Programs Oriented                       Allocation
in US$
1.  Advisor to Bank Indonesia for KIK/KMKP (Mr. Boucherie)            139,384.73*
2.  Jambi Project Preparation (Hunting Consultants)                   292,215.39
3.  West Java Transmission Lines Study (PCR of UK)                    455,516.71*
4.  Pemali Comal Feasibility Study (Sanyu Consultants)                 85,778.28
5.  Bukit Asam Coal Railways Study (Canadian Pacific)                 137,508.47*
6.  Sunda Strait Current-Wave Study (Decca Survey)                    180,000.00
7.  Saguling Hydro Power (Newjec)                                     114,704.52*
8. Yogyakarta Rural Development Project Preparation
(SGV and Gauchon)                                                67,956.74
9.  North Sumatra Transportation Project Preparation (BCEOM)          568,094.72*
10.  NES III Project Preparation (P.T. Dian Utama)                      84,479.60
11.  Coconut Disease Survey (IRHO of France)                            20,000.00
12.  Village Development Project Preparation (Mr. Raeburn)              31,344.00
13.  Rural Roads Project Preparation (ENEX of New Zealand)             807,854.94*
Total            2,984,838.10
*    These amounts exclude those which were allocated from other loans or
technical assistance credits.



