CREIT NUMBER . i JND
Development Credit
Agreement
(F,ourth Technical Assist;nice Project)
BLlEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED  \Io -f t - ',(., 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREIMENT, dnted    yg s        .  , 19/1, helweenl RPUllLIC 01'
INDONESIA     (liereinafter  called  Ilie  lonower)  and  NT iRNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereincfer ealled the Association).
ARTICL[ l
General Conditions; Special Definition
Sectionl  1.01. Tile  parties  (o  tils A,ieeii,iii accepl all Ilie  provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable (o                 Ovevelopmen  (redil Agreemeais of the
Association, dated January 3 l, 19, with fie s:11ie lore anlld effeet as if they
were fully set fortlh herein (s;id (;eleral Conditons Applicable 1o I)evelopment
Credit Agreements of* the Associiion hemy heremialtel called the General
Conditions).
Sectionl 1.02. Unless the colte\t oAl:erwise reiires, the following term,
wherever used in the I)evelopniiiii Credit Afieeei, has lie following meaning:
"sub-projeCt' ineans a pailrtila suidy oi piojee lt  lchnial assistance to be
financed out of the proceeds of tlie Credit, as deseribed in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTI11CLE1 Il
5he  §edi
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to ike available to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Development  tt Agreenent set fortfh or referred
to, a developient eredit in an atoint i v.irno  currencies equivalent to five
million dollars ($5,000,000).
Seetion 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account in the name
of the Borrower and shall credit to such Credit Aceount the amount of the Credit.
(b)   The amouffl otf the (red it mav hie Iw  it hud 1 iwi f,1o.1 lie Credit Aceoint
as provided in, and subject lo tie nty1s of  lnell<n and sispensioni set forth
in, this Agreement and the Genernl Conditions and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit agreed bet ween the Borrower and the Association
pursuan1t  to  Seetion  3.02  oj  tlus ( \Ii em,eul


﻿4
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be L'Inilled to willdraw froi the Credit
Account n al   ount equal tn sih perciI J10 .1 Cmen IMes as shall be agreed
from time to time between (lie Burrowe' MIan  the Association of .such am1onLIts
as shall have been paid (or if the Association shall so agree, as shall be required
to meet payments to be manR) at1'r the dle (d Iihs Apreenient for lie reasoiable
cost of good" ah d services       h eqiMe l 111  i  i111)   MIecs, pilVLd, however,
that total withdrawals from  the ( 'reidl AcLoun1t 1J1al not exceed eighty-five per
cent (85'; ) of the aggregate ol 1uLWh Costs.
Section 2.04. The Uorrower shall pay to lie Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (314 of I', ) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit witlididwii and ouishiiinp til time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October I5 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the prinJpal of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account in semu] i-annual installnents payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April I5, 1984 md ending October I5, 2023, each
installment to and including the inskilullmien payable LOin October I5, 1993 to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of I 'T) of such principal am1oun t, and each installment
thereafter to be one and onch hlf per cnt ( I I  ) of Such pilncipal aiount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is specified for
the purposes of' Section 4.02 of tlie General Conitiions.
AlTICL[ Ill
Descriplion of hIlie Project, Use 4 Priceeds of Ilie Credit
Section 3.01. The Project or which the CCredit is grated Ls  .ts in the
carrying out of high-priority studies and othel projecls of techim-ial Issistance,
designed to assist the Borrower in the planninii ,il iplcnentation of its programs
of economic development and rehabilitation mnd selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The pu)Wrp.os1s and scopc ofI cdh sut-projcct, thei methods f*or
implementation thereof' and the specif'ic allocation thereto of proceeds of* the Credit
shall be determined by agreemient between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall apply ftle proceeds of tle Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclusively to expenditures on
the Project.


﻿5
Section 3.04. Contracts made by tlie iorower I'or consultants' services and
for the purciase of equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be subjeel to Ihe i)rior aplovivl flhe Aso ilin
Sectioil 3.05. Vxcepl s he [l o     ;1we  and lie Asseemlien shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall catise alt gods iI.eed oufl o te )roeets of the Credit
to be used exelsively in lhe l anikr out l hlie i0 unel.
ARTICLE IV
Partieular Covenanls
Section 4.01. The Borrower siall cause eachi s ub-prioject to be carried out
with diue diligence and elicieny and shll mke av-lable, propy111)iY as needed,
all funds, 1'aeilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) For tie purpose of' carryin  e  i eaeti sub-project, the
Borrower siall emlipløy quahled and eIsueed cosnilants acceplable to Ilhe
Borrower and tlhe Associalion, to ihe e.x tenlt l equdedt, and (1on lenns atid conlditions,
including terms of ref'erence, pproved by Ilte Borrower and tile Association.
(b)   In respect of sub-pojects there shiall be   naintainled  steeriig
commIllittees, Caea consisling of a ejaesein el tu li' nowes as ('hirman, a
represenlalivt, of Oie Assoeialion and, ihe lioisowesi  lihe Associalion shll
so> agree, additional mlsemlbers ()iephesenaives tl  th's enwies concerned with
particular sub-projects.
(c)   The steering comitlee mamiiii eit  ee  sub>-pro'<kjec1 shall be
respon.sible for selecting services, equip)ient and supplies and directing their use
for such sub-project, supervising and tiiielin tl e w  ( ) i  1he costiltanIs eiployed
therefor, reconmmending m)idiealions ol lsen le s ei ieeee r øler ter s
and   cond itiois  of theii en p lo isne nt, lind i  ev iew sm y  ti he  reports  and
recommendations of suchl consutaanIts.
(d)   Thle Borrower-1, siall Celweaie lutlly wsIhs lihe Coisultalls in tlhe
performance   f tlheir services f'or tie iroleet - ad iake availi,ble to them all
information relevant to the Projeet
(e)   The Borrower slhali not amend or waive any of tlhe terms andit1 conditions
of enployment of the consultantis emnployed for any sub-prejeet, or grant any
material extension of time mr anly approval oi suib unraels or modifiCations
thereof, or subsliution fnh, f                         or stsspend paymlienuls
under, or terininate, any contat with sh costuiltants witholt tle prior agreement


﻿of the Association, acting fhrmigh the steeriig coiminittee coicerned with the
sub-project.
Section 4.03. (a) The li()Irr)WCI' sihall caUSC consuiliitns emiployed for the
Project promptly to furnish the Associatioii copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, includiiij, poits anii(l . i1d  nAlIS thiVC0of, in suc notIIIhl'er as the
Associatioii shall reasonably eqUes.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall fronm tiime to time exchange
views with respect to the evalaI tion ai(l iimpleimiinitioii of the recominendatiois
and other conclusions Conilinked ill tie doci1.nwnIs wclic(rd ho ill n the foregoing
paragraph (a).
(c)   The Borrower shall niitai i 0o  cause to be imailltaiied records
adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit, and to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect any records and documents relevant to the Project,
including records and documents which the coiisutiaiints enployed by the Borrower
shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Project; and shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning tlie expeiidilure of the procceeds of the Credit
and the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Iorrower and fte Associalioln shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes ofl' the ('(edit will be accoiiplisled.  To that end, eaci
of them shall furnish to the other all sLIch1 inforimation as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and (lie Associatimi siall fron liic to tiine exchange
views through their representatives with regaild o intalters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the mainICtnIance of the C vWie IthCR-of. The 1lorrower shall
promptly inform   the Associanoi oh any <onidlioii which in1terIe.s with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accopil)fisiMInIent of the Ipurposes of the Credit or
the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall allord all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿Section  1.05. Tie  prineiiiiii of  mid  semivie  ( hiires  on, Ihe  ('redil sha,ill be
paid witliout deduetion lo, unl dlee  ioin, *I\ (ases iImposed inde (lie laws of
the Borrower or laws in elTeet in its terntories.
Seetion 4.06. The l)evelomeniit (redit Aleement sall be Iree from any
taxes on or in connection witi fie e\ceii in devierv or registration thereof,
imposed nde  lie laws of tliev iwei us hm ,     elleet m  its territories.
Seetion 4.07. The payimeii ol the prma,pa  mt sikl service eliarges on, the
Credit shall be free from all resiie1ons, meouani, i.hols and moratoria of
any nature iipposed under the laws ol the bl lowei ol LIws in elTeel in its
territories.
ARTICLE: V
Remedies
Section  5.01, Il an1y  e\en t ser itled  m  Seelei  '101 ol the (elleral ( onditions
or in Seetion 5.0'. of this Agreementii  sliall oxem ,ni siall contijne for the period,
if any, tHeICII1 Se( lofIIh, fh lk 1n1 mshp lu, 11 111,dihmu fhficonua
thlereol,  thle  A oca n,at  1[,  opionmi   d1,\  k  I t,  1h,  pu1111)1 op l  li h C(redlit
theni  oultstanding  to  be  duc  and  pa yable 1nIm'll,ti.lh   to,etele  with  tile service
charges thercon, and upon any sieli declaration sieli principal and service charges
sliall becoie due and papyble i111editK  n' 1  mlw, ih Ilie Developimeill Credit
Agreeient to Ilie contirary notwithstandi
Seeholi  J)?.  '4io  lic  popo  it  '0 ins  I  l  lhi k ( ;c1ec.l (Cg'i iions,
the  following  addkitionail L-e 1ve .  pek il ed, li,anc t al .1  dklaK i  ll  ha111,v1e ockcurred
in the peroniiiunce ol any ubigin on tlie p,11 et1 (lic lBorrowei under the
developnient credit agreetei (I,t eliuiiiil Assi Prwnce Prlet) dated I)ecember 27,
1968,  the  dlevelopieniiit  credi( at  ''21 em t  (Sectwind  1, elinicl Assisnince  Project)
dated September 15, 1970, or Ilie developinelt (ed it igreelieint (l'hird Technical
Assistance Projeet) dated I)ecember 29. 1971, all betv.: en the Borrower and the
Associaition.
AR'I ICLI VI
E"ff'ectiveness
Section 6.01. The date -M.     k , t , , is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of' the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLI VII
Miscellancous
Section 7.01. The Closing Dale sliall be December 3 1, 1976 or sucil other
date as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minisie of Finan.Ice of, tie Borrowert is designated for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of tlie General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The followi  athlress,- :ne specified lor 1lhe p1rposes of
Section 9.01 of (lie GeneraIl Ciditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of' Finance
Post Office Box '1
Jakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address foi cables:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
InternationJl Developient Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States o1 America
Allernatlive addiess fir cables.
INDiVAS
Washingfon, D.(.
IN  WITNESS    WillIRIOF , tie  parties liereto, acting  through  their
representatives thereunto duly autliorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿4q
Agi'ectite it  (o  Wc  signet.  in  Ifik-ii  ik-lpck (i\,  11.11m0  ,  lod|  1, , 11,  m|Í\ le i   (|he  l)lsh 11,1
of Columbi0a, Oled! State.s ol Aieui,ti i, x ojffi,a tli\n ind yv,m  1s1 above willtenl.
c ~RIU(BIM O((l- INbO()NVSI.\
i>ii)v:ed /\X'>resLeInatil>e
IN I l.RNA l lON. L  1)1 \ I L()PMI NI A  SO ATION
Kml          <     ·i<i


