Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2404-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION PROJECT
November 1, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =  B 20.40
B 1          =  US$0.049
B 1,000,000  =  US$490,020
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)    -  2.47 acres (ac)
6.25 rai
1 liter (1)       -  0.26 gallons (gal)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAC   -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE    - Department of Agricultural Extension
EGAT   -  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
IEAT   -  Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFCT   -  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MWWA   - Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NGOT   - Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
O&M    -  Operation and Maintenance
PEA    -  Provincial Electricity Authority
RID    - Royal Irrigation Department
RTG    - Royal Thai Government
TOT    -  Telephone Organization of Thailand
UNDP   - United Nations Development Fund
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
THAILAND: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:    Royal Irrigation Department
Amount:          $17.5 million equivalent
Term:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.35% p.a.
Project
Description:  The project will allow year-round irrigation in Northeast
Thailand on about 51,300 hectares which are now largely
limited to a single crop of rainfed rice for subsistence.
Approximately 21,000 farm families, about 90% of whom have
incomes below the poverty line, will benefit, with incomes
expected to quadruple by full development in 1991. The
project will tap the potential of two existing reservoirs (Lam
Pao and Lam Takhong) through the construction or improvement
of diversion dams, main, lateral and tertiary canals, drains,
and facilities. Consultants will be employed to assist in
project implementation, to monitor benefits and to prepare
future projects. The project faces no special risks, although
realization of expected benefits will depend ond the pace with
which farmers adopt improved technologies made possible by the
reliable water supply.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                          ----- $ million -----
Local  Foreign  Total
Civil works                         24.4    17.6    42.0
Equipment                            0.1      3.2      3.3
Buildings                            0.4      0.1      0.5
Right-of-way                          1.5     0.0      1.5
Consulting services                  1.2      2.9      4.1
Engineering and administration    4.2         0.8      5.0
Base cost                      31.8    24.6    56.4
Physical contingencies               3.8      3.4      7.2
Price contingencies                  9.4      7.0    16.4
Total cost               45.0    35.0    80.0
Financing Plan:                                          ----- $ million -----  % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Total
Government                          45.0        0    45.0    56
IFAD                                   0    17.5    17.5    22
Bank                                   0    17.5    17.5    22
Total                          45.0    35.0    80.0   100
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:                     ----------------- $ million ------------------
Bank FY:  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual          0.12   1.28   2.80   3.80   4.00   3.50   2.00
Cumulative      0.12   1.40   4.20   8.00  12.00  15.50  17.50
Rate of Return:      25%
Appraisal Report: No. 1901-TH, dated October 17, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE SECOND NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $17.5 million to help finance
the Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years' grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has recently
approved a loan of $17.5 million to help finance the project on a joint basis.
The IFAD loan will be for 20 years, including five years' grace, with interest
at 4% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant
reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups have
lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups
and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well as the
initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem. It further
discusses the constraints that will have to be faced if these policies are to
be successfully implemented. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country. With regard to external relations, the civilian government formed
in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
then Commander in Chief of the Army, has moved successfully to consolidate
Thailand's external position by improving and stabilizing relations with
Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthening relations among its
ASEAN partners. Domestically, under the interim constitution promulgated by
the Kriangsak Government, a general election was to be held within one year
of its formation. However, the new constitution has not yet been approved
and elections are likely to be postponed until early 1979.
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development. This is reflected in the fact
that all recent governments have endorsed the objectives and major strategies
of the country's Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
Plan (1977-81). There is now increasing concern to achieve a widespread



distribution of the benefits from growth. The Government is increasingly
turning its attention towards socioeconomic issues, recognizing that an
improvement in the conditions of the poorest farmers and those living in the
more remote areas is not only desirable by itself, but would also counteract
insurgency in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1977 was 7.6%, or 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc. and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation, implying
a high incidence of poverty in some of the subregions. The most important
group which has lagged behind is that of rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Given a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this
large group have tended to depress labor incomes throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 6.4% p.a.
In addition to external factors (the oil price increase and its aftermath),
the major domestic factor responsible for this deceleration is the increasing
scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less fertile soils causing
a decline in agricultural growth to about 4% p.a. since 1970. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. In conjunction
with rapid domestic inflation, the latter led the Government to curtail sharply
public investments in 1974 and 1975. As economic growth slowed, however, the
newly elected government increased its expenditures in 1976 and 1977 for
countercyclical as well as structural reasons.  In addition, 1975 and 1976



- 3 -
were years of major political uncertainty in Southeast Asia. The economy
has demonstrated considerable resiliency in the face of external shocks and
real GDP growth rate never fell below 5% and exceeded 6% for the period
1976-77.  Price stability has largelr bI-en rest-red and private domestic
investment remains high at 17-18% of GDP.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. The balance of payments, which recorded
surpluses in 1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current
account deficit reached $1,092 million, or 6% of GDP in 1977.  The Government
has significantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources,
from the Euro-dollar market and from the IMF to finance these deficits.
Temporarily, foreign exchange reserves have also been used. To contain the
balance of payments deficit, the Government in March 1978 raised tariffs on
141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number of items,
most notably gasoline.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the second year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the noninterventionist, growth-supporting strategies
of the previous plans to "'alleviate problems related to the widening income
gap and inequitable distribution of social services." However, actual
budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priorities, as year-to-
year changes in allocations have been too small to effect the major shift in
expenditure patterns which would be required. A major factor impeding reallo-
cation of resources has been that the senior staff of the ministries are
concentrated in Bangkok and that the ministries are highly centralized at the
level of the Directors-General. These officials have a great deal of indepen-
dence of action within their respective ministries. As a result, there is
little regional delegation of authority, and the close cooperation within and
among ministries necessary to implement new-style integrated development
projects effectively has been lacking. These problems have been recognized
and the Government is implementing a number of long and short-term measures
to modernize its development administration and expedite project execution,
including a major reform in 1976 of the civil service personnel, planning and
staffing procedures, establishment of special project committees, and implemen-
tation of a revolving fund scheme to speed implementation of Bank-funded
projects. Continued improvement in development management will be one of the
principal objectives of our policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the gradual shift in emphasis started in
the Third Plan. Its principal objectives include a growth target of 7%,
equitable distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth,
faster generation of employment opportunities and a balanced development of
the different regions. Projected public sector development expenditures
amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over
the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain largely to be defined. The Bank has



- 4 -
initiated an intensive program of economic studies to help the Government
define a policy and investment framework to help achieve the objectives of the
Fourth Plan. These studies, as well as concurrent work under way within the
Government, are focusing on problems of employment, income distribution,
industrial policy, and regional development.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that the Thai economy
has many positive features which have sustained a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades, and which augur well for rapid and broadly distri-
buted growth in the future. These include a relatively equitable distribution
of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology; extensive,
albeit uneven, provision of infrastructure by the Thai Government; and dynamism
of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, as the annual rate of population
growth slowed from 3% during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./1
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the past, the labor force is expected
to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of job
creation. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has provided an
essential outlet for new entrants into the labor force and has supported
agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In
view of these factors, continued reliance on the past development model would
lead to a deceleration in agricultural and overall growth in the next decade,
resulting in persistently large balance of payments deficits, higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the development pattern is necessary not
only for social, but also for economic reasons.
13.       The central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is how to
shift the economy from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under
cultivation and on import substitution industries to one based on increasingly
intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's
role has been confined to largely short-term economic management, where its
performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic and social
services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the Government
will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       For the time being it is clear that agriculture, which produces
one-third of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and on which most of the country's poor depend for their livelihood,
remains the key sector. Future growth of the sector will have to be based
mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, improvement in
yields, continued diversification of crops, including, in some areas, different
/I This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in Annex I
for 1970-75.



- 5 -
forms of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricul-
tural credit. All of these require increased government assistance to
the rural sector. As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to
be formulated to accelerate income growth for that significant part of the
rural population whi_h has not fully participated in the recent growth in
rural income. Specifically, these programs would attempt to develop upland
and other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infra-
structure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible, irrigation
development, with the associated introduction of high yielding varieties,
greater use of fertilizers and other conmmercial inputs would be continued.
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the prime objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural sector also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on production of
low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment, and processed
agricultural products. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and
creating jobs.
Resource Requirements
16.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1977) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has recently improved resource mobilization through increased
taxation of property and income and better collection efforts. It is currently
investigating other more efficient tax systems, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade,
particularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural
growth.
17.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid 1980s. Because of the large present deficit, the percentage growth in



- 6 -
exports would have to be significantly larger than that in imports even to
keep the deficit stable in absolute terms. The needs for capital goods
imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity
are such that the current deficit is not expected to decline rapidly. In the
longer term, the exploitation of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand,
further development of its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufac-
tured exports and the development of Thai industries should restore external
equilibrium and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the
second half of the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to
finance these deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience,
they are not high in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in
comparison to other countries at similar stages of development. With a
dynamic private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the debt.
18.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been able to expand their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the Government and public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external
public borrowing requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and
the level of concessionality will be considered at the next meeting of the
Consultative Group to be held in Paris on December 5 and 6, 1978.
19.       It is likely that net disbursements will more than double in current
terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing
by 1985, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (2.5% in 1976)
would remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, currently about 11%, would not exceed 20%.
IBRD exposure in Thailand would fall as other donors increased their programs.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements will be within Thailand's
capacity and will not endanger its credit standing. It should be noted,
however, that these projections assume a significant level of concessional
assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of that country's
announced intention to expand its foreign aid program.



-7-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
20.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 46
loans amounting to $1,241.2 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($295.5 million), irrigation ($218.8 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.9 million) with, in addition, one
for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining
loans have been for water supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($153 million),
education ($52.3 million), industry ($42.8 million), rural development ($21 mil-
lion), livestock ($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million), national agri-
cultural extension ($28 million) and a sites and services project in Bangkok
($8.6 million); the rural development and livestock loans were made under Third
Window terms. Thailand has also received four IDA credits: one for $19.5 mil-
lion for an education project; two credits totaling $12.5 million for irrigation
improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In
general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of September 30, 1978.
21.       Over the five-year period FY75-78, the Bank dramatically shifted its
lending to Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional
infrastructure projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74)
to a program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY75, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45% of
lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors - which prior
to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program -
have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years included
education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of the program.
22.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify the
appropriateness of the above shift, but also underscore the need to move even
further to design programs which help the rural population, and particularly
those farmers in rainfed areas who have so far been largely bypassed by recent
economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, we are redoubling
efforts to develop a package of investments to lift the rainfed farmers out of
a subsistence existence. A combination of education, agricultural research
and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen, though a viable
package for the poorest farmers has yet to be developed. Expansion and
improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on



- 8 -
reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern
and southern regions. Transportation, power, water supply and telecommunica-
tions projects will also continue to have a rural focus. A key element of the
strategy outined in the Basic Economic Report is the creation of jobs and
stimulation of economic activity away from Bangkok. We therefore intend to
redirect the bulk of our urban and industrial lending to the provinces and are
now assisting the Government in the preparation of projects to enhance
the attractiveness of regional urban centers.
23.       Implementation of the above strategy will require a significant
effort by both the Government and the Bank. Preparation of viable investment
packages to assist rainfed farmers will test the administrative capacity of
the Thai bureaucracy and present new challenges to agriculturalists and
economists alike. The Bank will assist the Government in identifying and
preparing such projects.
24.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365.2 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 34.7% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.8% of GDP in 1977). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
25% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 15%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
25.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of Thailand; three loans and an investment, totaling
$32.17 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company; a
loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of $200,000 in United Sugar
Terminal Company; a loan of $4.85 million and an equity investment of $250,000
in the Bangkok Glass Industry Company; a loan of $36 million and equity
investment of $4 million in Siam City Cement Company; and a $150,000 equity
investment in Thai Orient Leasing Company. IFC has recently approved a line
of credit of $2.0 million for small- and medium-scale enterprises to be
administered by Siam Commercial Bank. IFC has also completed the appraisal of
a project for producing carbon black. Prospects for other IFC operations are
reasonably good. IFC has been asked to arrange the debt financing of approxi-
mately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining and refinery project. Other
likely operations are the development of privately sponsored industrial
estates and a project to expand cement production. At the Government's
request, the Capital Markets Department carried out a reorganization study of
the Government Housing Bank, which is currently being implemented by the
latter institution.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
26.        The agricultural sector is of primary importance for Thailand,
accounting for about 30% of GNP, employing 70% of the labor force, and con-
tributing about 65% of total export earnings. Agricultural production has
grown at an annual rate of around 4% for the past six years, compared with a
6% increase for the economy as a whole. Sustained growth in the agricultural
sector has kept pace with domestic demand for food and raw materials and has
doubled agricultural exports over the past six vears, in value terms.
27.        Not only has agricultural production increased, but it has also
become more diversified, as evidenced by the increasing share of upland crops
in terms of both value added from agricultural production and area planted.
The areas planted to cassava, sugar cane and maize, to take the most striking
examples, grew by about 38%, 27% and 13% per annum respectively between 1970
and 1975. This diversification has been additional to, rather than at the
expense of rice, as the area planted to paddy has continued to increase at
about 2% per year.
28.        Thailand's performance in agriculture has come mainly from private
initiative, supported by Government investments in basic infrastructure, par-
ticularly in roads and irrigation facilities. While the continuation of such
investments is essential, low productivity, the increasingly marginal nature
of the land being brought under cultivation and a rural labor force growing at
3% per annum, present a new set of challenges to Government. Improved
agricultural research, more effective agricultural extension, improved land
titling, more accessible agricultural credit and a more reliable supply of
fertilizer and other inputs will be required if agricultural productivity and
incomes are to grow sufficiently to allow the twin goals of rapid growth and
more equitable income distribution to be met. The development and implementa-
tion of sound, integrated investment programs and policies, particularly those
required to assist farmers in the poorest rainfed areas, will require a degree
of coordination not previously achieved in the Thai bureaucracy.
The Irrigation Subsector
29.       Most of the irrigable areas in Thailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers where a combination of heavy rainfall and flooding precludes
the cultivation of crops other than paddy in the wet season. In the Chao
Phya Plain, heavy soils predominate and paddy is the preferred crop in the
dry season as well.  The situation is similar in the coastal plains of the
soit'A.  Drv-'s-ason cropping is more diversified on the alluvial soils of
the Northern RegThn, and in the small areas so far developed for irrigation
in the Northeast.
30.        In the wet season, the harvested area of rice averages about
7.7 million ha of which the irrigated areas account for some 1.8 million ha.
Close to 0.4 million ha of rice is irrigated in the dry season. Since
virtually all land suitable for rice is now cultivated in the wet season, any
major gains in rice production will have to come from higher yields in both



- 10 -
rainfed and irrigated areas, and increases in the area cropped in the dry
season. To meet domestic demand for rice and maintain Thailand's share of the
world's export market, production would have to increase from 15.1 million
tons of paddy in 1976 to 22.7 million tons in 1990. Even assurming a yield
increase of 20% in rainfed areas over the period, paddy production in irrigated
areas will have to more than double to meet this target. This will require
the use of higher yielding varieties, which in turn depend on more reliable
water and improved cultivation techniques.
31.       Since its formation in 1904, the Royal Irrigation Department (RID)
has constructed irrigation, flood control and navigation systems which benefit
nearly 2 million hectares. Early irrigation development was characterized by
an extensive approach aimed at modifying natural flood regimes over large
tracts of land. This method, which was appropriate to the vast flat lands of
the Chao Phya plain, was applied in other regions with less success, particu-
larly in the Northeast where the irregular terrain precludes flood irrigation
except in the narrow river valleys. Furthermore, the circumstances that favored
this extensive approach have now changed. Improved agricultural techniques are
available and current and projected future prices offer incentives for farmers
to take advantage of higher standards of on-farm development. Thus, future
exploitation of Thailand's irrigation potential will require more emphasis on
reliable and timely delivery of water to the farmers' fields, involving upgrad-
ing of virtually all of the existing irrigation systems, and incorporating
higher standards of water control in the expansion of existing systems and in
new projects.
32.       Since 1950, the Bank has assisted in financing nine irrigation
projects and one multipurpose project, for a total of $297.1 miLlion in
loans and credits./l  Nine of these have been for the development of irrigation
in the central plain - Thailand's "rice bowl" - and one, the first phase of
the present project, for the improvement of irrigation in the Northeast
Region. The four projects undertaken since 1973 have incorporated the higher
standards of water control mentioned above, by including land levelling and
on-farm development. Implementation of Bank-financed irrigation projects has
been satisfactory though recent projects have encountered start-up problems
because of delays in appointing consultants or in tendering. Early administra-
tive problems have in each case been overcome and implementation of ongoing
projects is now progressing well. RID has recently appointed consultants
(financed under Loan 1149-TH) to undertake an administration and organization
study to identify administrative bottlenecks and recommend ways that it can
improve intra-departmental coordination.
33.       The Bank's strategy in Thailand's agricultural sector is to assist
the Government to increase productivity, particularly among the poorest
farmers, who are those in the North and Northeast growing rice for subsistence
under rainfed conditions. Where irrigation is possible, this will mean
expanding or improving existing systems so that cultivation of improved
varieties is possible and two, perhaps three, crops can be grown annually.
/I  Three additional multipurpose dams were financed by loans to the power
sector.



- 11 -
Improving the lot of farmers where irrigation is not feasible will depend on
the provision of rural infrastructure, secure tenure, agricultural research
and extension and adequate credit. This strategy is incorporated, in part,
in the proposed project which will expand irrigation for farmers in two areas
of Northeast Thailand presently relying on rainfed conditions; it is the second
phase of an irrigation improvement program begun in 1974 (Credit 461-TH).
34.       Storage dams are essential to irrigation in the Northeast.  During
the dry season, the flow in all except the lower reaches of the larger rivers
virtually ceases. In the wet season, river flows vary in accordance with
rainfall, with sharp recessions in flow during drought periods. Runoff per sq
km is much lower than in the Northern and Southern regions, and the potential
for year-round irrigation is limited to about 300,000 ha or some 10% of the
region's total paddy area. At present, about 30,000 ha benefit from wet-season
irrigation and about 8,000 ha are irrigated in the dry season. In the 1960s,
the Royal Irrigation Department began a major program of dam and canal construc-
tion in the Northeast. At the present time there are six large reservoirs,
with capacity to irrigate about 160,000 ha. The area receiving reliable
and timely irrigation is far less, however, because of technical deficiencies
in the canal systems.
35.       In support of the Government's efforts to make more effective use
of existing irrigation facilities in the Northeast, the Northeast Irrigation
Improvement Project was initiated in 1974 with Bank assistance (Cr. 461-TH).
This project aimed at upgrading and completing irrigation works serving 37,300 ha
in three project areas: Lam Pao (17,000 ha), Nam Pong (10,200 ha) and Lam
Phra Plerng (10,100 ha), and also included consultant services to prepare a
second stage project. Because of initial delays in project implementation,
and a decision to increase coverage and adopt higher standards for tertiary
development than initially envisaged, the project will be completed in 1980,
two years later than originally scheduled. But farmer response in areas
developed to date has been very encouraging, with 60-70% of the affected
farmers planting a dry season crop within two years of completion of the
facilities. It is now estimated that increased benefits will more than
offset increased costs, and the economic return will remain a satisfactory 20%.
Further development of the Nam Pong irrigation scheme, begun under Credit
461-TH, is being financed by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau. The next phase
of the Lam Pao irrigation development is included in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       Feasibility studies for the proposed project, prepared by RID and
their consultants (Tahal, Israel) as part of the Northeast Thailand Irrigation
Improvement Project, were completed in 1976. A Bank preappraisal mission
visited the country in March 1977 and the project was appraised in September
1977. At the request of the Government, negotiations were deferred until
mid-1978 in order to allow works under the first phase of Lam Pao to be
adequately advanced. Negotiations were held from August 3 to 7, 1978. The
Government delegation was led by Khun Charin Atthayodhin, Deputy Director
General, RID.



- 12 -
Project Description
37.       The proposed project will allow year-round irrigation on about
51,300 hectares in Northeast Thailand where most of the 21,000 farm families
now barely subsist on a single crop of rainfed rice. It will tap the potential
of two existing reservoirs (Lam Pao and Lam Takhong) through the construction
or improvement of diversion dams, main, lateral and tertiary canals, drains,
and facilities for operation and maintenance. Details are provided in the
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Thailand - Appraisal of the Second Northeast
Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project" (No. 1901-TH dated October 17, 1978),
which is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data are given in Annex III.
38.       Lam Pao.  The 48,550 ha service area of the existing Lam Pao
reservoir is being developed in two stages (Map 3137R4). Completion and
improvement of irrigation systems in the Stage I area of 17,000 ha are being
carried out under a project financed in part by Credit 461-TH. The proposed
project includes the construction of all the works needed to develop the
remaining 31,550 ha in the Stage II area. These works consist of 57 km of
main canals, 196 km of lateral canals, and tertiary canals for the entire
area. The layout and design of tertiary canals will follow the standards
developed in the ongoing Stage I project. Each turnout from the lateral
canals will serve about 50 ha. Tertiary canals will be aligned as far as
possible along property lines to minimize exchange or reallocation of hold-
ings. A farm turnout from the tertiaries would be provided to serve two or
three holdings. Farm roads, about 2.5 m wide, would be provided along about
20% of the tertiaries. The main drainage system would consist primarily of
widening and deepening existing natural drains, but some new drains would be
constructed in low-lying areas. The total length of drains would be about 150
km. Facilities to operate and maintain the system would also be provided.
39.       Lam Takhong.  The service area of the Lam Takhong project is
divided into two zones (Map 13080R). The Upper Zone extends about 45 km down-
stream from the Lam Takhong Dam and has an irrigable area of about 8,500 ha.
There are no formal irrigation systems in the Upper Zone but lands close to
the river are presently irrigated by about 300 farmer-owned bamboo diversion
weirs, pumps, and water wheels. The proposed project includes the construc-
tion of two diversion dams, 60 km of new canals, and associated tertiary
canals to irrigate 6,200 ha in the Upper Zone. The remaining 2,300 ha, a
narrow strip of land extending 20 km below the dam, will continue to be
served mainly by pumps installed by RID which irrigate about 1,200 ha in the
wet season and 600 ha in the dry season. The new systems will replace most
of the farmers' diversions which are costly to maintain and operate.
Improved water control in the upper reaches would also make it possible to
deliver more timely and dependable flows to an existing downstream system,
constructed in the 1940s, which serves 13,500 ha in the Lower Zone. The
system in the Lower Zone would be improved to permit more effective opera-
tion and maintenance. The canals would be cleared of weeds and sediment and
existing control structures would be improved and in some cases replaced.
The service roads are in poor condition and new roads would be constructed.
Operation and maintenance facilities would be provided.



- 13 -
40.       The city of Nakorn Ratchasima (Korat), with a population of 85,000,
draws its water from the Lam Takhong river downstream of the existing irriga-
tion system.  In several months of the dry season, water has to be released
from the Lam Takhong reservoir to meet Korat's demands.  Because of the many
uncontrolled diversions between the reservoir and Korat, the reservoir has to
release much more than Korat's needs to allow for losses in the river. In
the early months of the dry season, irrigation needs are low and hence water is
wasted. For some years the Government has been considering the construction
of a pipeline to Korat to eliminate this problem. Even with the improved
water control provided by the proposed project, operational difficulties and
the risk of water losses would remain. Therefore, the Government has agreed
that it will: (a) prepare and submit to the Bank and IFAD by June 30, 1980,
a plan to meet Korat's long-term requirements of water; and (b) take all
necessary steps to insure that the plan is implemented in a timely manner
(Section 3.08 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). Consulting services to
carry out the required studies and to prepare designs and contract documents
would be financed from the proposed loan.
41.       Consulting Services.  Consultants will be retained to assist RID in
the preparation of designs and contract documents, in establishing operation
and maintenance procedures, and in project monitoring and evaluation.  The
Government has indicated that it is considering extending the contract of the
present consultants (Tahal, Israel) in association with a local firm.  The
estimated total consultant input is 160 man-months of expatriate staff and 500
man-months of local engineers and technicians.  The estimated cost for expat-
riate consultants is $7,500 man-month, including international transportation.
Consultants will also be employed by RID to assist in the planning, design
and preparation of contract documents for future irrigation projects in
Thailand. These projects will be selected by RID in consultation with the
Bank. The relative input of local and foreign consultants for project
preparation cannot be determined at this time since it will depend on
the types of projects and the scope of work. The consultants engaged by RID
for project implementation and for preparation of future projects will be
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and IFAD (Section
3.02 of draft Joint Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.       The project would be implemented over a period of five and a half
years beginning with the 1978/79 dry season with work on the Lam Pao main
canal. Construction of the main and lateral canals would proceed throughout the
year, but earthmoving operations would be slowed down and sometimes suspended
for short periods during the wet season (June through September). Work on
tertiary canals would be confined to the dry season to avoid interference with
the wet season crop. At Lam Pao, where the left bank main canal has been
completed over most of its length, construction of laterals and tertiaries
would begin in November 1979 on a block of about 3,500 ha served by this
canal. Thereafter, construction of successive blocks of about 3,500 ha would
begin each year. Each block is expected to be completed in two working
seasons. A similar procedure would be followed on the right bank with construc-
tion of the first unit also starting in November 1979. Design and construction
of all the laterals and tertiaries in a block would proceed in parallel so
that irrigation benefits will begin to accrue shortly after investments are
made. Work on the Upper Zone of Lam Takhong would begin in October 1979 with



- 14 -
a start on the first of the two diversion dams with its associated canal system.
The diversion dams and irrigation systems are expected to be completed in
about three years. Rehabilitation of the Lower Zone facilities would take
about three years beginning in late 1979.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total project cost is estimated at $80 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $35 million (44%). Construction costs are based on
quantity and unit price estimates prepared by RID and include about 10% for
taxes and duties. Unit prices are in line with recent bid prices for similar
work in Thailand updated to January 1979. Physical contingencies of 15% have
been applied to the base cost estimate for civil works and equipment. The
expected price contingencies over the implementation period amount to 26% of
the base cost plus physical contingencies and assume the following annual
rates of price inflation: for civil works 9% through 1979 and 8% thereafter
and for equipment and services 7.5% through 1979 and 7% thereafter. The
project's foreign exchange cost will be met by loans from IFAD and the Bank of
$17.5 million each, which together cover 48% of total costs net of taxes and
duties. Local expenditures, amounting to $45.0 million equivalent, would be
met through annual government budgetary allocations to RID. IBRD will administer
the IFAD loan, acting as a Cooperative Institution under terms of the Coopera-
tive Agreement between IFAD and the Bank, dated May 20, 1978. A Joint Project
Agreement spelling out the arrangements for this co-financing has been agreed,
to become effective when both the IFAD and Bank Loan Agreements are declared
effective (Section 5.04 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). Fulfillment
of all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan is a condition
for effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
44.       A major part of the project's civil works would be carried out by
contract in line with RID's current policy of reducing the share of its con-
struction program carried out by force account. However, improvement of
existing systems at Lam Takhong and the construction of drains in both
project areas would be executed by force account since the scope of work is
best defined in the field as the work proceeds. Also, the first lateral/
tertiary blocks at Lam Pao would be constructed by force account since it
would not be possible to prepare contract documents and complete procurement
procedures before the start of the 1979/80 working season. The value of
force account works is estimated at $18.1 million.
45.       The value of civil works contracts (totalling about $43.9 million)
will range between $0.5 and $6.0 million (including physical contingencies
and expected price increases). The size and phasing of contracts are dictated
largely by the rate at which detailed designs and contracts can be prepared.
Experience in Thailand has shown that such contracts would not be of interest
to international contractors. Therefore, these contracts will be awarded
following competitive bidding advertised locally and contracting procedures
acceptable to the Bank will be followed. Foreign firms will be eligible to
bid; contracts will be advertised in Thai and English in the local press and



- 15 -
documents would be in English. Most vehicles and equipment ($3.8 million)
will be procured following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs
duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. Vehicles and equipment costing less than $20,000 each and limited to a
total of $300,000, which are not suitable for international tendering, would
be purchased through normal government procurement procedures (local competi-
tive bidding or competitive quotations) which ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
46.       Disbursements from the IFAD and Bank loans, apportioned 50:50
against each withdrawal application, will be made at the rate of 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of the
ex-factory price for items manufactured locally, and 65% of the total cost of
items procured locally, off-the-shelf, that is, where import bill or manufac-
turer's invoice is not available. For consultants' services, disbursements
would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for civil works would
be at 42% of total expenditures, against periodical contractors progress
payments, or, in the case of force account works, against certificates of
expenditure. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1985.
Cost Recovery
47.       To date, no water charges have been levied on irrigation schemes
operated by RID. An indirect tax is borne by farmers who produce a market-
able surplus of rice because of Thailand's system of rice export taxes. The
most important of these taxes is the rice premium which is a fee per ton paid
for an export license and depends on the grade of rice. The rice premium is
varied according to world market prices in order to stabilize the domestic
price for urban consumers and to ensure that windfall profits, when world
prices are high, accrue to the public sector rather than to exporters or pro-
ducers. In recent years the average premium for all grades has ranged from a
low of $30 per ton in 1972 to a peak in early 1974 when it exceeded $200 per
ton. Annual government receipts in the 1970s have ranged from $13 million to
$165 million. The rice premium has little impact on subsistence farmers who
consume most of the rice they produce, but it definitely depresses the incomes
of farmers in irrigated areas or those with large rainfed holdings who have a
significant surplus for sale. Prior to 1973, the Bank accepted the rice
premium as a form of cost recovery for irrigation projects. Since then,
however, in four projects financed by Bank loans and credits, the Government
has undertaken to conduct studies to determine appropriate levels of project
specific charges and thereafter to impose and collect such charges. These
projects place more emphasis on on-farm development than previous Bank-financed
projects and lead to clearly identifiable improvements to the productivity of
the land holdings of the individual project beneficiaries. It was fur this
reason that the Government has decided to introduce a more direct form of cost
recovery than provided by the rice premium.



- 16 -
48.       The Government has also undertaken to strengthen its legislative
authority in this regard, since existing legislation is inadequate. Authority
to collect O&M charges and recover on-farm development costs is provided under
two Acts: (1) the Land Consolidation Act which empowers the Government to
collect 90% of the cost of common irrigation works and the full cost of
on-farm development and of associated O&M works in designated "land consolida-
tion areas," and (2) the Irrigation Act which empowers Government to charge
farmers a flat fee per hectare for land under irrigation. The former Act
applies to only a small portion of irrigated land in the central plain, and
the latter Act has never been applied because of the unreliability of much of
the system. New legislation which will enable the Government to assess,
impose and collect appropriate charges from beneficiaries of all irrigation
projects is now being drafted and will be submitted to the National Assembly
no later than June 30, 1980 (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).
49.       In the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH) which
is now nearing completion, the Government proposal which has been accepted
by the Bank is to impose a charge which would recover 90% of the cost of
on-farm development, excluding land-levelling, over nine years, without
interest. In the Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project II (Loan 1468-TH),
where construction has recently begun, the Government has agreed to recover
50% of the cost of on-farm development (including land levelling) over not
more than 15 years with interest not less than 12%, with appropriate grace
periods. In the case of the Phitsanulok Project (Loan 1139-TH) and the
Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 461-TH) the Government
has requested, and the Bank has agreed, to an extension of time to carry out
the necessary studies to determine appropriate levels of charges. These
studies involve working with the farmers to prepare detailed farm budgets in
areas where irrigation has been established and cropping intensities and
yields are approaching full development. Because of delays in both projects,
cropping intensities close to full development have only recently been
reached on areas large enough to form a basis for the study. Because of
differences in the modes of on-farm development the results from the Chao
Phya area are not directly applicable to other projects. For the proposed
project, the Government has agreed that it will: (a) submit to the Bank and
IFAD for review and comment, no later than December 31, 1980, proposals for
the establishment of appropriate levels of charges applicable to project
beneficiaries based on data from the Stage I area of the Northeast Thailand
Irrigation Improvement Project, taking into account the incentives of farmers,
the capacity of farmers to pay, and other charges and taxes paid by farmers;
and (b) subject to enactment of appropriate legislation and the findings of
the above study, impose and collect, not later than three years after comple-
tion of tertiary systems within blocks of about 3,000 hectares, charges
adequate to ensure the recovery of (i) the operation and maintenance costs,
and (ii) a reasonable portion of the construction costs of the tertiary
systems under the project (Section 4.02(b) and (c) of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).



- 17 -
Organization and Management
50.       The Royal Irrigation Department (RID) would be responsible for
project implementation. RID is now organized in 22 functional divisions and
12 regional offices under a Director General. Three Deputy Directors General
and two Chief Engineers assist the Director General in the management of the
Department. RID, together with most of the government agencies serving agri-
culture, fall under the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. As in the
case of the Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 461-TH),
the Deputy Director General, Operations and Maintenance, will act as Project
Director responsible for overall direction of the proposed project. A Project
Manager has been appointed who will be responsible for day-to-day management
and for coordination with the project consultants, the functional divisions,
and other government agencies. Work in each of the project areas will be
coordinated by Project Engineers to be appointed by December 31, 1978 (Section
3.03(c) of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
51.       RID will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the dams, the irrigation system down to the tertiary outlets, and the drain-
age system. Consultants will assist in establishing operation and maintenance
procedures for the project. Operation and maintenance of the systems within
the tertiary blocks will be the responsibility of the farmers themselves,
organized into water users' associations as is the custom in Thailand. The
farmers in each group elect a common irrigator who is responsible for operating
the on-farm works and for ensuring that maintenance is carried out. The
informal water user groups in the completed areas of the ongoing Northeast
Irrigation Improvement Project are working quite well in maintaining and
operating the tertiaries, but formally established groups would be better
able to handle disputes and operate the systems more efficiently. The
Government is presently drafting legislation to strengthen RID's legal powers
to establish farmer groups and to enforce water use discipline. The annual
cost of operating and maintaining the facilities for which RID would be
responsible is estimated at $12 per ha on average. The cost of operation
and maintenance of the on-farm works is estimated at $3/ha/yr.
Safety of Dams
52.       The existing Lam Pao and Lam Takhong dams are essential to the
success of the proposed project. The Government has agreed to make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank and IFAD for the two dams to be inspected
periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to ensure
that no deficiencies occur in their condition, or in the quality and adequacy
of maintenance or methods of operation (Section 4.03 of the draft Joint
Project Agreement).
Agricultural Supporting Services
53.       Agricultural supporting services will be provided to assist the
farmers of the project area in realizing potential benefits. The Department
of Agricultural Extension (DAE) will be responsible for providing agricultural



- 18 -
advice to the farmers. At present the project areas have only one extension
worker for every 4,500 farm families. Under the Northeast Irrigation Improve-
ment Project, Stage I (Cr. 461-TH), an improved extension service has been
introduced, using leading farmers as part-time extension workers (farmers'
foremen), under the supervision of extension officers of DAE. Both Stage I
and the proposed Stage II project areas are due to be incorporated in the
National Extension Project (Ln. 1393-TH) in 1980. At that time farmers'
foremen will be replaced by full-time extension agents at a ratio of one
extension agent to 1,000 farm families. Improved technology will be made
available from a number of research stations in, or near to the project areas.
The work on rice research stations in the area is focused on varietal screening,
fertilizer trials and seed multiplication. Similar work with upland crops,
including both peanuts and mung bean is conducted on the FAQ Experiment and
Demonstration Farm located in the Lam Pao subproject area. In addition RID
operates its own crop experiment station near Korat, adjacent to Lam Takhong.
Between them, these stations provide a sound technological base! for the
project. Fertilizer use is expected to increase substantially with full
development of the project, with about 19,600 tons of fertilizer expected
to be required each year. Commercial channels for the distribution of
fertilizers are well established. Seed processing facilities in the Northeast
will be strengthened by the recent establishment of a seed center at Khon Kaen,
under a USAID-financed National Seeds Project. No problems are anticipated
in meeting the project's seed requirements which would amount to 500 tons of
rice, 130 tons of peanuts and 40 tons of mung bean.
54.       At present farmers in the project areas rely almost entirely on
noninstitutional sources of credit, mainly from relatives, friends, or local
merchants. However, irrigation development will result in a substantial
demand for short-term production credit to be met mainly from institutional
sources, primarily the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(BAAC). BAAC already has the necessary infrastructure with branch offices in
all districts covering the project area. BAAC will make available the
additional staff and funds needed to meet the credit requirements of the
farmers in the project areas (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Joint Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       The Irrigated Agriculture Branch of RID's O&M division which
is already engaged in the collection of crop statistics for all irrigation
projects will be responsible for monitoring of the proposed project. Data
collection will be expanded to include measurements of input use, changes in
cropping patterns, and farm incomes as well as crop yields. The project
consultants will assist in setting up the program.
Environmental Effects
56.       The project will have a beneficial effect on the environment by
providing a year-round water supply in an area presently dependent on uncer-
tain rainfall. Its adverse effects will not be significant. The project
area is already flooded for paddy cultivation for about six months every year
so that double cropping would not greatly increase exposure of the farmers to
water-borne diseases or malaria.  The canals would not be used for drinking
water since the villagers rely on wells and rainwater for domestic use.
Schistosomiasis is not present in the project area.



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
57.       About 21,000 farm families will benefit from the project.  The
average farm holding within the project areas is 2.3 ha at Lam Pao and 1.8 ha
at Lam Takhong. Most of the farmers in Lam Pao also have small plots outside
of the project areas for cultivating crops such as cassava and kenaf. Vir-
tually all of the farms are owner-cultivated. By making year-round cultivation
possible, the project is expected to generate 4.3 million man-days of additional
employment. The annual income of the average farm family served by the project
is expected to increase from about $500 at present to about $2,000 at full
development.
58.       The Bank estimated the relative poverty income level in rural
Thailand in 1976 to be $93/capita. Using the index of international
inflation and assuming a 4% annual increase in real personal income, the 1979
and 1991 poverty levels have been estimated at $130 and $220, respectively.
Based on the farm models tested, it is estimated that at present about 90% of
the farmers in the project areas have incomes less than the poverty level,
compared with 40% of the rural population nationally. Without the project,
the relative income situation is likely to remain the same or even deteri-
orate. With the project, farm incomes will increase substantially. At full
development in 1991, some 55% of farm families in the project area would
exceed the poverty income level.
59.       For the project as a whole, the cropped area is at present 49,000 ha,
mostly rainfed paddy with yields of about 1.7 ton/ha. At full development,
the cropped area will increase to at least 75,000 ha (63,000 ha of paddy and
12,000 ha of peanuts, mungbeans, etc.) Yields of paddy are expected to
increase on average to about 4 tons/ha. Incremental production of milled
rice would be about 100,000 tons. The economic rate of return, for the
project as a whole, is estimated to be 25%. Although this rate is high, it
is realistic for this type of project which provides (at a relatively low
cost of $1,220 per ha and $2,900 per family) an advanced stage of land devel-
opment which will allow farmers to benefit from substantial past investments
in water control facilities. The rate of return for individual components of
the project are 26% for Lam Pao, and 20% for the Upper and Lower Zones of Lam
Takhong. Sensitivity tests show that the project's rate of return would drop
to 22% with a 20% increase in costs, and to 21% with a 20% reduction in
benefits. A two-year delay in attaining full development would lower the
rate of return to 19%.
60.       There are no unusual risks associated with the proposed project,
although realization of expected benefits will depend on the pace with which
farmers adopt improved technologies made possible by the reliable water supply.
The risks normally associated with irrigation projects have been accounted
for by making conservative estimates of yields and of areas to be irrigated
during the dry season. Delays in procurement have been encountered in other
irrigation projects in Thailand, and these cannot be ruled out in the future.
However, progress on all Bank-financed irrigation projects has shown a marked
improvement in this area during the past year.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Joint Project Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand, the
Bank and IFAD, the draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
IFAD, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. In addition to the features of the Joint Project
Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III, the following feature is of particular interest; namely, that an
additional condition of effectiveness is fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 1, 1978
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   THAILAND                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             514.0                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HEGHER
AGRICULTURAL      238.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
*  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP |e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        200.0      410.0            616.0      432.3         867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EO,UIVALENT)       64.0        247.0     284.0            522.0       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          26.6        36.3       44.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 12.7           15.0       16.8             30.1       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         52.0         71.0      86.0             156.8       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    112.0          152.0     185.0             794.8       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.1         44.8      43.7             40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.9        52.3       53.2             55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          2.9       3.1               3.2         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.2          3.0       2.9               2.3         2.7         2.5
URBAN                                5.1          5.0       4.6               5.1        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.9         41.4      34.9              34.6       42.2          37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.8         10.7       8.9               8.7        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.2       3.1               2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       405.6    2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           14.0      37.0              22.1       14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               68.0        100.0     104.7            106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.0        103.0     107.0            108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            47.0         52.2      50.0              57.7       56.8         63.0
OF WHICH AN7IMAL AND PULSE         8.4           *-      14.6              17.0       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.4          5.3         ..              4.0         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0           55.5       58.0             59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         80.0       56.3             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ,,         17.0      25.0              21.9       31.1         56.8
URBAN                                 ..         60.0      69.0              58.3       68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..         10.0      16.0               9.8       18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      40.0              28.6       37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..         65.0      58.0              66.6       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 *-          8.0      36.0              14.8       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7800.0       7070.0    6750.0            4103.1     9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       6650.0    4330.0            1520.2     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1340.0 If    890.0      770.0             657.1      786.5        493.9
URBAN                                 .,        280.0     290.0             145.5      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 .,       1380.0    1140.0            1011.8     1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0       19.0             19.0        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5 If       5.8        5.5              5.2         ..           5.2
URBAN                                5.3 If       5.9        5.5              5.2         ..           5.0
RURAL                                5.6 If       5.8        5.5              5.4          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..                ..         ..           2.0
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..         2.3          1.5
RURAL                                                                                                  2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       24.6             39.1        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                 ..         63.0 Lg      ..               ..          ..         67.8
RURAL                                 *          13.0         .        .                 10.3         34.1



Annex I
Page 2 Of  6
TABLE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
THAILAND                                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATF)
SAME         SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME          INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 136.0         81.0        78.0             95.6         75.8         99.8
FEMALE                128.0         77.0       75.0              93.7        67.9          93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0         17.0        25.0             43.3         17.7         33.8
FEMALE                  6.0         14.0       21.0              38.6         12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0            24.0        13.0              11.3         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         35.0        30.0             30.0         34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            20.0          16.0       21.0             25.4         23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          68.0          79.0       82.0              84.0        63.7          71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0           5.0        7.0               9.3         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0          78.0      135.0             97.6         71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.3           7.0       17.0             21.8         14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     11.0         24.0         ..              25.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..               ..        1.7               4.6         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0          16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     48.3         47.3        46.9             33.2         28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                82.0          78.0       76.0              48.4        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.7           7.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.3          46.6       45.6              38.9        37.8         33.8
MALE                                   52.7          49.3       48.6              48.6        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                 49.8          43.9       42.6              28.4        20.9         1.7.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.0          1.1        1.2               1.2         1.3           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 /h          23.8 /i   14.                17.3        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9 /h         49.7 /i   42.21              45.6         48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /h           6.1 /i    7.6 *J             6.5         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h          15.9 /i   19.               17.3         15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..     120.0             140.8       155.9         191.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       90.0             112.8        97.9         193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..               ..       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       93.0              76.8        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       11.0              27.7        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                   *'           *'      28.0              40.4        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most pupnllated country iEu each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends ox availability of data and is not oviform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; fur 1970, betweex 1969
and 1971; and fur Must Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia 6 Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Incoge ($281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Imoue
($551-1135) per capita. 1976);   /f  1962;  ,'g  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan area;
/h  1962-63. /i  1968; /j from preliminary data for 1975-76.  Due to lack of data on national basis, the
*ethodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income groups and
understates incomes of high income groups. Thus this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
September, 1978



Annex I
Page 3 of 6
KEY TO COITNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME GROUP/a
...cs EwrpTuWe w-
Vegiow/Tr,o-e Group                Low  ecom-e/b                     Lower Middle                Ieermedgate Middle                     Uppaw Middle           High ISe-um/f                 Cetnriea
lecwite/o                    Ierox/d                              IIrxaa/e                                        Oil Exporter-
Barie                   Maloci             Argole                   Char.                                   Djibhuti                  GCbon
Bruedi                 Mali               Betsawes                 I-ory Coast                             Reu-ioe
Ceetral Afrie-  Ep.   Meranbique           Cerrooa                 Mauritius
Chad                    Niger             Cape yards                Namibia
Cuworoa                 Recede            Corgo, P.R.               Seyohbles
Ethiopia                Sierra Lawne       Squatoriat Suiea
AFRICA SOCTH          Chia, The                SOmwlia           Liberia
i        OF SAH5 RA            Gitets                   T-eeawiu          Mauriterie
Cwi.ee-Bi...u           Togo              Nigarie
Kexys                   l7g-ode           Rhodes ia
Lea-tho                 Upper Volta       Sle  T-e & Principe
Mwdaga.awr              Zeire              Se-agel
Bodes
aSa.il-ed
Swzila
Zambia
NOETH GORICO  Rgypt                       Merares                   Algeria                                 Bahraix                    I.aral                     KRci t
NORTH AFRICA             -    .ese ..                                                      Iarder                                  Cram                      Oe                          Libra
AND MIDDLE            Y-    PiD.R                                                         Syrie- AR.                              Iraq                                                   QetEr
EAST                                                                                       Tunisia                                LnhmN                                                  Bawdi Arabia
Exited Arab Ernie
Afghbaiswa-             Maldi-as
SOUTH ASIA            Bhutar                  Nepelter
Borne                   Sri Lanbk
Iedia
Cax.bdia                                 NBe  Hsbridea              Chis, Rsp. of                           Fiji                       Asarirar SBam-
EAleA Indweesie                           Papxa New Guinea          Cilbert Taisada                         Berg Kong                 Brueai
EAST ASIA             Lew P.D.R                                  Philippines              KtEa-, Rp, of                                                      Feasebh Poynasia
Solom1on  -alads                          Theielad                  M..xe                                                             ruam
Viet Non                                  To.ge                     Malaysia                                                         NBe  Calsdemia
llesorn Saws             Crust Territory of the Parifit                                     Siagapers
Haiti                            -        Bolivia                   Aewigux           lus ae                Argeetire                 BBamhs
El Seloder              Belite            Jamaica               Barbada                   BNarm.da
L~~~~~TIN ~~~~~~~~Grenada                                                 Chie              Daie                  BeiI                       CaxatPea
LTIN AMERICA                                                    GCyned                     CeI-bie           Ni.rargus           Fbra r    uil .a            Mrtaisieu
AND CARIBBEAN                                                   HBAdurex                   Coats Rica        Paragaey             Ceadtelnpa                 Varssta
St. Viroer               loIiw             Peru                  Natbalmelel               Virgi  Islas(..
CDaial.-n Rep.   St. Kite-Newis        Pe-ae
E-uador           St. Loris            Pnuert  Rine
Trinidad & Tebege
Urugna-v
Turaky                                 Cyprns                     Che..o  Islards
Tal  of Max               Passes1Isleads'
EUROPE                                                                                                                            Malt                       Cibr.lt-e
_                                              Rora ~~~~~~~~~~~Pn ina     GCrenases
A.-tralis         Finland                       Itely               Heres,                  United Stersa
TNSTRIALIZED          AuSa riF          Fra                           I lapse             South Afriox
COUNTRIES             Balgino           Gernamy Fad. RSp. of          Lu-xobour-           ew-den
Ca-eda            I-eisad                       Netharleada         Switzerlend
De-nsrb           Iraleed                       See Zeasled         United KingdoA
Alh-i.            Gre  SD    Rap.           USSR
Bulgarie          Hungary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    Chin- PR. of    Kore S Dm  Rp. of
ECONOMIES             Cuba              Monfolie
C.seeslhvakia   Poland
aI  se.d  e 1976 CNP par cepita in 1976 US dollars.
7b  5280 or less per wepie.
/c   28t1-S50 par eapite.
'd $551-1135 psere pies
Ia  $1136-ES25   par ca pita.                                                                                                                                                                        VPD
/f  .e.r $2500 pew -apita



Annex I
DEFINTITIONS OF qOCIA0. 1NDICATORS                                                                   Peo             
Mac. *--wuu.ghthe date are dtw   in   or es enra11, pdged the no8t authoritative andirelIable, it should also he n.otd that they nay not be inter-
-;;-I>7  c-p-rable becau.e of the lako  standardized definitiona end concepts seed hy different countries to collecting the data.  The data are. nonetbelesa,
*e,   3--o'ibe orders of magnitude, irdicoce trends- so.d oharactenio, certain melor differanen,.  hetwe  co...              ns
hoK adi-sted groan  vr.eras Lot each indicsc.-  -r  populocion-vigbted geo  rscic .oons. noc~iuding the entreme valoe  of the indicator and the moat
populated coutry io each group.  Coveag  xi  -ootrles ossog rho indicators depends on aveilahility of date and in cot uniform.  Due to lack of data,
groo p -.avaegs for Capital Sorplos Oil Eopo-tere and indicotcrs of access to water and rocreto disposal, hoasing. income distribution and poverty are
clupl  nrplacio-eeihtsdge trnic meas- without the oc         lnof extreme valusa.
2.-hAjZA (thousand eq. his)                                                              Population pen hospital bsd - total, urban. end coral - Population (total,
f7tal - Totel sarfece era. comprising land .a.reand inland wtr,urban, sad rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bade
Agricultural - Macat recant estimate of agricultural urea used teomporarily                  available  in public and private general and epeclalisad hospital end ne-
orpereanently for crops, patre.arke: and fitchen gardens or to                          habilittation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
f.rc  ao-                                                                               at least one physIctian.  Establishmenta  providting principally cuatodiel
oats are not included, Rtonal hospitals, however, include health end medi-
TCA   511$   I GNP per oapita estimates at cucoent matbet prices.             cal -,otere not permanently staffed by a physictian, (hut by a medical ca-
ouolciby name ccvaaonmthod uo Wdutli beck AtLas.  19731-77 basis);                  sitoot,  -uruc, midwife,  trc.) which offar in-patient anooemdsniom  and
11)6i, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provIde a limited rang. of medical facilities.
Admcolns  arhoeita  be  -Total num ber of admissions to or diochargee
UEMiI CONSUMPflTION PER CAPTTA -  nna  cousumption uf cmsoal nergy                            from  hospitals divided by the number of baed.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, .uclnsr and geo-
thermal electricity) in bilogrema, of cal1 equivalent per oapitu.                    HOUSING
Average sloe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION A.ND PITAL STATISTICS                                                           /A household conniats of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Tota  'puplation, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not avoillable,                    end their main meals.  A hoarder or lodger may or map not be included in
soerageS of ta en- year estimates; 1960. l97L, and 1977 data,                             the house.hold for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban populat ionforceot of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
ti,on; different definitions of urban areso may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total. arhan, end rural - Average num-
of data amng coantries.                                                                   benr of persons per room is all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per ~eu  ko. - Mid-year population per square kilome.ter (100 hecraree)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to alectricitL_(osront of dwellings) - total. urban, end rural -
Per so. h. agrticulture lenud - Computed as above for agriout-rol land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as parcentege
only.                                                                                     of total, arhan, end rural dwellings respectively.
Populat_ion_see structure_(percent) - Childr,en (0-li years). working-age
(15-hi years), and retired (65 years aod over) as peroenteges of mid-                EDUCATION
yesr population.                                                                       Adjusted  Eenrllment retina
lpul.ation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban, - Compound annual                    Primary ePhoI   total, end female - Total and faemle enrollment of all agee
growth ratee of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         an the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
19b0-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (pear thousend) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different length. of primary edacetian; for countries with universal *Su-
mid-year peywiatiom; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may emceed 105 percent since some pupils ens below or
1970 and fIva-year averge ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                        above the officie1 school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Aonual deatis  par thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - totel. and fenele - Computed as above; secondary eduac-
year populetion; ten-year erithastic avera,es ending in 1960 end 1970                     tion requires at l.eat four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fiv.-ysa- avrage ending in 1975 far moat recast estimate.                             vldee general vc.ational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gro-  -!o ~ton. - _Averge number of daughters e woman will hear                       uscully of 12 tn 17 peers of ege; cosrrespondence course  are generally
in hen anreI neprductlv- period if she experiences present age-                           sexcluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averagas eoding in 1960,                    Vocetional enrollment (percent of sacondary) - Vocational institutiona  in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programa which operate independently
Famiy cinnin  - acepors, annua  (thousends) - Annua  number of                        or as depertaeote of secondary institutions..
a-csptos of birth-control devices under auepices of national family                    Pucil-tescher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stndente enrolled in
planning program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in thet corns-
family planning -_user  (percen.t of married women) - Percentage of                         aponding level..
married women of child-hearing age (15-il years) who use birth-control1                Adult literacy_oats _(orcent) - literate  adults (able to reed and write) as
devices to all maried woman in sane age group.                                            a percetage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
fiOli ulit NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
mdcof fpod  rodution par capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger oars comprise motor car.
capita annuol prod-oni- of uli food co-dities.                                          sea ting le.. than sight persona; ..ac1ludas abulance., hearses and military
-o  "Dpit  supyo aois(percent of requirements) - Cmpnted from                             vehicles.
energy eiuct-f net food supplies available in coun.try par cApita                      Radio recivers   e   huad  nuein                  All types of receivers for redia
7-ct day.  A-ailabln  upplies comprise domeatio Production, imports less                broadcsetn to general public per thousand of population; excludes unliceea"d
exnports, eod changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, needs,               receivers in countries and in years wham registration  of radio s.ta was in
quantities used in toad prcsigend loses- in distribution.  Re-                          affect; data for recet year. may non be csmpsrabl.  ams meet ouantrias
quiremanna were estimated by FAO base.d on physiological needs for non-                 abolished licensing.
el activity end health considering envir.omenta1 temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousend-population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gnertL
weights, ags and sex distributions of populatio..  and allowing 10 per-                   public par thousand population; excludee unlicensed TV receivers in noun-
cat for waste at house.hold level,                                                        tries and ia years when registration  of TV sate was in affect.
per canine supply of protelt     gami    e  dy    Protein content of per                 Newspaper circutlation (per thousand population) - Shows the average ciccula-
capita net supply of fond pen dey.  N-r aupyly of food is defined asion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined a. a periodical publi-
above.  tequlremente for all countries established ho cISDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording geonra1 news.  In i. considered to
a minimum  allowance of hi greams of total protein per- day and 2C grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
oanimal and pulse prtoreo  of which10  r-mn should he animal protein.               Cinema ennual attendance Perc asitin  oar pear - Based an the number of tickers
T'esa atandards are lower than thoac of 75 grams of total prtntln and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and ombile
23 gram   of acleal protein as an.vrg  for the  -cli, propo...d by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Pond Purvey.
Pot  apit  motls eippl  fin  emisi ad puse -Protein supply of food         MI0T14EP5
mr-s-' from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                       Total labor force (thousands) -  cnmtal   rive Persons , including arme,d
-1 .7mrtaLtt~rre(ertouad  - Annual deaths fpr th-u-                           forces end uneployed but secluding housewIves, students, etc.  Defini-
, gtp..-up 1-4 years, no chi'dren in thin age grcut.                                  tione  in vari... countrIes are not com parable.
femle_(p2rceoc) - Femle labor force  as percentage of total labor force.
LF 'a 0-                                                                                  bArloolt_-n_(percent) - Labor force is f.aring, forestry, hosting and fishing
Lil       hik.iS0(ysr)- Average number of yeors of life                                as percentage of total labor force.
--- rg us cloth; usually five-pear averages ending in 1960, 1973,                      Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
uro .3                                                                                    electricity, walter and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant noclfyrte(ertosaod) - Annual deetbe of infants under                              Percpno   ae(ecn)-total, male, and female - Total, male, end
ocyerar of age Per thous.ead live birhts.                                               female. labor force an percentages of their respective populations.
ooeto scfm  mater (percent of saulwsnias) - Ltotl, urban, and rural -                    These are ILO's adjosted p-rticipation rates reflecting sac-sec
N-bor of PeoPle (total, urbn, end rural) with reasona.ble access to                       stranto- of rho population, ond long tine trend.
safe water supply (Inludes treated surface waters or untreated bun                     Ecossnic dependency ratio - Rario of Population under 1) and 6) and over to
urcootaninated water such as that from protected boreholme, springs,                      the lahor force in eg. group of 15-hi pears.
u-d souitury wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
uu   rhus area a public fountain or staedpoet Ioceted not none                    INCOME DIITtIoCTION
thus 2)0 meters from  a house may be conaidered as being within ce-                    Pretgofpiaeoce(bhinasadhn)cceed by richest 5
soca bin  --cc   of that houae.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 per--t, and poorest 4O percent
imply chat rho housewIfe or members of the household do not barn to                       of hou...holds.
speod a dieproportionate pert of the dsy in fetching the family's
wator oneds.                                                                          POVERT'Y TARGET I,ROIPS
Acces t  anontsdisposal (Percent of  Eouain           .oal   ra.ed                  itinue   abouepoet   ncm   a                  (U1$ eer capita) - urban and rural -
roo1 - Numbor of people (total, urban, and meal1) aarved by excrte                           Absolute PoocrtY incom  lo-1nist that inom          .lvl below  which a minixa
diopo...lIus paroestagee of their respective populetions.  E.oreta                         o-tritionally adequate diet plus essential oon-f-od requirements is nat
dinyxoul nay include the collection end diapo..al, with or winhoan                         ff-cduhle.
tretment, of huma  excreta and waste-water by water-brine nystemo                      Estimatdreltvpoeyinooerl('    ercia)-ubnnd  rural -
no coo. uo of pin privies and similar Inetallationa.                                       iRluti-n  p--ety inoe -eel is that income level less then sne-thlrd
Pxouiatooar_hyscin- Population divided by, somber of pratixing                               per capita pe-nnn1 incon.. of the country.
phoc iccano quuiified from  a medical school en onivraty lo-e.                         tEtimated populton. hbo  oet  nom   ee   prcn)-ubn  n   ua
Poyoljioio  per nui.ningperson - Population divided by number of                             Prccopuuuix(urban nod rural) wh  are either "bsolute poor" or
s-..oticing male sod fem..lo gruduate curses. prscti.sl nuse,  o                           "`-otio- poor"  hicioer in groato.t
Econoic and Social Pate Diviaion
Etooonic Analysis sod Projections Department



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                    Est.                 Projected                       Growth rates (Z)              1975 share
1965       1970       1976       1977      1978        1979       1980        1985   1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90  of GDP (Z7
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1.  Gross domestic product          6,843.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,685.5  18,022.2  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7              7.7       7.8       7.1       7.0        100.0
2.  Gains fruit terms of trade        -44.3        42.8    -507.7    -978.1    -629.0    -572.9    -533.8    -518.2                                                      -3.2
3.  Gross dumeotic income           6,799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707.4  17,393.2  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5    7.2                 9.5       7.3       7.0         96.8
4.  Imports                          1,659.9   2,989.4   3,699.1   4,460.8   4,700.6   5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.8    8.6                6.7       6.7       6.8         23.5
5.  Exports - nolume               -1,593.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506.9  -4,145.1  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1               -0.3        8.8       8.7         24.2
6.  EIports - adjusted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.8  -3,516.2  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3    7.1                    5.2      10.0       8.8         21.0
7. Resource gap - adjusted
for TOT                         111.0      671.9      398.4      932.1   1,184.5   1,174.7   1,112.1          577.5                                                 2.5
8.  Totai co-sumption               5,302.3   8,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,839.7  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9              7.3       9.4       6.2       6.1         74.5
9.  In-estmest                       1,608.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,738.0   5,187.2   5,530.8   8,062.0    8.5               10.2       7.6       7.5         24.8
10.  Nationsl savings                 1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,603.0   3,970.7   4,300.3   7,037.7             6.4       9.5      10.0       9.6         22.1
11.  Doncstic savings adjusted
for TOT                       1,497.2   2,358.7   3,495.5   3,337.1   8,553.5   4,012.6   4,418.7   7,484.6             6.9       9.7      10.9       9.3         22.2
12.  GDP at current US$              4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3                15.2      14.9      13.4
B.  Sector Output
(Share of GDP)                   4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3               15.2      14.9       13.4
1.  Agriculture                        0.391       0.346      0.301      0.281      0.272      0.264      0.258      0.229
2.  Industry                            0.208      0.227      0.269      0.288      0.296      0.304      0.309       0.335
3.  Sernices                           0.401       0.427      0.430      0.431      0.431      0.432      0.432       0.437
C.  Prices (1975 = 100)
1.  Export price index                 46.43       48.04      91.65      89.35     103.13    113.40      123.48    172.32    5.6         12.7       7.2       5.1
2.  Inport price index                  47.76      47.15     105.75     114.12     121.58    130.03       138.71     185.20    7.5        6.7       6.1       5.0
3.  Termo of trade index               97.22      101.88      86.67      78.30      84.83      87.21      89.02       93.04   -1.8        5.5       1.1       0.1
4.  GDP deflator (US$)                  59.22      63.39     103.64     108.82     116.07     124.22      132.42    189.21    5.2         6.8       7.3       6.0
5.  Annual average exchange rate    20.80          20.80      20.40      20.40
D.  Selected Indicators                          1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                     3.56      3.32      3.80      3.97
2.  Import elasticity                        1.09      0.87      0.95      0.97
3.  Average mational savings rate            0.24      0.20      0.23      0.26
4.  Marginal national savings rate           0.18      0.25      0.32      0.35
5.  Imports/GDP                              0.27      0.26      0.26      0.26
6.  Investment/GDP                           0.27      0.26      0.27      0.28
7.  Resource gap/GDP                         0.04      0.06      0.04      0.01
Va1oe added /b                          Labor furce /c                      V.A. per worker /b /c
E.  Output, Labor Force and Productivity in 1975                  US$ million               Z                Million  f                             US$ /            of average
1.  Agriculture                                                   4,559              31.3               13.4               75.7                340                 41.5
2.  Industry                                                      4,442              30.4                1.4                7.9              3,170                356.7
3.  Serices                                                       5,588              38.3                2.9               16.4              1,930                235.4
Total/average                                              14,589             100.0               17.7             100.0                820                100.0
F.  Public Finance (% of GDP)                     1965       1970       1974       1975      1976        1977/a
(Central Government)
1.  Current revenue                          13.5       13.8       14.5       13.6        13.4      14.6
2.  Tam revenue                              12.3       12.5       13.5        12.0       12.1      13.3
3.  Curcent expenditures                     10.5       12.6       10.7        12.1       13.0      12.5
4.  Budgetary savings                         2.9         1.2        3.7        1.5        0.4       1.1
5.  Total public investment                   6.5        7.7        3.8         4.9        5.3        5.4
G.  Fuel Imports (Current US$ millions)           65.0      112.0      628.6      711.7      833.7      923.0
(Z of total imports incl. NFS)                8.3        8.0       18.4       20.0        21.1       19.7
/a Preliminary.
/b  At current market prices.
/c  Estimate.



--                aoooo.o z.0 o  0=   =                                              cOoc                    0             0000      oOcoO.              0         -  0    -  -
0.000.00.0                          oo           aa                  00. 00=0  0                   00.0    SOAK        SOI 0=  0 00
=0       =0              =  ==0.0   0.00.  -
0 0             =00                  ==0-00co'= ;0-j V:<:t1K  
00010 00000.000000
00.0  =oo = =o.=o   ojo  0                                                          0000   0..  =0000 00 0 000 00
0 =   0= 0000.000.00  00  000,,  00- 0                                             0.000.00000.0  00000 0
0            0'0-==  0'0     O00   00,         oo           .              ooo  ,.           00   00   =00.00          00000.0
=  =                  Hoc      00.0    00.    000         00   00000      0,    0,c  =  =
0  0                  0=0      =0.0=   =0.   0'  .o             0.00=                             a      ,            0      0  0    0  =0.  0
0 -                 =00  0=00 0  = 0000000 '='0.0  0o0  00.000=0  o  000000000  5
'0              000.0 0000    00.0   00000000                                     0  0 00   0.00. -
0                          000    0-0=    -=        =!-                                                         ====                           0      00
0=   ""0000   nO.                         0-00.0  0   -                     0         I
o  0            00=000   00        0.-c     oo.    o            =      ccc   =  -                                   000                         0. OOoOoor              ooo 0
00      0.                                c-tO'  00      o            0.                    00  0.         000      000000                           00   0   ...==0
0                       000000.0                0            0      o.0  0.  0    00  0.        =  0    0
0-0.          0                       '0     00000           0            0       0        0    0    0         0        0  0  00                          000  0    00
00                             00.      0          0                  =  0  ft                               =    'ft
0      0000          0.                       00    00-  0.           0                     0.    o.    0    0.                  0  =  0
00     0o0.,0     0    =
00.000.0-    0    =                         00       -    0                        0  0  0
0    0.    0                     00
00,                                                      00000    0                           0.0      0    0.    =
0      0-0.           0                       '0,    0  0             =                     0      0    0    0
0                       0c-      000.0..        0                   00       o    a
00       00&0         0                   .00      0    0.   0
00     000            0                       Oc       0000.         0                     0.           0    0
0.0      '0.0'          0                   0.      ,0.   0=    0
0.0                     0                         0         0                                00       00         0
0.0       00            0                   00       0..
00         00                               000.
000       =                                00.
1
00         00                               0.oo
0=                                              00
I   I  -          00                         -                                                          I.    -
00=0-    0.                   0,0    -        I   0.0.     I            I    -  II   I
0000            0.=   00  0..- 00     00.0.00000.0.000.00                   0000000.000.0,0., 00
00000=00=0    0.0.0.    0.0.   0,0.0000   0000,0OoOo,,o    -0000    0000cm 0=00,00.0.o    00   000.0.0000000      '0.000   000.  000.0000.0.0000000
- -        -000.0.0.   Jo                     00000    =0=    00000.00    00000.000000    000000    000,=000000,0      H    00 000=0.0.00        0.0000   0000  00  .0000.00   00,0=,
0 - - 0. 0,0
000.000.0.0000.000.0.00            0.  00        0.  0.00
0000000000    0.0.0.   0.0   0.0.0.0    o0000000    000000.000000.0.0.000    00   0.00000  000000000.0.                    000.  0.0.00. 000000.000.
0.0.     0.  0.  0.          0.0.   0.000.000.00             0.     000.  0000     00   00000.   0.  000.   000000      00  0000000.0010.0.0.
0.  000.000000=    0.0000   000.   0.00000    0.000.0000.    00.0    000.0000.0.000.0    00   0.000.0000.0.    0.0000    000  0.  0=00.00.   000.00
00       0.0.  0.                   K                                              000000000    000000   00              0.    00  0.  -            0.0.    0.'          00      00       000.00
00       00000000000000.0.0.00                                                     00       .    0.  0.                          .                  I                     0
0                                           0.0.       0.  -    0.         0.0.   000.0.0.000    .         000.   0000  000.     0    00000.    000000    0.0000      00  0  00  000000    000000
0.                                      0000000000    000.0.   0.0.   000.0000    0.0000000000.000.        0.000000.0.00.0.0    00   00.0.00  0  0.00    00000    0000.00000000.   00.00
00                                                                                          .    00.0.
00000000.,,,.    000000   0000    0.0.0.000.0.0.0.0.00    0000    0.00000.0.00000       0    0.0.0.000-00         000.0.    00.00   0.00000.0  000.0.          00   OH
00           0.  -                           0                  0                      0                0-.
000.100000    000-    000.           0.00    00    000.          0.0.    0.00.         00      00   0  000000
0.0.0.0.      00  0.  0.          0.      00000000           .    000    0.00  0.0.     00   0.0.000,,0000.    000000         00000.00000.00   000.00
0000000000    000000    00.0.0.0.00000.000,0000ft00              =00000.0.0000.00000.000.000.00                  00000.    000  00  0.00000000.  0.0.0
00000.000.00    00000    0.0    0.00000    00000.0.000    00.0    0.0000.0.00000        0    0000.0.  00  000.   0000,    0.0.0.0000.000.00   000000
000000.0.0000000000.0.00,000.0.                                 0.00  0.00.   0. 0    0 0 0 000
0.0.0.0.    0.0.    0.         0.0.   000.0.0.0000       .    0000   000  0000      00   0.000.0.  00  00=    000000      00  00000,00000.   00000.
0000000.000.    000.00   0.0.   00.000.    000000000.0.    000.    00-00000.00.0000.0.0000,0.0000000-                       0000.00000000.0.0000,
00000000000000000.00000.00                00000000000    0000    000000000000000        0    00000.0.0.0.0.    00000,    00.  00  0000000.00  0.000.
000.                           0.    0.                                        0.               0.0000
00000.000.    0.00.    0000   0.0.  0.00     00  00  0.0.0.000.    0.000           0.  00      00       000.0.     040       00
0.0.       000.0.   0.         -0.    0.0.00000.0.    .  0    000.00  000.0.0.00    00  00  0.0  00  00        000000     0.  0=  0.0.00000.0  000.0.
0.0,0.00000    00000.   0.00    00.000000.0.0000.    00000    0.0.00000000.0.0.00.0000   0  0.0.   000.00    000  00  00.0.0.0.00   00000
0000000.000.0.0.00.0.000000   00000.0.0.000.0.00  000000000000000000.00000.0.0,000.000.o00  0.000
00   0.  0.0.0=0.00       000.00    0.  0.       00.00.  0.000
00    0  0.0.  00  00.    ,o00-      0  00  000.0.0000,0  0.0000
0    0.0.00.0.0           0.0.0      0.  0,      00.0.0.0.0.0
0.   00=000  0.  0000   000.0.    0.00000000000.0.   0.0000
VA
0            0-    . 0.           .        00 00.--
00    000.00.000.    0.000           0.  00  0.  ,=000.00  00000



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1978) /a
Loan or                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                           Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                 Purpose         Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-five loans/credits fully disbursed               388.9     -   5.5         -
822     1972       RTG                   Education       15.4     -      -      7.8
864     1972       TOT                   Telecomm        37.0     -      -      4.8
870     1972       RTG                   Highways        28.6     -      -      1.5
369     1973       RTG                   Education          -      -  19.5      7.0
461     1974       RTG                   Irrigation         -     -   7.0       2.1
977     1974       EGAT                  Power           75.0     -      -    24.0
992     1974       IFCT                  Industry        12.0     -      -      1.1
1021    1974       MWWA                  Water          55.0      -      -    18.4
1149    1975       RTG                   Irrigation    95.0       -      -    79.9
1198    1976       RTG                   Rural Dev.         -  21.0      -    15.1
1199    1976       RTG                   Livestock          -   5.0      -      4.6
1243    1976       RTG                   Rubber          50.0     -      -    45.4
1253    1976       TOT                   Telecomm       26.0      -      -    13.2
1271    1976       RTG                   Education       31.0     -      -    27.5
1327    1976       IFCT                  Industry        25.0     -      -    21.5
1393    1977       RTG                   Agriculture   28.0       -      -    26.5
1468    1977       RTG                   Irrigation    55.0       -      -    52.1
1485    1977       EGAT                  Power          50.0      -      -    45.2
1492    1977       IEAT                  Industry         4.8     -      -     4.6
767     1978       RTG                   Population        -      -   33.1/b 33.1
1519    1978       RTG                   Highways       110.0     -      -   104.9
1527    1978       PEA                   Power          25.0      -      -    25.0
1556    1978       RTG                   Housing          8.6     -      -      8.6
S-10    1979       NGOT                  Energy           4.9     -      -      4.9
Total                                      1,125.2  26.0   65.1  578.8
of which has been repaid                  179.7    -        -
Total now outstanding                        945.5  26.0   65.1
Amount sold /c                      68.5
of which has been repaid          34.9     33.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA               911.9  26.0   65.1
Total undisbursed                            516.9  19.7   42.2
/a  Loan 1620-TH of $90 million to the Telephone Organization of Thailand was
signed on October 4, 1978.
/b Of which $3.1 is NORAD grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978) /a
Amounts ($ million)
Year          Company            Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                 0.30       -      0.30
1964   IFCT                      Industry                   -   0.38      0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group         Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00       -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund               Capital Market
Company Limited                                   -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing            2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries    2.00        -     2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials          -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers        4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials       36.00   4.00    40.00
Total gross commitments                         73.98   8.97    82.95
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         48.33   2.56    50.89
Net held by the Corporation                     25.65   6.41    32.06
Total undisbursed                               35.85   4.25    40.10
/a An equity investment of $150,000 in the Thai Orient Leasing Company was
signed October 6, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1978)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Prolect (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972; Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: July 31, 1980
This project involves development of Kasetsart University and the
relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical assistance
and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule, civil works
are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and
equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to: (a) an initial
15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an 18-month delay in
completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in contracting civil
works. The situation of contract awards is improving: all civil works
contracts and about 50% of equipment packages have been awarded, and the
remaining equipment packages will be contracted in late 1978. Construction is
progressing well, and the specialist services program under the project is
nearly completed. All the fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have
completed their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates
by 36%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Prolect; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973: Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. Procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed. Expansion
of the local telephone network has also been substantially completed. Delayed
procurement of long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan
will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action on all components of the project has been
substantially completed. Civil works are in progress. Local network expansion
is expected to be completed as per schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's
delay in tender award for transmission equipment under a bilateral loan, the
long-distance network expansion for the project is only expected to be completed
by September 1980, nine months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of October 4,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Loan was signed on October 4, 1978.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973: Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976.  Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Loan declared effective on June 22, 1978.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule through
initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment.
During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace
of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984. A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for the project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with four pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of
the Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed
and the next phase is continuing. Consultants have recently been appointed
for the RID Administration and Organization Study.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow start-up, the upland crop
component is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with most
staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There is already some
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is about one year late because the scope and cost of the proposed
civil works program was larger than envisaged at appraisal and allowed by the
Budget Bureau. A reduced construction program was agreed to and rebidding is
in progress for works in eleven provinces. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program. Both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to come on schedule during 1979.
Extension and civil works consultants provide DAE with excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977: Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan S-10      Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million of
July 28. 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Loan declared effective on September 25, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months would be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with the increased
operating costs, shelved by the previous Government, have been withheld by the
new Government pending general improvement in water supply.
Loan 1556-TH   Bangkok Sites and Services Prolect; $8.6 Million of June 15,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Loan declared effective on September 22, 1978. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978: Current Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million of February 27. 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is satisfactory.






ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND NORTHEAST THAILAND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Approximately one and
one-half years: January 1975 - August 1976
(b) Agency which prepared the project: The Royal Irrigation Department
with consultant assistance (Tahal, Israel)
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: The need
for the project was identified during appraisal of the Northeast
Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project (March 1973) and feasibility
studies were financed under that project. Preappraisal of the
project took place in March/April 1977.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1977. Government and
Bank agreed to defer processing of project pending review of
progress on Stage I project. Supervision mission in March 1978
found progress satisfactory.
(e) Completion of negotiations: August 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: February 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i) prepare, by June 30, 1980, a plan to meet Korat's water
supply needs and take all necessary steps to ensure plan is
implemented in a timely manner (para. 40); and
(ii) employ consultants under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank and IFAD (para. 41);
(iii) submit to the National Assembly, no later than June 30,
1980, legislation enabling the Government to assess, impose
and collect appropriate charges from beneficiaries of all
irrigation projects (para. 48);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv)  submit to the Bank and IFAD for review and comment, no later
than December 31, 1980, proposals for establishing appropriate
level of charges to recover costs from project beneficiaries,
and within three years of completion of on-farm works,
impose and collect such charges (para. 49);
(v)  appoint Project Engineers in each of the project areas by
December 31, 1978 (para. 50);
(vi) make satisfactory arrangements to have the Lam Pao and
Lam Takhong dams inspected periodically (para. 52); and
(vii) ensure that BAAC makes available sufficient staff and funds
to meet the credit requirements of farmers in the project
areas (para. 54).
(b) An additional condition of effectiveness is fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan (para. 43).



IBRD 10305R1
>>                                -ee                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 17
NORTHEAST, THAtLANDAUST17
W OtATIOPC FTS
1- I ERE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~LOPOPE$Dt    E
~~~~~~~~~NONGKHAI:    
T,s   p l OE       Huai                         a ' t
q C<<__        ~~~Luang    ,     DOTHAN]   Oon~                                  2{"  wAPSIm
.   /tO no otende of Or, r          I                    | Pung\.
.,.'    ,~~It repr to toWO             I   \oft1ocred                                                  .
' ) \d /,l thoot, O\ .rt  ro
00 r   OPon t                                                                LAO PEOPtE'S DEM. REPt 
<O2'             I_        /                    KALASIN
_KHONKE    -iG                                     .                 /    >         f    .. .  
. ,^ D A W , Yrzng 9 < ^ - ,.>~Na
,.*CH    At              /                                           I         
X  -;am Phra                              ;/                   R     N  G                    -vRN,N
am   * 1h;.               K La ~~~~~~ tJ
<   /   M  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
-14-~~~~~~~~T, -P                     *-, b- '-.               :                        .     '.   ,
To  BANGKOK                dVer/t -m/t -1dn -hf  of th- .'    '',               ,,         -   .r
,.9- b lb 'W -:. '   ..'  






J>
,9' __,   O .  ,,    prensoccc            C, f                                                                                                              1'THAILAND
Qocr   r        e.                                   i~~~~~ PCNORTHEAST IRRIGATION PROJECT II
ec0  oclk%                                                     AL MP0
D AM                                                                                           LAM PAO
>   12          1   1            t,    ,//        %            __                                         )                                  - 7    r' .  Proposed crigolion proictcreos
-ce--- -  ,Prorenone  ma ,n cCOc -s
Th-                        'eoeeeoT-
I           0       Be\~X  Sn Nc KDng  ci-                        4, <                     i      U Otc None so.                .                                             ProevoUs irrgoHor projeol areas
rneo 2ftc  Toe 0   .s           .M                   839   r  npgc    g4,                            ,                            ~      -'Ma in cooas
.  '/   '   '   "-  >\9   '  Ga       i'       V                                                                        _____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Vilogoeeoc
-   /  /n;s                              /~~- ~ 9                     ,             W
7-                   /N'         'x> -'-  >_K                                              ht                      --'        '2                                                                       |    
ycrc     2'                       / imT                                          u                                                          ame n/A   
NIgK,                                                                            KA  f                                                                  i    .e
~~~cyKcr~/,  znon                                Wo  @hk J2    ;i                                               AZ? t   \                          g Nor Nzgc_ __                             <_   9en Murng
&Be. LcrrKcbo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~CS.N.   h
8    Ch'                                                                              cAir
Uj~~~Y SI THON ~ ~       ~        ~        I 
,,   r.2-     <                       rBr   Nrwg M ek~~~~-           o   g  _   _   _  _   _  _   _   - o n s P n g                      tBIlnensece,ng  tZo                      dne_m m ecew
\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~eem  mc Fec                                     ,      Rcrn~ -                                      cieoea 0N<                                                                                        tP i -c HeonBrW_ _
.   g       ,     ,>._        ,   ryBrnN m~  ~~~~ic i    icg   Me        o urg           ,} B                                                    Orn   Leens -r  g                    '   B n s n  ~ ~ _l           A   i
thurdlA NcclNo.                             '(                                            _e werTnecsd. r#mv.,Xi.g    
_   1_.  it EGfPOEEK   Dh.~   .                               5,,, W8e,>b AOR..........e +!13ja  
N    NNC2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IN                                                   ~          KCm
*ccoroc CocOA         '                                          "           02                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y.,
WeeSce .fe,~,o   K-';8a  h                                                                                                                                       ci- K 
Khrcc,rre,r ..2c                   nc~8 8--                                                                                                           ot          A:            -
ecoiccico  Orrcricoro,ce  ccc    i                                      --                                                                                      -I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-BQ- H- B.2                                                 Oc
'LieBv        'c rce                                                                                                                         o 
occcicrcn. e'iccpcccror                                                                                                         8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K-
B. N-q C  t~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'c
c/N/OcNcoPeRr  r'errrnceo cic.ccccceecre   p         -    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ASA






rBRD13080R
THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AUGUST 0-
NORTHEAST IRRIGATION PROJECT II
LAM TAKHONG
I ~~~~~~~~~~~-- Eaising ma n ca:nois                                                                                                                                                                                                                           \LO9o TUbe/4'
- --- - Proposed main canals\                                                                                                                                                                                              \ C
_----  - Existing diversion does                                                                                                                  <                                                                                                                 \ ,U\U snU@
Proposed d version dams
Roods ____ Roads
Ear Rowoysr                                                                                                                                                                                                                  v      
7W:                      t er                                                    supply pip n .   /  <v
/~~ /                                                                                                                                                                                                - 
o~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ io  00                                                                                                                                                               .,
POOTIA S  1  15                                                        LA\S'
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                         k      i         o   10-  2P5sonUtefs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K
0  5  10  T; =d''e't~0'E0dbKh.2' @P                                                           s S.f inmn nyh 5gap % _oTL20Ate
MILES                                                                   t#uet YMx.Sgen||on>i wZliltSl=L  Peof of hWoNLDetardsmIf>tsce  d g !2 gKL YRAT  



