Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14882
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3278-CO)
JULY 24, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1994)
Currency Unit: Pesos (Col$)
US$1: Col$831.27
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYALM,
Apertura             Economic and Trade Liberalization Program
CONFIS               National Council for Economic and Fiscal Policy (Consejo Nacional
de Politica Econ6mica y Fiscal)
CONPES               National Council for Economic and Social Policy (Consejo
Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social)
CORELCA              Atlantic Coast Power Corporation (Corporaci6n Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica)
CVC                  Regional Corporation of the Cauca Valley (Corporaci6n Regional
del Valle del Cauca)
DNP                  National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n)
EMP                  Economic Modernization Program
FERROVIAS            National Railroad Company (Empresa Nacional de Vias Ferreas)
FVN                  National Roads Fund (Fondo Vial Nacional)
ICEL                 Colombian Institute of Power (Instituto Colombiano de Energia
Electrica)
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
ICT                  National Construction and Mortgage Institute
INV                  National Roads Institute (Instituto Nacional de Vias)
IDB                  Interamenrcan Development Bank
IDEMA                Institute for Agricultural Marketing (Instituto de Mercadeo
Agropecuario)
INURBE               National Institute for Urban Reform and Low-income Housing
(Instituto Nacional de Vivienda de Interes Social y Reforma
Urbana)
ISA                  Electric Interconnection S.A (Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.)
HIMAT                Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Metereology and Land
Preparation (Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Metereologia y
Adecuaci6n de Tierras. Currently Instituto Nacional de Adecuaci6n de
Tierras -INAT-)
PPES                 Performance Plan and Evaluation System
POs                  Private Operators
PSRL                 Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRP                 Public Sector Refonn Program
RPSs                 Regional Port Societies (Sociedades Portuarias Regionales)
SP                   Superintendency of Ports (Superintendencia de Puertos)
TELECOM              National Company of Telecommunications (Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface.i
Evaluation Summary . ..............................................................                                                                             ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment.1
Statement/Evaluation  Objectives ...............................................................1
PSRL Objectives .                      ..............................................................1
Background ..............................................................1
Macroeconomic  framework ............................................................                                                2
Economic Modernization Program  (EMP) ..................................2....
Statement of Objectives ..............................................................                                               2
PSRL  Amendments and Modifications .                                          .........................................              3
Achievement of Objectives ..............................................................                                                          3
Ports  Sector Reform  ...................................                               ...........................                  3
Shipping  Sector Reform   ..............................................................                                             4
Low-income  Housing  Reform   .........................................................                                              4
Agricultural Marketing  Reform                              .......................................................                  5
The Performance Planning and Evaluation System  (PPES)    ..............                                                             5
Privatization of Public Banks                                                                                                        5
Macroeconomic Performance.                                                                                                           5
Major Factors  Affecting  the  Project .......................................................                                                     6
Project Sustainability  ........................................................                                                                   6
Bank Performance.                                                                                                                                  7
Borrower Performance.                                                                                                                              8
Assessment of Outcome.                                                                                                                            8
Key Lessons Learned ........................................................                                                                      9
Future  Operation  ........................................................                                                                        10
Ths docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
|[offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Part I1. Statistical Annexes ....................................................................................
Table  1.Summary  of Assessments .................................................1......                                              1
Table  2. Related  Bank  Loans .........................                              ..............................                   13
Table  3. Project Timetable ....................                              ...................................                      13
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................                                                         14
Table  5. Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .....................................                                             14
Table 6. Key  Indicator for Project Operation ...............................................                                          14
Table  7. Studies Included  in  Project .......................................................                                        15
Table  8A. Project Costs .......................................................                                                       19
Table  8B. Project Financing ......................................................                                                    19
Table  9. Economic  Costs and  Benefits ......................................................                                         19
Table  10. Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                           20
Table  11. Compliance  with  Operational Manual Statements ...........                                          .............          21
Table  12. Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................                                      21
Table  13. Bank  Resources: Missions .......................................................                                          21
Annexes
1. Economic Modernization Program  Macroeconomic Targets .........                                                ..........          22
2. Government Revenues from Privatization and Concessions .....................                                                       23
3. Macroeconomic  Results ..............................                              ..............................                  24
4. Performance  Plan  Briefings ...........................................................                                           25
Appendices
Memorandum on progress in implementing the project for the release
second  tranche  ......................................................  Appendix  A
Memorandum on progress in implementing the project.
for the  release  of the third  tranche ......................................................  Appendix  B
Borrower contribution to the ICR
* Final Evaluation  Report prepared  by  the  Ministry  of Finance .................... Appendix  C(i)
* Final Evaluation Report on the Technical Assistance ComponentC
prepared  by  the National Planning  Department ........................ ............... Appendix  C(ii)



i
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Colombia Public Sector Reform
Loan (3278-CO). The US$304 million equivalent Colombia Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) was
approved on December 28, 1990, and made effective on March 28, 1991
Of the total Loan amount of US$304 million, disbursements in the amount of
US$303,793,307.06 had been made as of June 30, 1995. The Loan has not been closed as of the
issuance of this TCR. The last disbursement, corresponding to a single previously authorized expenditure
of approximately US$205,000, is expected to take place and the Loan is expected to be fully disbursed
not later than August 31, 1995. At that time, any remaining balance will be canceled and the loan
closed. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed 3/4/91. Subsequent tranches
were released on 5/28/92 (second tranche) and on 12/23/93 (third tranche). Cofinancing for the project
was provided by IDB in an amount of US$305 million and by a US$1 million equivalent Japanese Grant
Facility.
The ICR was prepared by Felipe Saez and Natalia G6mez of the Colombia Resident Mission,
with statistical annexes by Adrienne Taptich, and was reviewed by Krishna Challa, LA3PS Chief, and
Robert Crown, LA3 Project Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendices
to the ICR.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the
mission's aide-memoires, preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution, and commenting on
the draft ICR.



I



i.
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3278 - CO)
COLOMBIA
Evaluation summary
1.          Despite growth performance of about 3.41%  during the 80's, the Colombian
economy experienced low and frequently negative productivity growth in most sectors. In 1988,
the economy showed signs of downturn, due to reduced international coffee prices and a
deterioration in the domestic investment climate. While the Government undertook significant
adjustment measures to respond to these negative developments, it also recognized the need to
address longer term structural problems to move beyond stabilization and accelerate growth
through structural reforms in the public, trade, and financial sectors aimed at improving efficiency
of resource allocation. The Colombian Government consequently launched a medium term
Economic Modernization Program (EMP) aimed at increasing long term productivity and
accelerate growth of the economy in 1990.
2.          The objective of the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) was to support both the
macroeconomic framework of the EMP and the public sector reforms envisaged under the
program. The concentration of the Bank's conditionality on the public sector was deemed
strategic to ensure the sustainability of the EMP, to enable the Government to meet its
macroeconomic objectives, and to promote a supply response by the private sector to the new
incentive framework. In addition to the assistance provided through the PSRL, the Bank
supported the implementation of the EMP through investment lending operations, technical
?.--t^ance, and economic and sector work in the trade, agricultural, and financial sectors.
Project Obiectives
3.          The main objectives of the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) were twofold.
The PSRP sought to improve productivity in the use of public sector assets through: (a) the
establishment of a performance planning and evaluation system aimed at modernizing the
management of decentralized public sector entities, and (b) the privatization of public assets in the
financial and industrial sector whose continued holding by the public sector was no longer
justified on strategic or policy grounds. The program also aimed to improve efficiency in resource
allocation and use in sectors traditionally dominated by the public sector to promote a supply
response to the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) through (a) the elimination of public or
quasi-public monopolies in the railways, ports, shipping, low-income housing and agricultural
marketing sectors, and (b) their replacement with incentive structures promoting freedom of entry
and a competitive sector environment.
4.          The $304 million PSRL had two components: (i) a policy-based, quick-disbursing
component divided into three tranches of US$100 million each; and (ii) a technical assistance
component with an original allocation of $4 million. A US$300 million parallel IDB loan also



iii
supported the policy-based component. The technical assistance component was cofinanced by a
US$5 million IDB T.A. Cooperation Facility and a US$1 million equivalent Japanese Grant
Facility. The loan has not been closed as of the issuance of this report. As of June 30, 1995,
US$303.8 million out of an originally approved amount of US$ 304 million had been disbursed.
The loan was not closed in response to a request by the Colombian Government to accommodate
an investment banking contract for an innovative Build/Operate/Transfer (BOT) infrastructure
scheme. After a US$205,000 disbursement for this contract expected not later than August 31,
1995, any remaining balance would be canceled and the loan closed.
Implementation ExDerience and Results
5.          The objectives of the PSRP were fully met, and, in many areas -- i.e. ports,
shipping and banking -- the Government exceeded the originally envisaged reform objectives. As
a result of the PSRP, there has been improvement in productivity in the use of public sector assets
and gains in efficiency in sectors formerly dominated by the public sector. In ports, for instance,
there has been a 52% reduction in tariffs and an overall productivity increase of 60%. In shipping,
the increase in participating shipping companies has resulted in a substantial increase in the quality
and quantity of services available to users --operating companies in Colombia increased from 45
to 200--. In low-income housing, Inurbe tripled the annual average of housing provision as
compared with ICT's performance during the last decade. These results were obtained with an
increase in private and public investment in the sector of only 68% during the period 1991-94,
compared with the previous 4-year period. The actions taken by the Government in the area of
bank privatization radically modified the ownership structure and improved the competitive
environment in the financial sector. Banco de Los Trabajadores, Banco Tequendama and Banco
del Comercio were brought to the point of sale and their divestment completed between June and
December 1991. The program of privatizations and concessions to the private sector contributed
towards generating a fiscal surplus in 1994. In that year, the total Government intake was about
US$1,800 million equivalent through public sector assets divestiture and privatization in the
financial, power, gas, telecommunications, industry, tourism and coffee sectors -- and on cellular
telephone, television and airport concessions, respectively (Annex 2).
6.          The Government also met the loan objective of introducing the Performance
Planning and Evaluation System (PPES) as an instrument to rationalize relations between the
Central Government and decentralized entities. Performance plans were used to ensure adherence
of public entities to sector objectives and to evaluate public sector managers performance. The
performance plans were oriented to (a) pricing of sector goods and services based on economic
efficiency criteria and cost effectiveness in the operation of public entities (i.e. Ecopetrol and
Telecom); (b) limiting the role of the public sector to cases in which there were strong policy
considerations or market failures (i.e. Inurbe, Himat, and Ferrovias), and (c) allowing free entry of
the private sector in a competitive environment in those sectors where the Government decided to
maintain a presence (i.e.- petroleum, telecommunications, railways and ports). About 36 public
entities entered into the PPES (three times the initial target set forth under the loan). The
Government's decision to expand the use of performance plans throughout the public sector
required some institutional adjustments



iv
7.           The loan component for providing technical assistance for the formulation and
implementation of public sector reforms, was also successful. The Government's request for
augmenting the amount originally assigned for technical assistance constitutes an indication of the
Government's satisfaction with the demand-driven technical assistance component provided under
the loan.
8.           The high degree of ownership of the Gaviria administration to the PSRP led it to
assign a high priority to the Program's legislative agenda and obtain its expeditious approval.
Thereafter, the Government had the field relatively clear to implement the specific sector reforms.
However, delivering the reforms in terms of actual institutional and regulatory changes implied a
sustained and coordinated effort at all government levels. Challenges related to reform
implementation should not be underestimated. For instance, the process of liquidating Colpuertos
was arduous due to pressure from the unions and lack of coordination between the sector
Ministry and Finance in defining the severance and pension costs, and the process of opening of
the telecommunications sector to competition was aborted as a result of a one week strike by the
workers of the long distance public monopoly, Telecom
9.           The Bank played a very active role in the process of defining the components and
reform objectives for the program. During implementation, the Bank provided periodic inputs
through discussions on the various technical assistance initiatives proposed for financing both to
the Bank and IDB. There was a cooperative and highly constructive relationship with the IDB.
Summary of Findin2s, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
10.          An assessment of the results derived from the various reform initiatives show that
there were substantial positive results on the ground that have had a significant impact in the
performance of the public sector and have benefited the private sector in Colombia.  The
performance planning and evaluation system has led to a culture of improved planning and
accountability in the main public sector enterprises. The reforms in ports and shipping have
eliminated highly inefficient monopolies and generated a new field for private sector participation,
resulting in improved supply and quality of services at lower prices that have benefited the
Colombian economy as a whole. The changes in low income housing led to a more transparent
and equitable method for distributing government subsidies, improved leveraging of public
resources through contributions of beneficiaries and the private financial sector, and allowing
participation by the private sector in the provision of housing in a market segment that had been
closed to competition. In the area of agricultural marketing, despite partial backtracking, there
were significant benefits derived from the opening of the import market of selected commodities
to the private sector and the attempts to rationalize public sector intervention in the sector.
11.          The main lessons learned from the Colombia Public Sector Reform Project are:
*  The key ingredient for the success of an adjustment program as ambitious as the PSRP is a
high degree of ownership and priority assigned to it by the authorities and their willingness to
invest their political capital and technical capability in pursuing the program's initiatives.
*  The Bank should minimize rigidities in loan conditionality by emphasizing subtance over
specific modalities and being open to loan restructuring if needed. Policy objectives pursued



v
by the loan were defined in substantive terms with few prescriptions on means of
implementation, and flexibility was built into the timing of reforms through floating conditions
and identification of entities for performance plans by defining selection criteria.
Providing a mechanism in the project design for countries to take advantage of regional
expertise is a useful tool for implementation. A key analytical basis for the design of the
reforms was expertise derived from similar reform experiences that were taking place or had
been carried out in other Latin American countries.
* Access to demand-based technical assistance funds facilitated Government success in
exceeding expectations in terms of scope and depth of reforms in most sectors. Under the
PSRL, the Bank defined a very general scope for the activities eligible for financing and
defined on a case by case basis the suitability of the Government's requests based on their
relevance to the PSRP. This demand-based approach proved highly effective in filling the
technical gaps faced by the authorities in the formulation and implementation of the PSRP.



PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(Loan 3278-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    PSRL Objectives. The Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) was an adjustment operation
aimed at supporting the Govemment's Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP). The main
objectives of the PSRP were: (a) to improve productivity in the use of public sector assets
through: (i) the establishment of a performance planning and evaluation system aimed at
modernizing the management of decentralized public sector entities, and (ii) the privatization of
public assets in the financial and industrial sector whose continued holding by the public sector
was no longer justified on strategic or policy grounds; and (b) to improve efficiency in resource
allocation and use in sectors traditionally dominated by the public sector to promote a supply
response to the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) through (i) the elimination of public or
quasi-public monopolies in the railways, ports, shipping, low-income housing and agricultural
marketing sectors, and (ii) their replacement with incentive structures promoting freedom of entry
and a competitive sector environment.
2.    The US$304 million PSRL had two components: a policy-based quick disbursing
component divided into three tranches of US$100 million each; and a technical assistance
component with an original allocation of US$4 million. A US$300 million parallel IDB loan also
supported the policy-based component. The technical assistance component was cofinanced by a
US$5 million IDB T.A. Cooperation Facility and a US$1 million equivalent Japanese Grant
Facility.
3.    The loan has not been closed as of issuance of this report. It is expected to be closed
August 31, 1995. As of June 30, 1995, US$303.8 million had been disbursed. The loan amount
originally approved was US$304 million. It was not closed in response to a request by the
Colombian Government in order to accomodate an investment banking contract to assist the
Government in developing and marketing a Build/Operate/Transfer (BOT) scheme for the second
runway of the Bogota airport. Upon signing of the BOT contract, a success fee of US$205,000 is
to be paid the firm. After the US$205,000 disbursement expected not later than August 31, 1995,
any remaining balance would be cancelled and the loan closed. The authorization of the LAC Vice
President for retention payment was given based on the good progress and performance on the
contract, the innovativeness of the scheme and potential to serve as a useful model internationally,
the strong interest of Colombian authorities in gaining extension of the deadline of the success fee
payment as the loan was the only available source of financing, and the desire for the Bank to be
responsive to the needs of the Government on a highly successful venture with the private sector.
The authorization was consistent with OP 13.30 (para. 4).
4.    Background. The Colombian Government launched the medium term Economic
Modemization Program (EMP) to increase long term productivity and accelerate growth of the
economy. Despite growth performance of about 3.41% during the last decade, the Colombian
economy experienced low and frequently negative productivity growth in most sectors. In 1988,



2
the economy showed signs of a downturn, with growth slowing to 3.7%, inflation increasing to
28% per annum, and the current account and fiscal deficits increasing to I and 2 per cent,
respectively. The underlying difficulties faced by the economy were further accentuated in mid
1989 by two adverse developments. First, the demise of the International Coffee Agreement
reduced international coffee prices by half Second, the assassination of the leading presidential
candidate by the drug Mafia triggered a generalized conflict with negative effects on the
investment climate and on fiscal balances due to expenditures on increased security. While the
Government undertook significant adjustment measures to respond to the shocks, it also
recognized the need to address the longer term structural problems to move beyond stabilization
and seek accelerated growth through improved efficiency of resource allocation and use. The
EMP was approved by the highest policy making body in Colombia in February 1990. The Gaviria
administration, which took office in August 1990, reaffirmed the Government's commitment to
the objectives of the EMP, publicly announcing its intention to implement reforms more
aggressively.
5.    Macroeconomic Framework. The EMP included macroeconomic policies designed to
increase productivity, raise economic growth to about 5-6% annually, slow inflation to below
20%, and reduce poverty. The structural reforms were underpinned by a medium term
macroeconomic framework based on continued pursuit of prudent macroeconomic policies and
implementation of an active foreign exchange policy. (Annexes I and IA). The objectives and
targets pursued under the framework were communicated by the Government to the Bank and
monitored jointly by the Bank and INMF under semi-annual enhanced Article IV Consultations.
6.    Economic Modernization Program. In addition to the macroeconomic objectives and
targets referred above, the EMP proposed a set of structural reforms in the public, trade and
financial sectors. The centerpiece of the EMP was the trade policy reform program which, in the
first phase, would seek elimination of quantitative restrictions and their replacement with
equivalent tariff protection and, in the second phase, would reduce the level and dispersion of
tariffs. In addition, the EMIP included the PSRP and complementary financial sector and industrial
restructuring policies..
7.    Bank Strategy. In addition to the assistance provided through the PSRL, the Bank
supported the implementation of the EMP through investment lending operations, technical
assistance and economic and sector work in the trade, agricultural and financial sectors. An
industrial restructuring and development project and a project to support privatization and
restructuring of the industrial development bank (IFI), were approved to assist in guaranteeing an
adequate private sector supply response. Proposed lending operations and sector work in the
infrastructure sector, i.e. power, transport, water supply sanitation, were targeted at improving
efficiency in public investments in these sectors.
8.    Statement of Objectives. The objectives of the PSRL were to support both the
macroeconomic framework of the EMP and the reforms envisaged under it for the public sector.
Although the PSRL did not contain specific conditionality on trade policy, the Bank monitored
progress in the trade reform under a parallel track. By the time of Board approval of the PSRL,
the Gaviria administration had accelerated the implementation of the original trade reform targets
envisaged under the EMP. The concentration of the Bank's conditionality on the public sector
was deemed strategic to ensure the sustainability of the EMP, both in terms of enabling the



3
Government to meet its macroeconomic objectives as well as ensuring an adequate supply
response by the private sector to the new incentive framework. The involvement in public sector
reforn -at the time, the least developed component of the EMP- enabled the Bank to assist
effectively in designing the priority objectives of the PSRP.
9.    PSRL Amendments and Modifications. There were no changes introduced to the
policy-based conditionality included in the PSRP. The technical assistance component was
amended in the early stages of project implementation to ensure its responsiveness to the demands
by the Government in the formulation and implementation of public sector reforms. The
amendment expanded the scope of activities financed under the Loan by making eligible for
inclusion any activity which, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, would further the overall objectives
of the PSRP. The closing date was extended twice. The first extension up to December 31, 1993
was required to meet delays related to the fulfillment of policy conditionality. The loan was
extended a second time until December 31, 1994, to enable the government to complete technical
assistance disbursements that were deemed critical to conclude public sector related reforms. This
second extension was derived from a request by the government to increase by US$3 million the
technical assistance component, leading to reassignment of the amount from the third tranche of
the quick disbursing component of the Loan.
Achievement of Obeectives
10.   The objectives of the PSRP were fully met, and, in many areas, i.e. ports, shipping and
banking, the Government exceeded the originally envisaged reform objectives. As a result of the
PSRP, there has been substantial improvement in productivity in the use of public sector assets
and gains in efficiency in sectors which were formerly dominated by the public sector. In ports, for
instance, there has been a 52% reduction in tariffs and an overall productivity increase of 60%. In
shipping, the increase in participating shipping companies has resulted in a substantial increase in
the quality and quantity of services available to users --operating companies in Colombia
increased from 45 to 200. In low-income housing, the National Institute for Urban Reform and
Low-Income Housing (TNURBE) tripled the annual average of housing provision as compared
with ICT's performance during the last decade. These results were obtained with an increase in
private and public investment in the sector of only 68% during the period 1991-94, compared
with the previous 4-year period. The program of privatizations and concessions to the private
sector contributed towards generating a fiscal surplus in 1994. In that year, the total
Government intake was about US$1,800 million equivalent through public sector assets
divestiture and privatization in the financial, power, gas, telecommunications, industry, tourism
and coffee sectors -- and on cellular telephone, television and airport concessions, respectively
(Annex 2).
11.   A secondary objective of the loan, providing assistance for the formulation and
implementation of public sector reforms, was also fully successful. The Government's request for
augmenting the amount originally assigned for technical assistance constitutes a clear indication of
the Government's satisfaction with the demand driven technical assistance component provided
under the loan.
12.   Port Sector Reform The Government carried out a far reaching restructuring of its port
sector, more ambitious than the policy objectives under the loan. An institutional and regulatory



4
framework for the port sector was established that allows free competition among public and
private operators, including a uniform tariff regime for private sector operators, a uniform
compensation scheme for the use of public resources and facilities, and a transparent system to
grant licenses to port investors and operators. The new regulatory framework permitted a clear
division of responsibilities and functions between the (a) Superintendency of Ports (SPs),
responsible for sector planning and regulation, granting concessions and rights of use to private
investors/operators, setting infrastructure use tariffs, and ensuring a competitive environment; (b)
Regional Port Societies (RPSs), responsible for the administration and maintenance of public port
facilities, and (c) Private Operators (POs), responsible for the stevedoring, loading, unloading,
transferring, pilotage, tugging and vessel handling functions. The new port institutional
framework was fully operational in the four main public port terminals (Cartagena, Barranquilla,
Santa Marta and Buenaventura) by third tranche review.
13.   The success in setting and implementing the port reform stems from the decisive
liquidation of Colpuertos. Colpuertos' performance plan focused on inter-governmental
coordination to ensure the timely liquidation of the company. The process of liquidating
Colpuertos was more costly and arduous than expected, due to difficulties in dealing with labor
unions and lack of coordination among the authorities involved in the process. Even so, the
replacement of Colpuertos' operators did not generate major disruptions in the handling of
import/export traffic. By now, there are clear indications of significant improvements in efficiency
and cost savings in port operations.
14.   Shipping Sector Reform. The Government undertook major reforms towards the
liberalization of its shipping market that exceeded the tranche conditionality. The reserve quota
system was fully eliminated and the free access of foreign vessels to Colombian ports was
permitted, by virtue of Decree 2327 of October 1991. This liberalization process brought
substantial improvements in the supply and quality of shipping services. The number of companies
operating in Colombia increased from 45 to 200. The pricing of shipping services in the
Mexico/USA corridor decreased between 30-35%, while rates to Europe remained constant, and
a slight increase was shown in the routes to Japan. This result was explained by the continued
dominant role of shipping alliances on the routes to Europe and Japan. Finally, all freight
remittance ceilings for foreign shipping companies were eliminated through Law 49 of 1990; a tax
withholding rate of 12% of freight receipts was established as the sole tax liability for these
companies.
15.   Low Income Housing Reform. In early 1991, the Government obtained legislative
approval (Law 3) for the liquidation of the National Construction and Mortgage Institute (ICT),
the public monopoly for the provision and financing of low-income housing. INURBE, ICT's
legal successor, was stripped of ICT's direct building and financing functions. INURBE was
assigned the sole responsibility of administering the housing subsidy and the provision of
technical assistance to municipal and housing associations. Under the new sector framework, the
Government replaced the subsidized housing loans with up-front cash grants to eligible low-
income beneficiaries (31.217 subsidies were awarded during 1991). The housing subsidy was
adequately targeted (66% of subsidies were awarded to family groups with an aggregate monthly
income less than US$200 to finance housing units costing less than US$2.000). The financial
sector's response in providing the matching financing was positive. During the first eight months
of implementation of this policy, 398 housing projects with a total of 40,000 units were registered



5
at INURBE. The previous financing scheme for low-income housing based on forced investments
by the private sector was completely dismantled. The housing subsidy was mainly financed from
fiscal revenues.
16.   Agricultural Marketing Reform. The Government undertook a far reaching reform in
agricultural trade, aimed at enabling market forces to play a more determinant role in the pricing
of agricultural products. In early 1991, through Law 7, the import monopoly of the Institute for
Agricultural Marketing (IDEMA) on key agricultural products, as well as the system of import
quotas managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, were terminated. A tariff-based protection system
replaced the highly discretionary protection system, combining (a) a free-import regime based on
price bands for some primary products (i.e. wheat, barley, rice, maize), their substitutes or derived
products (about 60 customs positions), and (b) a free-import regime with fixed ad valorem tariffs
ranging from 0 to 35% on all other agricultural products. The private sector rapidly assumed an
active role in agricultural marketing. Faced with demands from domestic producers for protection
for their products, the Government sought to respond in a way that did not undermine the core of
the reforms. Nevertheless, the Government issued Law 101 at end-1993, which increased
IDEMA's intervention in agricultural trade.
17.   The Performance Planning and Evaluation System (PPES).Preparing, negotiating and
monitoring performance plans absorbed most of the staff and resources of the Consejo Nacional
de Politica Economica y Fiscal (CONFIS), severly limiting its fiscal policy formulation role. In
addition, CONFIS's role in formulating performance plans undermined the control of the
Ministries in setting sector policies. As a result, in March 1993 CONFIS transferred responsibility
in the preparation and monitoring of performance plans to the Ministries, retaining authority to
define policies applicable to performance plans, to oversee their implementation and evaluation,
and to directly manage performance plans with entities that had special fiscal or policy significance
, such as Ecopetrol, Telecom, Idema and Colpuertos (For detail on performance plans by
instituion, see Annex 4).
18.   Privatization of Public Banks. Government actions in this area went beyond loan
condition requirements. The actions taken by the Government in the area of bank privatization
radically modified the ownership structure and improved the competitive environment in the
financial sector. Banco de Los Trabajadores, Banco Tequendama and Banco del Comercio were
brought to the point of sale and their divestment completed between June and December 1991.
The first two Banks were sold to foreign investors following a competitive bidding process, at a
price 50% above the estimated commercial value, and 1.6 and 3 times their book value,
respectively. In the case of Banco del Comercio, 71% was sold to a domestic investor through a
competitive bidding process, and the remaining shares sold through private offerings and the stock
market. This Bank was sold at 161% its estimated commercial value and 2.9 times its book value.
Banco de Colombia and Banco del Estado were the only two nationalized banks remaining under
state control by third tranche release. Banco de Colombia has been fully privatized. The
Government also initiated the process of divestment of Banco Cafetero, which has been partially
transferred to the private sector. The total private sector share of commercial bank assets had
increased to 77% by end 1993.
19.   Macroeconomic performance. The macroeconomic situation was jointly assessed in
collaboration with the IMF, through semi-annual monitoring missions. Overall macroeconomic



6
performance was consistent with the objectives of the EMP, enabling the country to sustain
economic growth while reducing inflation and improving its balance of payments position. The
strong capital inflows experienced by Colombia during the period 1992-1994 changed the nature
of the macroeconomic adjustment originally envisaged in the program and presented the
authorities with a new set of challenges. The medium-term macroeconomic framework
contemplated at the appraisal of the PSRL envisaged a declining fiscal deficit, a strengthening of
the balance of payments, maintenance of a high level of international reserves, and an
improvement in external indebtedness indicators. The fiscal deficit declined more rapidly than
projected. Developments in the external sector were substantially more favorable than
expected, with international reserves targets well exceeded and external indebtedness ratios falling
more rapidly than projected (Annexes 3, 3A and 3B). Despite the stronger than expected balance
of payment performance, the Government decided to draw on the loan proceeds to finance fiscal
requirements in part related to the cost of the PSRP reforms.
Maior Factors Affecting the Project
20.   At the time of approval of the PSRL, it was indicated that the major risk related to the
implementation of the sector reforms was the need to obtain legislative approval of the changes
proposed in the ports, housing, agricultural marketing and shipping sectors. Although, in case of
failure to obtain legislative approval, the Government had defined alternative strategies, these
were considered second best solutions since they would imply compromising some of the reform
objectives and undermining the Government's political initiative to push the reforms. The high
degree of ownership of the Government to the program led it to assign high priority to the PSRP-
related legislative agenda. In fact, by January 1991, the Gaviria administration had obtained
passage of all the legislation related to the PSRP reforms, overcoming a critical hurdle for the
implementation of the reforms.
21.   Thereafter, the Government had the field relatively clear to implement the specific sector
reforms. However, the challenges and the difficulties related to reform implementation were
significant, greater than anticipated by the Government. The difficult choices faced by the
administration led to delays in the implementation of some of the reform programs, reflected in
the postponement in the implementation of the PSRP by about one year. The process of
liquidating Colpuertos was arduous, as a result of pressure from the unions and lack of
coordination between the sector ministry and Ministry of Finance in defining the severance and
pension costs, which led to a significant increase in the costs of liquidating Colpuertos. The
process of opening the telecommunications sector to competition -an activity financed under the
technical assistance component- was aborted as a result of a strike by the workers of the long
distance public monopoly, TELECOM, which left the country without external communications
for almost one week. The liberalization of the agricultural marketing sector, including the
restructuring of IDEMA (the public marketing agency), was subject to significant conflicts within
the Government team.
Project Sustainabilitv
22.   Most of the reforms promoted under the PSRP have shown a high degree of sustainability.
The performance planning and evaluation system has been generalized as a management
instrument to rationalize the relationships between the Central Government and the public



7
decentralized entities. Although it is difficult to quantify the incremental benefits generated by the
use of this instrument, there are cases -such as the power sector- in which the introduction of
performance plans has enabled monitoring the performance of companies, ensure their adherence
to macro and sector policy objectives and ensure management accountability in public sector
companies.
23.   The reforms in the ports and shipping sectors have generated savings in transport costs
and time, as well as improved service to importers and exporters. All regional ports companies
have developed into self-sustaining, profit-generating enterprises competing for the provision of
quality port services to traders. This is in contrast with the bloated, deficit-generating
bureaucracies that prevailed in the sector only two years ago. Port handling capacity has been
expanded through efficiency gains and the responsibility for port expansion investment has been
assumed by each of the privatized terminals. Shipping service supply has been expanded through
increased participation of both foreign and domestic lines in generating savings and improving
service quality and frequency to importers and exporters.
24.   The privatized banks have generated increased competition in the financial sector and are
operating in a level playing field with the rest of the banking institutions. The reforms in the low
income housing sector have also generated improvements in efficiency in the use of public sector
assets and have increased private sector participation in the financing and provision of low income
housing.
25.   The only area in which sustainability has not been reached is in agricultural marketing.
The original decision by the Government to remove IDEMA from intervening in the import and
marketing of sensitive farm commodities has been modified by a series of decisions aimed to
provide price and marketing support to domestic producers, issued in response to protectionist
demands.
Bank Performance
26.   The Bank played a very active role in the process of defining the components and reform
objectives for the program with the Government. The policy dialogue during preparation was
instrumental in defining priorities and the overall objectives to be pursued in the different fields.
During implementation, the Bank provided periodic inputs through discussions on the various
technical assistance initiatives proposed for financing both to the Bank and IDB. The flexibility of
the technical assistance component and the efforts by the Bank to provide timely response to the
Government's demands in this field contributed significantly to develop a fluid and constructive
dialogue with the Government in the implementation of the reforms.
27.   The PRSP was developed without the benefit of preparatory sector work to help in the
identification and design of the various components. The program was consequently developed on
the basis of an intensive policy dialogue with the Government and development of consensus
regarding the areas of the public sector which were considered strategic to improve the sector's
performance and to facilitate a supply response to the Economic Modernization Program.
28.   The PSRL was cofinanced with IDB. Given that this was one of IDB's first quick
disbursing adjustment loans, the Bank played a leadership role in the design, negotiation, and



8
supervision of this operation. There was a cooperative and constructive relationship throughout
the process with the IDB team, who substantially shared the Bank's judgment in the preparation
and later supervision of the PRSP.
29.   The Bank carried out effective supervision of the reform initiatives undertaken under the
PSRP. Assessment of progress in the implementation of the PRSP was carried out jointly with the
IDB. Bank recommendations regarding the release of tranches were discussed and agreed with
IDB in every case. In the field of macroeconomic management, the Bank's supervision was
carried out jointly with the IMF. As a result of difficulties in the implementation of some of the
components (i.e. ports and agricultural marketing), there was a delay of about one year in the
implementation of the PRSP.
Borrower Performance
30.   The Government showed a high level of commitment to the implementation of the PRSP
at all times. The Government was successful in obtaining legislative approval for the key reform
initiatives included in the PSRP, thus eliminating most of the political uncertainties related to the
reforms. Thereafter, it was able to put together highly competent technical teams responsible for
the day-to-day implementation of the reforms. The Government effectively utilized the advice of
foreign and local experts in formulation and implementation of the reforms. The technical
assistance components of the Bank and IDB were intensively utilized to finance such
consultations. On occasion, there was lack of coordination among the various parties within the
administration involved in reform implementation, stemming sometimes from legitimate policy
divergence's and others, from lack of a clear policy direction. This led to implementation delays
and increased costs in some of the sector reforms involved. However, overall, the Government
was able to provide a clear vision and leadership and maintain an adequate pace of reform.
Assessment of Outcome
31.   Substantial positive results from the PSRP on the ground have had a significant impact on
the performance of the public sector and benefited the private sector in Colombia. The
performance planning and evaluation system has led to a culture of improved planning and
accountability in the main public sector enterprises. The reforms in ports and shipping have
eliminated highly inefficient monopolies and generated a whole new field for private sector
participation that has resulted in improved supply and quality of services at lower prices which
have benefited the Colombian economy as a whole. The changes in low income housing provision
led to a more transparent and equitable method for distributing government subsidies, the
leveraging of public resources with the contributions of beneficiaries and the private financial
sector, and participation by the private sector in a market segment of housing provision that had
been closed to competition. In the area of agricultural marketing, despite partial backtracking,
there were significant benefits derived from the opening of the import market of selected
commodities to the private sector and attempts to rationalize public sector intervention in the
sector.
32.   The introduction of floating conditions for sector reforms and some flexibility in defining
the entities that would be subjected to performance plans was effective in accommodating the
dynamics of the reform process in Colombia. In some cases, reform dynamics led to deeper
reforms than had originally been envisaged. In the case of shipping, the Bank had required as a



9
condition of third tranche that an action plan be prepared to improve sector competition which in
the minimum would require a f-urther reduction of the reserved quota to 30%. The Gaviria
administration decided to fully eliminate the reserve quota system. In the performance plan
component, the initial understanding was that the signing of performance plans with IDEMA and
Colpuertos -which were the subject of broader sector reforms also included under the loan- would
be conditions of second tranche release. It turned out that there were some delays in
implementing the reforms for the ports and agricultural marketing sectors while the reform plans
for the power sector had been advanced. It was agreed with the Government to include as part of
the second tranche the signing of performance plans with the main power sector companies and
move to the third tranche the signing of the IDEMA and Colpuertos plans. The flexibility built
into the conditionality enabled the Bank to adjust the assessment of progress in the PSRP based
on actual developments without compromising the overall reform objectives.
Key Lessons Learned.
33.   The main lessons learned from the Colombia Public Sector Reform Project are:
* The key ingredient for the success of an ambitious adjustment program such as the PSRP is
the high degree of ownership and priority assigned to it by the authorities and their willingness
to invest their political capital and technical capability in pursuing the program's initiatives.
There is no substitute for this.
* The Bank should minimize rigidities in loan conditionality by emphasizing substance over
specific modalities and being open to loan restructuring if needed. The policy objectives
pursued by the loan were defined in substantive terms with few prescriptions on the means of
implementation of the commitments, i.e., whether legislative approvals or administrative fiat,
etc. Flexibility was also built in the definition of the timing for meeting the proposed sector
reforms through the introduction of floating conditions that could be met either as second or
third tranche and in providing flexibility regarding the entities that would be subjected to the
performance plans, provided they would meet some basic relevance criteria. The result was a
productive dialogue on the policy objectives of the reforms at negotiations and on the specific
reform strategies during the implementation of the PSRP, which contributed to success in the
implementation of the policy reforms included in the loan.
* Providing a mechanism in the project design for countries to take advantage of regional
expertise is useful in implementation. A key analytical basis for the design of the reforms was
expertise derived from similar reform experiences that were taking place or had been carried
out in other Latin American countries. The reform designs were the product of dialogue
between Colombian officials or their technical teams with experts from the region which had
or were in the process of implementing reforms in their respective countries.
+ Access to demand-based technical assistance funds facilitated Government success in
exceeding the expectations in terms of the scope and depth of the reforms in most of the
sectors. The initial intention of defining in specific terms the areas eligible for technical
assistance was abandoned at an early stage of preparation. Instead, the Bank defined a very
broad scope for the activities eligible for financing and defined on a case-by-case basis the
suitability of the Governments requests based on their relevance to the PSRP. This demand-
based approach proved effective in filling the technical gaps faced by the authorities in the
formulation and implementation of the PSRP.



10
Future Operation
34.                 There are no future adjustment operations foreseen in Colombia. The
Bank has, however, continued supporting public sector reform on a sectoral basis. It has recently
approved an energy sector technical assistance operation to further develop the regulatory
framework for the power and gas sectors and strengthen the regulatory and planning institutions
in the sector. Discussions are on-going regarding possible Bank assistance in other sectors such
as water supply and telecommunications. Discussions regarding development of mechanisms to
facilitate private provision of infrastructure are also under way.



11
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives           Substantial      Parial      Neyligibl&    Not applicabil
V')           (V)              )()
Macro policies                            L/                           LI 
Sector policies                           I/              L             L
Financial objectives                       L/                           L              L 
Institutional development                  V/             Li             0I            L
Physical objectives                        Li             L]              i            V/
Poverty reduction                           i             L             Li               /
Gender issues                               i             Li             1              /
Other social objectives                     I             LI            Li             V/
Environmental objectives                   L              Li             
Public sector management                  L/               i                            Li
Private sector development                                Li            Li             Li
Other (specify)                            Li             Li            Li             Cl
(Continued)



12
B. Project sustainability               Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
(/)              (V)                (/)
V1                D                 D
Highly
C. Bank performance                   satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
(/)              (v')               (/)
Identification                           V/                 O                  OI
Preparation assistance                    /                 n                 
Appraisal                                 /                 ] 
Supervision                              D/                 2                 L
Highly
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
(/)               (/)               (/)
Preparation                             V                  C                 O
Implementation                          $/                 D                 L0
Covenant compliance                      iI                                 LI
Operation (if applicable)                EI               LI                LI
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
V/            L              LI            LI



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                    Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Power Sector (L2889)               Support Govt Power Sector Reform         1986       Completed
2. Trade and Agr. Sector (L2677)      Support Govt Structural Adjustment Program  1986    Completed
3. Port Rehabilitation (L2635)        Port Infrastructure Rehabilitation and TA  1988     Completed
Following operations
1. Industrial Restructuring (L3321)   Increase Intn'l Competitiveness of Industry  1991   Supervision
2. IFI Restructuring & Divest (L3449)  Improve Efficiency of Public Sector Financial   1992  Supervision
Institution
3. Public Financial Management (L3669)   Improve Govt Revenue Management and   1994       Supervision
Accountability
4. Private Sector Infrastructure Finance  Facilitate private provision of infrastructure  Preparation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned                 latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                  11/89-12/89
Preparation                                                                 1/90-5/90
Appraisal                                                                  6/18/90-6/29/90
Negotiations                                                               10/29/90-11/8/90
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                               11/22/90
Board presentation                                                         12/11/90
Signing                                                                    12/28/90
Effectiveness                                 3/28/91                      2/19/91
First tranche release                                                      3/4/91
Second tranche release                        12/31/91                     5/28/92
Third tranche release                         12/31/92                     12/23/93
Project completion                            12/31/91                     12/31/94
Loan closing                                  12/31/92                     12/31/94



14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 1991           FY  1992          FY 1993           FY 1994           FY  1995
Appraisal estimate                      101.00            203.00             304.00
Actual                                  100.00            199.31             202.15           301.00            303.74
Actual as % of estimate                99.01%           193.50%             66.50%           99.01%            99.91%
Date of final disbursement   2/21/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR:
Actual
Satisfactory Progress on
1. Macroeconomic performance and exchange of views on macro policy                                 (throughout)
2. Performance plan implementation for ECOPETROL, INURBE (prev. ICT), TELECOM, HIMAT                   5/92
3. Performance plan preparation, signed and effective for ICEL, CORELCA, COLPUERTOS, IDEMA         5/92; 12/93
4. Banco de los Tabajadores, Banco del Comercio, Banco Tequendama brought to point of sale          6/91-12/91
5. Restructuring of COLPUERTOS consistent with port sector strategy undetaken                          5/92
6. Plan developed for shipping reform and steps taken                                                  10/91
7. Performance plan preparation, signed with FERROVIAS, FONDO VIAL NACIONAL, ISA, CVC              5/92; 12/93
8. Government operation of the performance planning and evaluation system in accordance with           12/93
objectives set out in Policy Letter
9. Development of action plan and beginning implementation to refonn shipping and to reduce reserved   12/93
quota on general import cargo
10. Defining strategies and plan of action for total or partial divestment of Banco de Colombia        12/93
11. Restructuring port sector according to established principles                                      12/93
12. Reform of low income housing finance                                                               5/92
13. Replacement of IDEMA's monopoly on agricultural imports with transparent and automatic system      12/93
allowing private sector to import freely and replace quotas with tariffs
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Since it was not the practice to set project operation indicators when this project was prepared and
appraised, assessment of achievement according to project operation indicators is not possible.



15
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Sector                                   Study                             Amount    Status Impact
BIRF        O1L    (2)
Global Sector POblico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento                       5,592    C       H
Global Sector POblico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ     11,067    C       H
Global Sector POblico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ     11,049    C       H
Global Sector Publico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ        976    C       H
Global Sector Publico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ      1,902    C       H
Global Sector POblico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ     10,291    C       H
Global Sector Publico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ      8,926    C       H
Global Sector POblico    Consj.Modernizaci6n - Programa Seguimiento Reforma Administ      2,341    C       H
Global Sector POblico    JNT - Decretos Ley Servicios POblicos Domicil.                  14,952    C       H
Global Sector Publico    MinHda - Estudio Cambio Estructural                             70,186    C       M
Global Sector Publico    DNP - Evaluaci6n                                                 2,927    C       H
Global Sector Puiblico   DNP - Evaluaci6n de Resultados                                  26,976    C       H
Global Sector Publico    Evaluaci6n Ex-post                                              13,720    C       H
Global Sector POblico    DNP- Seminario Evaluacion Ex-Post                                5,925    C       H
Global Sector Publico    DNP - Adquisici6n equipos de c6mputo UPRU                       11,000    C       H
Global Sector POblico    DNP - Adquisi6n equipos Proyecto                                 6,756    C       H
Global Sector Publico    DNP - Adquisi6n equipos Proyecto                                 4,307    C       H
Social-General           DNP - Apoyo Proceso Reglamentacion Ley 60                       23,404    C       H
Social-General           DNP - Regimen Juridico Ley 60                                    8,537    C       H
Social-General           FIS - Eval. proced. cofinanciaci6n Fondo FEN y FNH               6,250    C       H
Social-Salud             CONFIS - Reestructuraci6n Sistema Pensiones                      4,666    C       M
Social-Salud             MINSALUD- Comisi6n Sist.Mpales. Salud                              709    C       H
Social-Salud             MINSALUD- Contabilidad Sist.Mpales. Salud                        1,238    C       H
Social-Salud             MINSALUD- Manual de Operac.Sist.Mpales.                         20,201    C       H
Social-Salud             MINSALUD-Preparac.POA Sist.Mpales.Salud                          8,795    C       H
Social-Salud             MINSALUD-Sistemas Municipales de Salud                             990    C       H
Social-Salud             MSALUD-Preparac.POA Sist.Mpales de Salud                         6,300    C       H
Social-Salud             M.SALUD- Asesoria Prog.Sist.Mpales.Salud                         7,571    C       H
Social-Salud             M.SALUD- Asesoria Prog.Sist.Mpales.Salud                         3,028    C       H
Social-Educacion         DNP - Estudio financiero s. Educativo I                          8,811    C       H
Social-Educacion         DNP - Estudio financiero s. Educativo II                        57,840    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  CORELCA - Monitoreo tbcnico Reetructuraci6n Electrificadoras   5,871    C       M
Infraestructura-Electrico  CORELCA - Reestructuraci6n                                   108,622    C       M
Infraestructura-Electrico  CORELCA - Reestructuraci6n                                    88,440    C       M
lnfraestructura-Electrico  CORELCA - Reestructuraci6n                                    14,541    C       M
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Analisis financiero s. Electrico                         9,795    C       H
lnfraestructura-El6ctrico  DNP - Asesorla Juridica Reestructuraci6n sector Electrico     29,205    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - DisetAo y aplicaci6n proyecciones financieras            4,762    C       H
lnfraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Reestructuraci6n s. El6ctrico l1l                        1,934    C       H
lnfraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Reestructuraci6n s. Electrico IlIl Asesorfa Econ6mica    6,031    C       H
lnfraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Reestructuraci6n s. Electrico IlIl Asesorfa Financiera  10,897    C       H
lnfraestructura-El6ctrico  DNP - Reestruc. Sector Electrico                              27,086    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Regimen Regulatorio S. Energetico                    1,255,000    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  Elec.CESAR/CORDOBA - Reestructuraci6n                         22,610    C       M
lnfraestructura-El6ctrico  Elec.GUAJIRA/SUCRE - Reestructuraci6n                         26,135    C       M
lnfraestructura-Electrico  Elec.MAGDALENA - Reestructuraci6n                             13,957    C       M
Infraestructura-Electrico  JNT - Direcci6n Fase IlIl - Estudio costos distribuci6n electricidad  12,527    C  H
lnfraestructura-El6ctrico  JNT - Peajes uso redes subtransmisi6n y distribuci6n sist. electr.  7,797    C  H
infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Auditorla Evaluaci6n Prop. TERMOBARRANQ.                76,480    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP/CORELCA - TERMOBARRANQ. II                               129,735    C       H



16
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Sector                                  Study                             Amount    Status Impact
I                                                            ~     ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIRF  (1)  2
Infraestructura-Electrico    ISA - Asesorla para el desarrollo proyecto planta carboelictrica -  750,000    C  (H)
Infraestructura-Electrico  Proyectos de Generaci6n Termoelectrica                      140,000    C       H
Infraestructura-El6ctrico  DNP - Publicaci6n Memorias Sem.Sector El6ctrico              12,130    C       L
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Seminario Sector Electrico                             49,680    C       H
Infraestructura-Electrico  DNP - Taller Sector Electrico                                 6,941    C       H
Infraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Eval. Programa Masificaci6n Consumo de Gas          17,500    C       H
Infraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Eval. proy. refinerfa alta conversi6n               17,050    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Regimen Regulatorio S. Gas Natural                 235,000    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP-ECOPETROL - Tasa de Extracci6n                        15,134    C       M
Infraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Factibilidad Refinerfa Nariflo                      56,975    C       M
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos CRE-Visitas CRE Argentina-Chile                            8,256    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario Cusiana II                                 2,144    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario Cusiana II                                17,898    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario Cusiana II                                44,430    C       H
infraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario Gas                                       17,878    C       H
lnfraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario Gas                                        2,000    C       H
Infraestructura-Hidrocarburos DNP - Seminario sobre privatizaci6n comparhias estatales areas  4,655    C  H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio DNP - Implantaci6n Reestructuraci6n Telecom.                12,000    C       H
lnfraestructura-Comunicacio DNP - Reestructuraci6n s. Telecom.                           6,500    C       H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio MinComunicaciones - Reestructuraci6n                        13,000    C       H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio MinComunicaciones - Reestructuraci6n                        13,000    C       H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio MinComun. - Implementaci6n Reestructuraci6n                 47,347    C       H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio Telecom - DNP - Reestructuraci6n                           300,000    C       H
lnfraestructura-Comunicacio MinComun. - Proceso Concesi6n Telefonia M6vil Celular      491,626    C       H
Infraestructura-Comunicacio MinCom-DNP-Asistencia Comisi6n Asesora Tel. M6vil           10,800    C       H
lnfraestructura-Transporte   FVN - Auditoria                                            21,793    C       H
Infraestructura-Transporte   MOPT - Reestructuraci6n                                    64,818    C       H
lnfraestructura-Transporte   DNP - Sector Ferroviario                                  100,000    C       H
lnfraestructura-Transporte   DAAC - DNP - Asesoria Concesi6n construcci6n 2a. pista Aerop  525,000    C   H
Infraestructura-Transporte   DAAC - DNP - Concesi6n aeropuertos                        390,700    C       H
Infraestructura-Transporte   DNP - Sistema tarifario portuario                         224,606    C       H
lnfraestructura-Transporte   DNP- Seminario Aplicaci6n Software EMME/2                    439    C        H
Seguridad                MinDefensa - Reestructuraci6n                                  11,650    C       H
Agropecuario             DNP - Estrateg.Refinanc.Sect.Agrario                           17,520    C       H
Agropecuario             DNP - Evaluaci6n Sector Agropecuario                           10,773    C       H
Agropecuario             DNP - Evaluaci6n Sector Agropecuario                           14,993    C       H
Agropecuario             DNP - Evaluaci6n Sector Agropecuario                            7,693    C       H
Agropecuario             HIMAT - Reestructuraci6n                                       73,344    C       H
Agropecuario             ICA - Ases. Juridica Reestructuraci6n                          18,989    C       H
Agropecuario             IDEMA - Reestructuraci6n Financiera                            46,408    C       H
Agropecuario             IDEMA - Reestructuraci6n (enajenaci6n de activos)              73,828    C       M
Agropecuario             IDEMA - Reestructuraci6n institucional                         41,774    C       H
Agropecuario             HIMAT - Adquisi6n equipos                                   1,000,771    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        10,731    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        16,029    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        12,519    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        10,731    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        15,202    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        16,096    C       H
Trabajo                  SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                        14,307    C       H



17
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Sector                                   Study                              Amount    Status Impact
BIRF         (1)    (2)
Trabajo                   SENA - Rsestructuraci6n                                          8,942    C        H
Trabajo                   SENA - Reestructuraci6n                                          8,957    C        H
Trabajo                   DNP - Seminario sobre Productividad                             11,520    C        H
Trabajo                   SENA - 2 computadores e impresora                                6,026    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Coordinaci6n Proyecto                                     20,242    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Secretaria Proyecto                                        3,615     C       H
Financiero                DNP - Unidad Coordinadora Proyecto de Modernizacion Admon.      20,659    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Unidad Coordinadora Proyecto de Modernizacion Admon.       3,320    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Unidad Coordinadora Proy.Modernizacion Fra.-              13,506    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA-Ases.lnformat.Proy.Modern.A.Fra.                        9,960    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA-Negociaci6n Prestamo.Proy.Admon.Fra.                    2,294    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA-Revision POA Proy.Modern.A.Fra.                         2,199    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA. Macro disefio Sist.Fro.lntegr.                         2,656    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA. POA Proy. Modern.Admon.Fra.                            6,870    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA. Revision POA Proy.Modern.A.Fra.                        2,081     C       H
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - 2a.Etapa Complem.POA Ad.Fra.                        2,887    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Coordinaci6n proyecto Modern. Administraci6n Fi    37,410    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - POA Proy. Admin. Finan.                             8,795    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      4,550    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      4,067    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      8,569    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      3,106    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera     12,031     C       H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      3,863    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      7,964    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera     22,545    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera     17,824    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      4,719    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera      4,719    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6m proyecto administraci6n financiera -   17,679    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MinHda - Preparaci6n proyecto administraci6n financiera      2,470    C        H
Financiero                MinHda - DNP Proyecto Modernizaci6n Financiera                   1,307    C        H
Financiero                MinHda - DNP - Proyecto Modernizaci6n Financiera                 2,687    C        H
Financiero                MinHda - Preparaci6n proyecto administraci6n financiera - Coor  25,464    C        H
Financiero                MINHDA- Unidad Coordinadora Proyecto Modernizaci6n Financi      26,045    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Seguimiento operaciones Efectivas Gobierno Central I       5,082    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Seguimiento operaciones Efectivas Gobierno Central II     18,153    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Seguimiento operaciones Efectivas Gobierno Central 1I1    21,143    C        H
Financiero                DNP- Implant.Proy.Financ.Cred.Externo                           27,849    C       M
Financiero                DNP- Proy.Finaciados.Cred.Externo.                               2,355    C       M
Financiero                MinHda - Reestructuraci6n del Tesoro Nacional                  103,432    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Estructura Fiscal Dptal                                   17,592    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Estudio Estructura Fiscal Dptal.                           1,191     C       H
Financiero                DNP - Reestructuraci6n UDT                                       5,620    C       H
Financiero                DNP - Reestructuraci6n UDT                                       4,970    C       H
Financiero                DNP - Sistema de informaci6n distribuci6n recursos a dptos. y m  59,195    C      H
Financiero                DNP - UDT Finanzas Publicas                                      6,585    C       H
Financiero                DNP - Seminario Proyecto de Modernizaci6n Finan.                   228    C       H
Financiero                DNP - Sem. Evaluaci6n y Control Dllo. Sustentable                  865    C       H
Financiero                DNP-MHDA.Seminario Modern.Admon.Fra.                            10,627    C       H



18
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Sector                                   Study                              Amount       Status Impact
BIRF nne            (2n
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - Seminario MAFSP                                     2,374    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - Seminario MAFSP                                        82    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - Seminario MAFSP                                       549    C        H
Financiero                DNP-MINHDA - Seminario MAFSP                                       685    C        H
Financiero                MINGOBIERNO- Seminaria Corrupci6n                                8,000    C        H
Financiero                MINHDA - Curso Mercados de deuda                                   924    C        H
Financiero                MinHda - Seminario Manejo de Riesgos                            25,000    C        H
Financiero                SuperValores - "Enforcement Training Prog."                      2,459    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Adquisici6n Equipos UDT                                    6,676    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Adquisicion Equipos UDT                                    4,490    C        H
Financiero                MinHda-TESORAL - Adquisi6n equipos                              37,541     C       H
Financiero                MinHda-TESORAL - Adquisi6n equipos                              21,928    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Adquisici6n equipos Proy. Admon. Finan.                    2,268    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Adquisi6n equipos Proy. Admon. Financiera                  6,643    C        H
Financiero                DNP - Equipo Mod. Admon. Financiera                              2,864    C        H
Otros                     Distrito Capital - Reestructuraci6n                             10,598    C        H
Otros                     Distrito Capital - Situaci6n Financiera                         10,598    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Definici6n Proy. cr6dito BIRF Apoyo a la Descentralizaci6  2,878    C        H
Otros                     DISTRITO CAPITAL - Seminario problemas estrat6gicos                918    C        H
Otros                     DISTRITO CAPITAL - Seminario problemas estrategicos                106    C        H
Otros                     DISTRITO CAPITAL - Seminario problemas estrategicos              1,588    C        H
Otros                     DISTRITO CAPITAL - Seminario problemas estrategicos              2,207    C        H
Otros                     DISTRITO CAPITAL - Seminario problemas estrategicos                467    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Seminario CEPAL                                            1,891     C       H
Otros                     DNP-CVC - Seminario Control Calidad                              4,000    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Asistencia Coordinaci6n Proyecto I                        16,153    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Asistencia Coordinaci6n Proyecto Ila                       6,136    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Asistencia Coordinaci6n Proyecto Illa                     11,066    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Contabilidad - Asesoria al Proyecto                        1,285    C        H
Otros                     DNP - Contabilidad - Diseho Sistema del Proyecto                 1,031     C       H
Otros                     DNP - Coordinacion Proyecto                                     25,020    C
Otros                     DNP - Coordinaci6n Proyecto                                     15,890    C
Otros                     DNP - Seminario Banca de Inversi6n                                 329    C
Otros                     DNP - Seminario Evaluaci6n Expost                                  269    C
Otros                     DNP - Seminario Planeaci6n Regional y Urbana                     1,701     C
tros                    Devoluci6n IVA                                                   (1,375)   C
Otros                     Gastos varios 1991/92/94(l1ne 53)                                5,445    C
Otros                     Comision de Manejo PNUD                                        166,732    C
8,285,166
1) STATUS: C = Completed
(2) IMPACT: H = High
M - Moderate
L - Low



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Local       Foreign                   Local      Foreign
costs       costs        Total       costs        costs        Total
Item__                        _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
1. Balance of Payments                     300          300                   297.00       297.00
Support
2. Technical Assistance                       5           5                      6.74        6.74
TOTAL                                       305         305                    303.74      303.74
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$Million)        Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Local      Foreign                    Local      Foreign
costs       costs        Total        costs       costs        Total
Source
IBRD/IDA                                   304          304                   303.74       303.74
Japanese Grant                               1            I
Other external sources
Domestic contributions
TOTAL                                      305          305                   303.74       303.74
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Net Present Value was not estimated at the time of the SAR or the
ICR since not considered a congruous measure of effectiveness of an adjustment operation. It is believed that the
project yielded significant economic benefits through improvements in allocative efficiency and productivity in the
Central Government.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant
Agree-    Section                        type                 Present    Original                                  Description of covenant                                    Comments
ment                                                          status          fulfillment
date
Loan    I 3.01                   Monitoring                   C                5/92, 12/93   Consistency in macroeconomic performance
.               i..... .               and the program
~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .. . .. .. . ... . .. ........................   ... ... ..      .. ... .. ... . ... ..    . .. .    . ... . .. .. ... ... ... .. .. . .. ... . .. . .. . ..    .   ...... ...... ... ........
3.04a            Accounts/audits   I C                                              Maintain adequate records and accounts of
expenditures of loan funds
......................; ........................... ...................... ...........................  ........................ .........................................................................   ............ ... ...
3.04b    IAccounts/audits    C                                                      Record and accounts audited 5 mos after
tranche release and 4 mos after fiscal year end
by acceptable auditors
.    .    .   .    .   .   .    .   .    .   .   .    ................ ............................................................................ ................................................................
I 2.02             Financial                     C                                    Open and maintain Special Account in US$ in    Account
Central Bank on acceptable terms and                                   opened with
conditions                                                             UNDP
Schedule  Sector Policy                       C                5/92                 Performance plans implemented for                                       INURBE is
4                Conditionality I                                                   ECOPETROL, INURBE (prev. ICT),                                          ICT's
TELECOM, HIMAT                                                         successor
......................            ........................ ......              .......................  ......... .....................................  ......    ........................
Sector Policy                C                5/92                 Performance plans consistent with program                              Colpuertos,
IConditionality 2   I                                                objectives signed and effective for                                    IDEMA done
ICEL,CORELCA,COLPUERTOS,IDEMA                                          for 12/93
Sector Policy                C                6-12/91              Banco de los Tabajadores, Banco del
Conditionality 3                                                   Coimercio, Banco Tequendama brought to
..p.oint of sale
Sector Policy                C                5/92                 Restructuring of COLPUERTOS consistent
Conditionality 4                                                   with port sector strategy
!..........  ........                      .. . .....''''''''''                ..........  .. p''s ct rs                  a''''      ' -         ! - ' ''  ''' '''''''
Sector Policy              . C                10/91                Shipping reform
;           4 ~~Conditionality 5                       ,,;,                                 , , , , , , , , , . , ,
Schedule  Sector Policy                       C                12/93                Performance plans signed with FERROVIAS,  ISA, CVC
.. 5            . Conditionality I .                                                . FONDO VIAL NACIONAL, ISAZ CVC                                           done 5/92
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ................                             ........................  ........ ..............................    .................  .................. ...... .....
Sector Policy                C                12/93                First and Second Tranche Performance Plans
Conditionality 2                                                  being implemented or remedial action taken
Sector Policy                C                12/93                Government operation of the performance
Conditionality 3                                                   planning and evaluation system in accordance
w....ith objectives set out. in  Policy  Letter
Sector Policy                C                12/93                Action plan to reform shipping and begin
Conditionality 4                                                   implementation of means to reduce reserved
.     .                    . g~~uota on genealmort cargo
Sector Policy                C                12/93                Defined strategies and actions for total or
Conditionality 5                                                  partial divestment ofBanco de Colombia
Schedule   Sector Policy                       C               12/93             .Restructuring port sector according to
6                Conditionality  1                  .                            . established principles
Sector Policy                C                5/92                 Low income housing finance reform
Conditionality  2                                                               .        .
ISector Policy                 C                12/93                Replace IDEMA's monopoly on agricultural
Conditionality 3                                                   imports with transparent and automatic system
allowing private sector to import freely and
._______________ ,___,___ .__   replace quotas with tariffs



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual statement:
Statement number and title                       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
None
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                          Revised                           Actual
project cycle         Weeks            US$             Weeks            US$             Weeks            US$
Through appraisal  n/a                                                                           59.2
Appraisal through   n/a                                                                          26.3
Board approval
Board approval to   n/a
effectiveness                                                       _                                                  l
Supervision          n/a                                                                         47.2
|Completion            n/a                                                                         3.0
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized staff skills represented
Stage of project cycle              Number   Days in                                         Implementa-  Development
|_____________-_____  Monthl year  of persons   field                                         tion status    objectives
Through appraisal    1/90           7          14        Financial Analyst,Engineer,Trade Policy,
3/90          10         16        Privatization, Energy, Ports,Shipping,
I_______________________            ____________ ___________ Telecom, Banking, TA Specialist
Appraisal through    6/90          6           11        -Finance, Engineer, Energy, TA
Board approval       9/90          3           5         -Finance, Ports/Shipping
l _______________     11/90         1           5         -Ports
Board approval
to effectiveness
Supervision          3/91          2           6         -Finance, TA Specialist             1
7/91          4          5         -Finance, Ports, Banking, Shipping   1            1
12/91         1          6         -Finance                            1
11/92        2           5         -Finance, Ag Specialist             1
5/93          1          4         -Finance                             1
l___________________  9/94          2          5          -Finance, Privatization             1            1
Completion           4/95           1          10        -Finance
r~ -



ANNEX  1         22
Annex 1: Economic Modemization Program (EMP)
Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework Targets (at end 1989)
1990 Torget               1991 Taget                1992 Target.
Fiscal Deficet (b  % of GDP)                2.3              2 or less                 less than 1
Extemal ceurnt Account
deficit                                  2%                        1%               lass than 1%
Intemational Reserves
(a months of Imports of
goods and servioeel                           5                         5                          5
Expansion of Financial Credit
- to the Public Sector
(as % of GDPI                                 1                         0                          0
- to the Private sector         slightly                  same as nominal           same as nominal
above                     GDP                       GDP
nominal GDP
Expanslon of Net Domestio          15% of the
Assets of Banco de Is           ourrency issue
Republica                       at the beoinning
of 1990
Extemal Debt (as % of GDP)                 40%                                          35% (1994)
Debt Service Ratio                 more than 45%                                        33% (1994)
Source President' Report. Novembe 26. 1990 (Report P-431 5-CO



ANNEX 2          23
Annex 2: Govemment Revenues from Privatizations and Concessions 1994 - 1998
US $ Millions                                         1994*         1995        1996         1997         1998
Central Government                                   1709.4        444.9         561          797          677
Financial Sector                                    482.2          300
Banco de Colombia                                  325.9
BGH                                                156.2
Banco Popular                                                     300
Mining & Eecticity Sector                            50.2         32.9          300          380         610
EPSA
Barrancas IV, V                                      4.2          7.9
Termocartagena                                                                  90
Prado                                                              20
Betania                                                                                    100          200
ISA                                                   46                                   200          400
Termotasajero                                                                                70
Particip. Electrificadoras                                          5           10           10          10
(Quindio, Tolima, Santander y otras)
Carbocol                                                                       200
Telecommunications                                                              249          405           55
Domestic Long Distance                                                        249            23          23
Concession                                                                   226
Gross Revenue (5%)                                                             23          23           23
International Long Distance                                                                382           32
Concession                                                                                350
Gross Revenue (5%)                                                                                      64
Cellular Telephone Concesslon                        1177
Telhvsllon Concession                                              100
Airport Concession                                                  12           12           12           12
Others                                                 89.8          517           33          134          50
Instituto de Fomento Industrial-IFI                  0.7        167.7
Alcalls-Betania                                                 18.8
Mon omeros C.V.                                                 36.4
C.l. Frigopesca                                                    3
Quibi                                               0.7
CATSA                                                            0.4
Corromatoso                                                     89.4
Propal                                                          37.5
Federaltex                                                         2
Intelsa                                                          0.2
Pestol u
Corporacl on Naclonal de Turismo-CNT                16.1         11.3
Hilton                                               16
Santamar                                                        11.3
Ruiz                                                0.1
Ecopetrol                                             64          290                       134          50
Torpeles Contro y Sur                                                                        2
Promigas                                              4                                    55
Sociodad Transports do Cusiana                       60          230
Sociedad Ecogas                                                   60                       52           28
Termicas (Gualanday, Occ.)
Gas Natural                                                                                25
Other Activities                                                                                        22
Fondo Naclonal del Cafe                                9           48           33
Banco Catetero                                        9           48          33
Other Activities
1 7994 figures are actual. Rgures for 1995-1998 are projected. Source: Government of Colo;bio, 1995.



24
ANNEX 3
Annex 3: Macroeconomic Results, 1990 - 1994
Macroeconomic Figures                         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994
Inflation (%)                                32.37        26.82        25.14        22.61       22.59
Growth t%)                                    4.31         2.15         3.45         5.23         5.69
Reserves (months of imports)                   5.9          8.9          8.8          6.9         5.91
Non-Financial Public Sector as % of GDP      -0.57         0.04        -0.22         0.13         2.61
External Debt as % of GDP                       30           32          28           25           22
Debt Service as % of Exports                 46.84        43.43         47.8         42.6       37.85
Current Account Deficit as % of GDP           1.35         5.52         1.86        -3.87         -4.4
*Source: Government of Colombia



25
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Performance Plans
(i) INURBE
The performance plan for INURBE was aimed at the resolution of the
administrative and financial problems inherited from ICT, the former public housing
agency, and the restructuring of its operations in line with the new sector strategy.
INURBE met, and in many cases, exceeded the operational and financial targets set in the
performance plan, i.e. normalization of its housing inventory and credit portfolio, target
for portfolio recovery and portfolio arrears, reduction of its personnel to about 20% of its
original staff (from 2910 to 575). A substantial institutional and administrative
restructuring was carried out for the implementation of INURBE's new role as
administrator of direct public subsidies and provider of technical assistance.
(ii) ECOPETROL
Ecopetrol met all targets under the performance plan, i.e. ceiling on current and
capital expenditures, maximum indebtedness and level of transfers to the Central
Government, development and initial implementation of a cost accounting system, and a
study to rationalize its personnel. Drastic changes in market and sector conditions have led
the Government to renegotiate the original plan. The commercial site discovery in Cusiana
generated a substantial increase in the originally approved investment levels. A second
round performance plan for Ecopetrol, focused on resetting financial targets consistent
with 1992 macroeconomic program. (Ecopetrol committed itself to divest assets in an
amount of not less than US$80 million during 1993, and of not less of US$177 million
during 1994; to limit its direct investments during 1993-94 to the investment quotas
defined by the government in its macroeconomic program.)
(iii) TELECOM
During the year 1991 Telecom fully met its targets on operational surplus,
reduction of labor redundancies and rationalization of current expenditures, set out in the
original performance plan. In addition, the company implemented a cost accounting
system and fully met the agreed investment targets. During 1992, the Government
formulated a comprehensive restructuring plan for the telecommunications sector with the
objective of improving competition and allowing private sector to play a more active role
in future sector growth and investment. The plan provided for Telecom's privatization.
Unfortunately, as a result of labor strikes the plan was ultimately withdrawn by the
Government. Instead a more limited opening to private sector participation was put in
place providing for some marginal competition to Telecom's monopoly in long distance
communications via the deregulation of value added services. Despite the partial opening,
Telecom has faced increased competitive pressures from private sector companies which
have generated the need for substantive restructuring by the company. The PSRL



26
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
financed technical assistance aimed at defining a restructuring strategy for Telecom within
the new sector environment. This was the main subject of the second round performance
plan (i.e. corporate policy and restructuring, pricing policy for remaining services, strategy
for dealing with pension liabilities.) There was no evaluation conducted of Telecom's
performance under the second round performance plan as part of the PSRL conditionality.
(iv) HIMAT
Himat's performance plan established targets on cost recovery, implementation of
the investment program and delegation of water districts administration to beneficiaries.
Himat did not fully comply with the agreed targets, i.e. it only reached 71% of the total
operation and maintenance cost recovery expected for 1991; it only met 33% of the target
for delegating district administration to beneficiaries. In addition, substantial delays were
incurred in the implementation of its small scale-irrigation program and in the provision of
technical assistance and technology transfer to beneficiaries. Remedial actions were taken,
i.e. Himat's top management were replaced and Himat's investments were radically
reduced in those irrigation districts that were delinquent in their cost recovery
contributions.
(v) ISA, ICEL, CORELCA and CVC
Performance plans in the power sector were used by the Government as a
temporary instrument -in absence of an adequate competitive and regulatory framework-
to direct its power companies to undertake the necessary adjustment actions pursuant to
the reform strategy that provided for a transparent segregation of power generation,
transmission and distribution activities; the opening up of the sector to private sector
participation; the establishment of economic pricing for power and alternative energy
resources, and the facing out of the Government's role as operator an the strengthening of
its role as regulator. The performance plans agreed with ISA, CVC, Corelca and ICEL,
established financial and operational targets for improving their efficiency and
performance. They also include actions to be undertaken by each company derived fronjm
the sector reform strategy in implementation, i.e. segregation of ISA's generation and
transmission operations, the divestment of ICEL and Corelca's commercialization
functions and the transfer of the latter's generation assets and shares in ISA to the
Government. Specific targets and actions agreed were satisfactory achieved and consistent
with the overall sector strategy.
(vi) IDEMA
Based on Law 7/199 1, IDEMA rapidly shifted from a holding an import monopoly
and dominant purchasing position for key agricultural products, to permit the private
sector to become the driving force in commercial agricultural marketing. Decree 2136/92
defined IDEMA's new corporate role as last resort purchaser and supplier of basic
products in marginal areas. IDEMA's performance plan sought to enable the Institute to



27
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
cope with its new role, through the definition of an administrative restructuring process,
and a personnel reduction (i.e. from 2800 employees in November 1991 to 1400 by march
1993) and divestment strategy. Through the T.A. component, IDEMA's restructuring
process was supported. Its financial structure and organization was reviewed and
recommendations regarding the need to sharply reduce personnel and undertake a
divestiture program of its facilities and equipment located in commercial agriculture and
port areas, were suggested. Unfortunately IDEMA's corporate strategy was relatively
undermined due to the change of managers -not sufficiently committed to the new
strategy- and to the difficulties faced by the agricultural sector as a result of a combination
of factors (including climatic and monetary and exchange policies).
(vi) FERROVIAS
The Government undertook a comprehensive restructuring of its railways sector
since mid/1989. Ferrovias, the public sector company retained responsibility for the
operation, rehabilitation and maintenance of track infrastructure, while the private sector
was allowed to use the track and provide transport services. Two private companies have
been established for that purpose. Ferrovias performance plan set forth the investment,
financial and operational targets for the company during the period 1993-96 that will
ensure the completion of the rehabilitation program and its commercial sustainability.
(vii) FVN
FNV performance plan aimed at strengthening its planning and managerial capacity
and its coordination with the budgetary authorities. In fact, over the years FVN shown a
marked trend towards contracting roads beyond its financial and operational capacity.
FVN performance plan was also part of an ambitious sector restructuring strategy towards
the transformation of FVN into the Instituto Nacional de Vias (INV), an entity with full
operation autonomy. The plan provided for a four year investment and maintenance
program and specific commitment ratios to ensure that contracting was consistent with
budget provisions. By Decree 2171 of December 1992, FVN was restructured
into the INV.






SZDIGN'IJV,






APPENDIX A
FROM:  The President                                                  May 18, 1992
COLOMBIA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE
I. BACKGROUND
1.        A Bank loan to support a Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) (Loan No.
3278-CO) of US$304 million equivalent was approved on December 11, 1990. The PSRP is
part of the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) adopted by the Government aimed at
raising productivity and long term output growth of the Colombian Economy. The Loan
Agreement was signed on December 28, 1990 and became effective on February 19, 1991.
The policy-based component of the operation was to be disbursed in three tranches of
US$100 million equivalent each. The first tranche was disbursed on March 4, 1991. The
balance of the Loan (US$4 million equivalent) finances a technical assistance component.
2.        The PSRP is also supported by a parallel loan from the Inter-American
Development Bank in an amount of US$300 million. The first tranche of the IDB loan in an
amount of US$100 million has also been disbursed. The technical assistance component of
the Bank Loan is cofinanced by a US$5 million IDB Technical Assistance Cooperation and a
US$1 million equivalent Japanese Grant Facility.
3.        The following sections of this memorandum summarize the progress in
implementing the program and reports on the actions taken by the Government to meet
specific conditions for the release of the second tranche.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and alternates                         Questions on this
Office of the President                                    document may be
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC, and MIGA                   referred to:
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC, and MIGA                       Mr. Felipe Saez
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA        Ext. 31982



APPENDIX A
-2 -
II. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE CRITERIA
Macroeconomic Performance
Loan Condition      Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
This condition has been met.
4.        The macroeconomic framework embedded in the EMP envisaged a gradual
reduction of .he nonfinancial public sector deficit to 2% of GDP or lower in 1991 and a
further decline to less than 1 % of GDP in 1992. The reduction in the fiscal deficit would
enable the nonfinancial public sector to eliminate its need for borrowing from the domestic
financial system, so that credit expansion to the private sector during this period would be in
line with the growth of nominal GDP. Fiscal restraint would in turn be accompanied by an
active exchange rate policy aimed at ensuring an adequate level of external competitiveness,
and a prudent monetary policy geared to slow down inflation. As a result of this set of
policies, the external current account deficit was expected to decline to 1 % of GDP in 1991
and to less than 1 % by 1992, while international reserves would be maintained at the
equivalent of five months of imports. External debt was expected to start declining from
40% of GDP in 1990 to 35% in 1994, while the debt service ratio dropped from more than
45% to 33%.
5.        Developments in the external sector were substantially more favorable than
projected in the 1990-92 macro economic program. A current account surplus of 1.5% of
GDP was generated in 1990 as a result of an aggressive exchange rate policy initiated in
February 1990 that depreciated the real exchange rate by 20% during 1989-90 -- leading to a
growth of non-traditional exports of 24% -- and an increase in oil prices and volume of
petroleum exports caused by the Persian Gulf crisis. The positive developments in the
external sector, however, were accompanied by an acceleration of inflation, which reached a
10-year peak of 32% by end-1990.
6.        In early 1991 the authorities framed a program aimed at reducing the annual
inflation rate to 22% by year-end. Credit was tightened substantially and as a result interest
rates rose sharply through September 1991. The interest rate differential between dollar and
peso assets peaked in July at about 15 percentage points. The rise in domestic interest rates,
combined with a slower depreciation of the peso (resulting in an appreciation of the peso of
8% in real terms during 1991) and a tax amnesty for capital repatriation encouraged strong
capital inflows during most of the year. These flows were also encouraged -- as in other
Latin American countries -- by an improvement in the overall policy regime. These flows
changed the nature of the required macroeconomic adjustment from that originally envisaged
in the program and presented the authorities with a new set of challenges.



APPENDIX A
-3-
7.        Facing the unexpected strength in the balance of payments during 1990-91,
recognizing that tight monetary policy was becoming less effective and more costly as an
anti-inflation instrument, and hoping to lessen pressure for drastic fiscal adjustment and/or
continued real exchange rate appreciation, the Government opted for a significant
acceleration in trade liberalization to achieve its macroeconomic objectives. The 1992 tariff
targets were adopted six months in advance, in July 1991. Then, in August 1991, the
Government decided to immediately adopt the tariff targets previously scheduled for 1994.
In all, the reforms lowered average nominal protection (excluding agricultural products
covered under the price band system, and automobiles) from 28% to 15% and average
effective protection from 44% to 25%. The adoption of the final tariff targets in August
1991 meant that the entire program of trade liberalization begun in early 1990 --including the
removal of QRs as well as a significant reduction in tariffs and in the level and dispersion of
effective protection-- was achieved in 18 months, rather than the five years originally
envisaged.
8.        Still, the overall balance of payments surplus exceeded US$ 2 billion in 1991,
with gross international reserves increasing to 9.1 months of imports of goods and services,
and the current account surplus reaching 5.6% of GDP. While non-traditional exports
seemed to have responded properly to the trade measures, by growing 34% during the year,
non-petroleum imports did not react and even dropped, 7%. The lack of import response has
been partly attributed to the frequent changes in the tariff schedules, which encouraged
importers to postpone their purchases. In addition, given the more open trade regime, there
was a reduction in the required inventories of imported products. Demand for such products
was satisfied through existing stocks with no need for new purchases. In any event, the
authorities believe that some of the improvement in the current account conceals a certain
amount of capital inflows through both under-invoicing of imports and over-invoicing of
exports.
9.        Deficit of the nonfinancial public sector is estimated to be about 0. 1 % of GDP in
1991, well within the target. The Government took important corrective measures during the
year to ensure this outcome. To offset declining trade revenues, the value-added tax (IVA)
was raised from 10% to 12%, and its base was broadened. A "war tax" was imposed in the
form of a 5% surcharge on international calls and personal income of individuals, private
petroleum and coal companies and Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos (ECOPETROL).
Electric tariffs were raised by 9.7% in real terms. In addition, the Government benefitted
from higher income taxes due to the oil windfall of 1990. On the expenditure side, the
domestic purchase price of coffee was reduced in real terms and somre investment outlays,
such as the Metro de Medellin, were postponed. These positive developments were partly
offset by an increase in the quasi-fiscal deficit of the Central Bank due to the cost of its open
market operations.
10.       To partially neutralize the effects of the stronger than anticipated capital inflows,
the public sector sharply reduced its external financing during 1991. Some of this financing,
however, was simply replaced with an unanticipated increase in the level of domestic



APPENDIX A
-4-
financing. Net credit to the public sector increased by nearly 5% of money and quasi-money
stock as of December 1990, or the equivalent of about 1 % of GDP. This outcome led to a
slower than programmed expansion of bank credit to the private sector of about 17%. While
this outcome is inconsistent with the original program, it is unlikely to have been a binding
constraint for private investment given the magnitude of capital inflows.
11.       Real GDP rose by an estimated 2.2% in 1991. Inflation was slowed from 32%
in 1990 to 27% in 1991. This fell short of the original target mainly due to the difficulties
in managing the large capital inflows experienced during the year.
12.       The Government's macroeconomic program for 1992 aims at reducing inflation
to 22% by end-1992 and envisages a rate of growth of real GDP of 3%. The program calls
for prudent monetary expansion with a 26-30% rate of growth for Ml, a 0.3% of GDP
surplus of the nonfinancial public sector, a 27% rate of growth of credit to the private sector,
and a 7% real appreciation of the exchange rate. The balance of payments is anticipated to
continue to be strong, with a surplus in the current account of 1.1 % of GDP and gross
international reserves remaining at 9.1 months of imports of goods and services. External
debt is still expected to decline to 33 % of GDP by 1994 and the debt service with respect to
exports of goods and non-factor services to drop below 30%.
13.       In all, the program very much incorporates some of last year's lessons in
macroeconomic management. In particular, it is clear that during the last two years
monetary policy carried too large a burden in the anti-inflationary effort. The restraint of
domestic credit was to some extent self-defeating, as it led to a rise in domestic interest rates
and a corresponding increase in capital inflows. For 1992, a more equitable distribution of
the adjustment burden is envisaged among monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies in
order to enable an adequate pace of expansion for credit to the private sector.
Performance under the Public Sector Reform Program
14.       In addition to a consistent macroeconomic performance, release of the second
tranche was made contingent upon satisfactory progress in the carrying out of the PSRP and
in complying with specific conditions related to three main components: (i) a performance
planning and evaluation system to modernize the management of its decentralized entities; (ii)
a privatization program to reduce direct public sector participation in the financial sector; and
(iii) structural reforms to promote private sector development in the ports, shipping and low-
income housing sectors.
15.       The Government has made satisfactory progress in the carrying out of the PSRP
as defined in the Policy Letter. It has made public sector reform a priority item in its agenda
and carried out in a consistent manner the actions included in the PSRP. In fact, in many
areas, the Government has deepened the scope and depth of the reforms which were
originally envisaged under the PSRP.



APPENDIX A
5-
Performance Plan Component
Loan Condition   Performance plans have been implemented with INURBE,
ECOPETROL, TELECOM and HIMAT in accordance with their
objectives, terms and timetables or, in the absence of compliance,
remedial action has been adopted.
This condition has been met.
16.       Instituto National de Vivienda de Interes Social y Reforma Urbana
(INURBE). The performance plan for INURBE was aimed at the resolution of the
administrative and financial problems inherited from ICT (the former public housing agency),
and the restructuring of its operations in line with the new sector strategy.
17.      INURBE substantially met and, in many cases, exceeded the operational and
financial targets that had been set in the performance plan to wind-up the former ICT's
opemtions. This includes the normalization of its housing inventory and credit portfolio, the
target for portfolio recovery and the portfolio arrears and foreclosure indices on delinquent
loans. At the same time, INURBE carried out a substantial institutional and administrative
restructuring by relinquishing its role as builder and financier, and implementing its new role
as administrator of direct public subsidies and provider of technical assistance. On the
personnel side, this restructuring has led to a reduction of its personnel to about 20% of its
original staff (from 2,910 to 575). This drastic staff reduction was achieved through a
negotiated settlement with its labor unions. INURBE's performance in implementing reforms
in the low-income housing sector is described in paragraphs .
18.       The second round performance plan will focus on targets aimed at attaining
efficiency improvements in the granting and administration of housing subsidies and in the
provision of technical assistance to municipalities and low-income housing associations.
19.       Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos (ECOPETROL). ECOPETROL met all the
agreed targets under the performance plan, including: (a) the ceilings on current and capital
expenditures, maximum indebtedness and the level of transfers tx the Central Government;
(b) the development and initial implementation of a cost accounting system; and (c) despite
some initial delays, the undertaking of a study to rationalize its personnel. The second round
performance plan for ECOPETROL will focus on adherence by the company to a set of
financial targets consistent with the 1992 macroeconomic program. In addition, it will
complete the implementation of the cost accounting system and initiate the labor
rationalization program based on the recommendations of the ongoing study.
20.       Empresa Colombiana de Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM). TELECOM  has
fully met, and in many areas exceeded, its targets on operational surplus, reduction of labor



APPENDIX A
-6 -
redundancies and rationalization of current expenditures. In addition, the company initiated
implementation of a cost accounting system and fully met the agreed investment targets.
21.        The Government is in the process of formulating a comprehensive restructuring
plan for the telecommunications sector with the objective of improving competition and
providing the private sector a more active role in future sector growth and investment. The
technical assistance needs for formulating and implementing the restructuring strategy are
being financed under the Loan and the associated Japanese Grant Facility. The second-round
performance plan for TELECOM will establish --in addition to financial and operational
targets -- specific targets derived from the Government's restructuring strategy.
22.        Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Metereologia, y Adecuacion de Tierras
(HIMAT). This performance plan established targets on cost recovery, implementation of
the investment program and delegation of district administration to beneficiaries. HIMAT
did not fully comply with the targets agreed in the performance plan. It only reached 71 %
of the total O&M cost recovery targeted for 1991. It substantially met the physical targets in
the rehabilitation and expansion of existing districts; however, it incurred in substantial
delays in the implementation of its small scale-irrigation program and in the provision of the
technical assistance and technology transfer to program beneficiaries. Finally, it met only
33% of the target for delegating district administration to beneficiaries.
23.        The Government is currently implementing necessary remedial actions, as
provided for in the Loan Agreement, to ensure this entity achieves the efficiency
improvements pursued under the plan: (a) HIMAT's top management has been recently
replaced. The new management seems experienced and qualified and shows a high level of
commitment with the efficiency improvements being sought for HIMAT; (b) HIMAT has
drastically reduced investments in those irrigation districts that are-delinquent in their cost
recovery contributions. Further investments in those districts will be subject to a clear
understanding with the respective communities regarding their investment needs and
contribution to the administration and financing of future investments; and (c) the new
management will follow a pro-active policy of disengaging HIMAT from the administration
of existing districts through delegation to, or co-administration with, beneficiaries.
Loan Condition    Performance plans have been signed and has become effective with
ISA, ICEL, CORELCA and CVCI' consistent with the objectives of
the Program.
I/   Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Govermment requested a substitution of two of the entities that were
expected to be included in the second round of performance plans (Puertos de Colombia
(COLPUERTOS) and IDEMA) by two entities which had been included in the third round of
performance plans (ISA and CVC). The Bank agreed to this since it enables the Government to deal at
once with all the enterprises it owns in the power sector in the context of a clearly defined sector reform
strategy.



APPENDIX A
-7-
This condition has been met.
24.       The Government has recently defined a comprehensive reform strategy for the
power sector, embodied in a legislative initiative currently before Congress, which would
bring about a major restructuring of the present regulatory and institutional framework. The
strategy provides for: (i) a transparent segregation of power generation, transmission and
distribution activities even in the case of vertically integrated companies, each of which will
be subject to different rules and regulations; (ii) the opening up of the sector to private sector
participation; (iii) establishing economic pricing for power and alternative energy resources;
and (iii) the phasing-out of the Government's role as operator and the strengthening of its
role as regulator.
25.       The Government has decided to use performance plans as a temporary instrument
(in the absence of an adequate competitive and regulatory framework) to direct its power
companies (Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA), Instituto Colombiano de Electrificacion
(ICEL), Corporacion Electrica del Atlantico (CORELCA) and Corporacion Regional del
Valle del Cauca (CVC)) to undertake the necessary adjustment actions pursuant to the reform
strategy.
26.       The performance plans agreed between the Government and each of the
companies establish financial and operational targets for improving their efficiency and
performance. In addition, they include structural reforms to be undertaken by each company
in the context of the new reform strategy for the sector, i.e., the segregation of ISA's
generation and transmission operations, the divestment of ICEL and CORELCA's
commercialization functions and the transfer of the latters' generation assets and shlares in
ISA to the Government. The Bank has reviewed and found the specific targets and actions
agreed with each of the power companies satisfactory and consistent with the overall sector
strategy.
Privatization Component
Loan Condition   The Banco de los Trabajadores, Banco del Comercio and Banco
Tequendama have been brought to the point of sale.
This condition has been met.
27.       The three banks were brought to the point of sale and their divestment completed
during the period June 13 to December 18, 1991. Banco de los Trabajadores and Banco
Tequendama were sold to foreign investors following a competitive bidding process at a price
50% above their estimated commercial value and 1.6 and 3 times their book value,
respectively. In the case of Banco de Comercio, the controlling package (71%) was sold to a
domestic investor following a competitive bidding process and the remaining shares sold



APPENDIX A
-8-
through private offerings and the stockmarket. This bank was sold at 161 % its estimated
commercial value and 2.9 times its book value.
28.       Despite the relatively small size of these privatized banks in relation to the total
system (5.23% of total commercial bank assets), the divestiture program has had a significant
irnpact by providing a channel for increased private investment in the sector.
Private Sector Development Component
Puertos de Colombia (COLPUERTOS) Restructuring
Loan Condition   A program for the restructuring of COLPUERTOS aimed at
adjusting its operation in a manner consistent with the elements of
the reform strategy for the port sector as defined in the PSRP.
This condition has been met.
29.       Government actions have exceeded the original expectation. The Government
decided to fully remove the public sector from the business of port operation and liquidate
COLPUERTOS. Law 1 of 1991 has established a new regulatory framework for the ports
sector, providing full access for the private sector to the operation of existing public
terminals and to investment in existing and new port developments. It also provides for free
pricing in the provision of port services by the private sector and tariffs reflecting economic
costs for the use of public port infrastructure. The new sector framework is fully consistent
with the objectives of the EMP.
30.       The process of establishing the new sector framework is well underway. The
Government has already established the new regulatory authority for port operations
(Superintendency of Ports), and defined the policies on tariffs, concessions and compensation
for the use of ports' infrastructure. The next critical step to be undertaken by the
Government is to initiate the discharge of COLPUERTOS' personnel in the main terminals to
enable the entry of private operators. This process has been kept in abeyance while
discussions are ongoing with the labor unions to obtain their concurrence to the proposed
severance terms in order to minimize disruptions. Satisfactory implementation of the ports
sector reform constitutes a condition for the release of the third tranche.
Shipping Reform
Loan Condition   The following actions aimed at improving competition of the shipping
sector shall have been taken: (i) eliminated the remittance ceiling for
freight revenues of foreign liners; (ii) streamlined the mechanisms to
control compliance with cargo reserve quotas; and (iii) reduced
reserve quotas for bulk imports to a level of not more than 5% of
total bulk imports.



APPENDIX A
9-
This condition has been met.
31.       The Government has taken decisive and far reaching action in the area of cargo
reserve requirements, going beyond the agreed conditionality for the release of the second
and third tranches. By virtue of Decree 2327 of October 1991, the reserve quota system has
been fully eliminated and replaced by a regime of free entry for all shipping companies,
subject only to a reciprocal treatment to Colombian carriers by the country of origin of
foreign carriers operating in Colombia.
32.         The Government has eliminated all freight remittance ceilings for foreign
shipping companies through Law 49 of 1990. A simplified tax withholding rate of 12% of
freight receipts has been established as the sole tax liability for these companies.
Low-income Housing
Loan Condition   Conditionality for the low-income sector focused on four main areas:
(i) the termination of the state's virtual monopoly through INURBE
in the construction and financing of low-income housing; (ii) the
establishment of an incentive structure for the sector that would
make attractive private sector participation in the construction and
financing of low-income housing; (iii) the elimination of forced
investments by the financial sector as a net financing source for
ENURBE and the establishment of a schedule for repayment of ICT's
accrued liabilities to the financial sector; and (iv) the establishment
of a system of direct and targeted housing subsidies.
This condition has been met.
33.       The Government obtained in early 1991 legislative approval (Law 3) for the
liquidation of ICT as the public monopoly for the provision and financing of low-income
housing. INURBE -- the legal successor to ICT -- is now devoid of direct building and
financing functions (other than those derived from the winding-up of ICT's operations) and
has sole responsibility for the administration of the housing subsidy and the provision of
technical assistance to municipal and housing associations for the development of housing
projects and the implementation of urban programs.
34.       Under the new sector framework, the Government promotes and subsidizes low-
income housing through the provision of up-front cash grants to eligible beneficiaries.
Demand by potential beneficiaries has been significant (31,271 subsidies were awarded
during calendar year 1991) and has further grown by 44% during the first two months of
1992. The housing subsidy is adequately targeted: 66% of subsidies have been awarded to
family groups with an aggregate monthly income of less than US$200 to finance housing
units costing not more than US$2,000. The balance has been awarded to families with a



APPENDIX A
- 10 -
monthly income below US$400. The average cost of housing units financed under the
program is about US$5,000.
35.       The initial supply response by the housing industry and the financial sector has
been very favorable. During the initial eight months of implementation of this policy, a total
of 398 housing projects for an aggregate of 40,000 units have been registered at INURBE.
This implies a 60% increase in construction as compared with the average low-income
construction permits under the previous scheme. The response by the financial sector in
providing the required financing has also been positive.
36.       The previous financing scheme for low-income housing based on forced
investments by the private sector has been completely dismantled. The housing subsidy is
financed from fiscal revenues (70% of estimated housing subsidies for 1991) and the balance
from a partial reallocation of the existing employers' contribution to family allowances (25%
of the 4% payroll tax paid by employers). Past liabilities from ICT to the financial sector
(estimated at about US$180 million) have been rescheduled through the issuance of ten-year
negotiable bonds yielding 21 % per annum. INURBE is seeking to prepay the bonds by
allowing their use in the purchase of assets (mainly land) which were part of ICT's
investment portfolio.
MI. CONCLUSION
37.       All conditions for the release of the second tranche specified in the Loan
Agreement have been fully met. Based on the satisfactory achievement of the objectives of
the program and the compliance with the specific second tranche conditions, the Government
of Colombia has been advised of the availability of the second tranche of the Loan in an
amount of US$100 million equivalent.
Lewis T. Preston



APPENDIX B
FROM: The President
COLOMBIA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
RELEASE OF THE THIRD TRANCHE
I. BACKGROUND
1.         A Bank loan to support a Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) (Loan No. 3278-CO)
of US$304 million equivalent was approved on December 11, 1990. The PSRP is part of the
Government's Economic Modernization Program (EMP) aimed at raising productivity and long-term
growth of the Colombian Economy. The Loan Agreement was signed on December 28, 1990, and
became effective on February 19, 1991. The policy-based component of the operation was to be
disbursed in three tranches of $100 million each. The balance of the Loan ($4 million) was to finance
technical assistance related to the implementation of the PSRP.
2.         The first tranche of the loan was disbursed on March 4, 1991. Disbursement of the
second tranche was approved on May 27, 1992 and disbursed shortly thereafter. On September 14,
1993, the Bank agreed to reallocate $3 million of the third tranche proceeds to finance additional
technical assistance requirements. Thus, the present third tranche allocation is $97 million. Loan
proceeds assigned for the financing of technical assistance are expected to be fully committed by
December 31, 1993.
3.         The PSRP is also supported by a parallel loan from the Inter-American Development
Bank in an amount of US$300 million. The two first tranches of the IDB loan for .aQtal =ount.ot
US$200 million have also been disbursed. The technical assistance component of the Bank Loan is
co-financed by a US$5 million IDB Technical Assistance Cooperation and a US$1 million equivalent
Japanese Grant Facility.
4.         The following sections of this memorandum summarize the progress in implementing the
PSRP and reports on the actions taken by the Government to meet specific conditions for the release
of the third tranche. Based on this assessment, which confirms the satisfactory achievement of the
objectives of the PSRP and compliance with third tranche conditions, the Bank has advised the
Government of Colombia of the availability of the third tranche of the Loan.
*Questions on this document may be referred to Mr. Felipe Saez (ext. 31982).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and alternates
Office of the President
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC, and MIGA
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
Directors and Departmnent Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA



APPENDIX B
11. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE CRITERIA
Macroeconomic Performance
Loan Condition        Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
This condition has been met.
5.         Macroeconomic policies followed by the Government during the period under review
(June 1992-October 1993) continue to be consistent with the objectives set under the Economic
Modernization Program (EMP). These policies enabled the country to sustain economic growth while
reducing inflation and improving its balance of payments position.
6.         The medium-term macroeconomic framework contemplated at the appraisal of the PSRL
envisaged a declining fiscal deficit, a strengthening of the balance of payments, maintenance of a high
level of international reserves, and an improvement in external indebtedness indicators. Program
performance has been monitored through semi-annual joint IMF-Bank review missions. The fiscal
deficit has declined somewhat more rapidly than projected. Developments in the external sector have
been substantially more favorable than envisaged, with international reserves target well exceeded,
and external indebtedness ratios falling more rapidly than projected.
7.         The Governrment's macroeconomic program for 1992 aimed at a rate of growth of GDP
of 3% while reducing inflation to 22%. The balance of payments was anticipated to remain strong,
with a surplus in the current account of 1. 1% of GDP and gross international reserves increasing to
the equivalent of 9 months of imports. The program called for prudent monetary expansion with a
26-30% rate of growth for MI, a 0.3% surplus of the nonfinancial public sector, a 27% rate of
growth of credit to the private sector, and a 7% real appreciation of the exchange rate. Economic
performance in 1992 is compared with the Government's program in the following table.
'92 Program    '92 Results    '93 Program
Fiscal balance (% GDP)        0.3%            -0.4%          -1.25%
External Current Account      1.1%            1.6%           -2.4%
Balance (% GDP)
International Reserves      9.1 months     11.3 months    10.0 months
(impoxt goods and servim)
Ml Expansion                 26-30%           39%           24-30%
Credit to private sector      27%             35%             33%
GDP Growth                     3%             3.5%           4.5%
Inflation                     22%             25%             22%



APPENDIX B
-3 -
8.         Real GDP growth (3.5%) exceeded expectations in spite of the electricity rationing
during February 1992 through early 1993 and the adverse effects on farm output of a severe drought.
A decline in domestic interest rates contributed to the expansion of activity in construction and
manufacturing. Consumer price inflation declined slightly to around 25% from 26.8% in 1991. The
decline in wholesale inflation - from 23% to 18% - was more pronounced.
9.         As expected, the balance of payments remained strong. The current account experienced
a surplus of 1.6% of GDP in 1992 despite a 12% decline in terms of trade and a sharp increase in
imports resulting from trade liberalization. Gross international reserves increased to 11.3 months of
imports.
10.        The nonfinancial public sector had a deficit of 0.4% of GDP rather than the small
surplus which had been planned. The deterioration in the fiscal accounts was due to the losses of the
Coffee Fund owing to a 24% drop in world coffee prices, a shortfall in electricity revenue due to
rationing, and an increase in investment outlays for infrastructure projects. Nevertheless, the increase
in the fiscal deficit did not result in any significant crowding-out of the private sector (interest rates
experienced a reduction of 15 percentage points) nor in an acceleration of inflation.
11.        The Government's macroeconomic program for 1993 is geared to attain a growth rate of
4.5%, and to reduce inflation to 22%. Fiscal policy aims at a nonfinancial public sector deficit of
1.25%, with increases in public expenditures (including severance payments for the reduction of
32,000 public employees) and expanded investments in the Cusiana oil fields. The monetary program
limits the growth of Ml to 24-30%, with growth of credit to the private sector of 33% and a slight
appreciation of the exchange rate. The external current account is projected to move to a deficit of
2.4% of GDP, as the trade balance shifts to a deficit and private transfers return to their historical
level after a marked increase in the last two years. The capital account is expected to remain in
surplus, with direct foreign investment over US$700 million, and an increase in international reserves
of US$500 million.
12.        The GDP growth rate of 4.5% is most likely to be attained as agriculture output has
recovered modestly and growth in manufacturing and construction has remained strong. Consumer
price inflation is expected to finish the year within the Government's target and the outcome on the
fiscal deficit also seems to be close to its original objective. The results for the balance of payments,
however, may be somewhat different. The current account deficit is now projected to be higher than
3 % of GDP, due to a surge in imports related to strong economic growth and the full effect of trade
liberalization. Still, given the good performance of exports and a strong capital account, net
international reserves have already increased by US$460 million during the first nine months of 1993.
Performance under the Public Sector Reform Program
13.        In addition to a satisfa-tory macroeconomic performance, release of the third tranche
was made contingent upon satisfactory progress in the carrying out of the PSRP and in complying
with specific conditions related to three main components: (i) a performance planning and evaluation
system to modernize the management of its decentralized entities; (ii) a privatization program to
reduce direct public sector participation in the financial sector; and (iii) structural reforms to promote
private sector development in the ports, shipping and agricultural marketing sectors.



APPENDIX B
-4 -
14.        The Government has made satisfactory progress in the carrying out of the PSRP and has
fully met the conditions for release of the third tranche of the loan. In fact, in many areas the
Government has advanced further and rnore rapidly in the implementation of reforms than was
originally envisaged.
Performance Plan Component
Loan Condition         Performnance plans have been signed with IDEMA (the agricultural
marketing entity), COLPUERTOS (the port authority),
FERROVIAS (the railway infrastructure company) and FONDO
V1.AJ NACIONAl, (the highway construction authority).
This_Sondition has been met.
15.        Instituto de Mercadeo Agricola (IDEMA). The reforms put in place by the
Government in the agricultural niarketing s*ectcr have generated substantial changes in the role,
structure and operations of IDEMA (see paras. 42-44). Based on legislation approved in early 1991,
IDEMA rapidly shifted from holding an import monopoly and a dominant purchasing position for key
agricultural products to permit the private sector to become the driving force in commercial
agricultural marketing. Decree 2136 of December 1992, defined IDEMA's new corporate role as last
resort purchaser and supplier of basic agricultural products in marginal areas; as developer of
marketing infrastructure in marginal areas; and as a temporary regulator of domestic markets in
emergency circumstances.
16.        Substantial policy reforms and administrative reorganizations have been undertaken to
help IDEMA adjust to its new role. MoWst inmportantly, since early 1991 IDEMA has effectively
refrained from regular interventions in agricultiural trading. In the first quarter of 1993, IDEMA
imported only 4% of total agricultural imports. Its total marketing operations in real terms have been
reduced to one-third of the levels prevailing in FY1989. This change in the entity's policies has been
accompanied by adjustments in its administrative structure (focussing the organization to provide
marketing services to marginal areas), persoraiel reductions (from 2,800 in November 1991 to 1,400
by March 1993) and a program of divestment of the equipment and marketing infrastructure utilized
in its prior capacity as importer and prime marketing agent.
17.        The performance plan agreed by IDEMA for the period 1993-94 seeks to deepen the
processes of administrative restructuring, personnel reduction and divestment that have been put into
effect since 1991. The pian contemplates a new phase of administrative reorganization to further
reduce administrative layers and personnel, increase administrative decentralization and sub-
contracting of non-core services and streamline operational procedures to ensure a more effective
delivery of marketing services t" clients. ,n addition, the plan includes new divestment and service
delivery targets.
18.        Puertos de Colombia (COLPUERTOS).  The PSRP established as its original
objective adjusting COLPUERTOS to a sector environment open to private sector competition. In
early 1991, the Government obtained legislative approval for a more aggressive sector reform that
would eliminate the role of the statk as operator, i.e. the liquidation of COLPUERTOS, and promote
private sector participation in the -raagegment of port infrastructure and in the provision of port



APPENDIX B
5-
services. Progress in implementing the new regulatory frameworks has been satisfactory (see paras.
34-38).
19.        The process of liquidating COLPUERTOS, however, has been more costly and arduous
than anticipated. This has been due to difficulties in dealing with labor unions and lack of
coordination among the authorities involved in the process. To overcome this latter constraint,
COLPUERTOS' performance plan focuses on inter-governmental coordination to ensure the timely
liquidation of COLPUERTOS. The plan defines COLPUERTOS' management targets for the
liquidation of assets and personnel and sets forth the Budget Office's responsibility to make available
the financing required in a timely manner. COLPUERTOS' liquidation is expected to be completed
in early 1994.
20.        Fondo Vial Nacional (FVN). FVN has operated as a department within the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MOPT) responsible for the national road network. It has a personnel of
about 10,800 and an annual budget in the order of about US$500 million. In the last decade the
network has expanded significantly and its state has improved markedly. However, there have been
increasing concerns regarding FVN's planning and managerial capacity. Over the years FVN has
shown a marked trend towards contracting roads beyond its financial and operational capacity. This
has resulted in substantial construction delays, cost overruns and inordinate pressures on the fiscal
budget.
21.        FVN's performance plan is aimed at strengthening its planning capacity and ensuring
adequate coordination with the budgetary authorities. The plan provides for a detailed four-year
investment and maintenance program, specific commitment ratios to ensure that contracting is
consistent with budgetary authority and undertakings by FVN to implement a comprehensive
administrative restructuring. The plan is part of an ambitious sector restructuring due to take place
starting January 1, 1994, that will transform FVN into the Instituto Nacional de Vias (INV), an entity
with full operational autonomy. INV would be expected to phase out its direct maintenance
operations in a three-year period and further strengthen its planning and contract management
capacity.
22.        Empresa Colombiana de Vias Ferreas (Ferrovias). The Government has been
undertaking a comprehensive restructuring of its railways sector since mid-1989. Under the
restructuring, the public sector company, Ferrovias, retains responsibility for the operation,
rehabilitation and maintenance of track infrastructure. The private sector, on the other hand, is
allowed open access to the use of the track and to provide railways transport'services. Two private
companies have already been established for this purpose. The regulatory framework contemplates a
tariff scheme that would enable Ferrovias to recuperate its full operattonal, maintenance and
investment costs. Ferrovias' initial activities have focussed on track rehabilitation and development of
business opportunities with the private sector.
23.        The performance plan for Ferrovias sets forth the investment, financial and operational
targets expected from the company during the period 1993-96. During this period, Ferrovias will be
expected to complete the track rehabilitation program and improve its commercial sustainability by
increasing its internal cash generation from 21.7% of total expenditures in 1993 to 86.9% by 1996.



APPENDIX B
-6-
Loan Condition    The first- and second-round performance plans continue to be implesnented
in accordance with their terms or that remedial action has been adopted.
This condition has been met.
24.        Performance plans for most of the entities included in the first- and second-round
performance plans continue to be implemented in accordance with the terms agreed with the Bank. In
two cases, ECOPETROL and TELECOM, drastic changes in market and sector conditions have led
the Govermment to a renegotiation of the original plans in ways satisfactory to the Bank.
25.       In the case of ECOPETROL, the commercial site discovery in Cusiana has generated a
substantial increase in the originally approved investment levels. To ensure consistency between
ECOPETROL's investment plans and the Govermment's macroeconomic targets, the company has
undertaken: (i) to divest assets in an amount of not less than US$80 million during 1993, and of not
less than US$177 million during 1994; (ii) to limit its direct investments during the years 1993-94 to
the investment quotas defined by the Government in its macroeconomic program. The company has
been allowed, however, to carry out additional investment through leasing or other arrangements
involving private sector participation, e.g., BOOs, BOTs or BOMTs. Finally, the plan provides for
the continuation of efforts being undertaken by ECOPETROL and the Government to redefine the
role of ECOPETROL and its relationship with the Government in the period of prosperity that will
come about with Cusiana. This will receive some financial support from the technical assistance
portion of the Loan.
26.       In the case of TELECOM, the performance plan was discontinued after the privatization
initiative launched in mid-1992 was aborted. Since then, a full restructuring of the telecom regulatory
and institutional framework has taken place. An independent regulatory commission has been
established with authority to issue concessions and approve tariffs, stripping TELECOM of its
erstwhile regulatory functions. TELECOM is already facing competition in the market for data
transmission and international long distance (the latter from companies stationed abroad that sidestep
existing controls). Competitive pressures are expected to increase in the coming months as a result of
the expected award of the cellular communications concessions and the expected opening of other
restricted markets by the new regulatory commission.
27.        TELECOM's performance plan focusses on a strategic review of the company's
prospects under the new sector environment. The review would define: (i) the corporate strategy and
specific targets for each of the communication services currently provided by the company; (ii) a
corporate restructuring plan in line with the strategy proposed for the various corporate services; (iii)
a pricing policy for the remaining services that ensures its competitiveness, profitability and adequate
financing of its investrnent requirements; and (iv) a strategy to deal with the company's substantial
pension liabilities. The study's recommendations would be followed by a restructuring plan proposal
by TELECOM not later than March 1994. The performance plan also includes specific operational
and financial targets for the 1993 fiscal year.
Loan Condition        The Government Is operating the performance planning and
evaluation system (PPES) in accordance with objectives set forth in
the Policy Letter.
This condition has been met.



APPENDIX B
-7 -
28.        The Government has fully adhered to the PPES as an instrument to rationalize relations
between the Central Government and its decentralized entities. As anticipated, the content of all
performance plans have been geared to: (i) pricing of public sector goods and services based on
economic efficiency criteria and cost effectiveness in the operations of public entities (i.e., power
companies, ECOPETROL and TELECOM); (ii) limit the role of the public sector to cases in which
there are strong policy, considerations or market failures (i.e. INURBE, HIMAT and FERROVIAS);
and (iii) in those sectors where the Government is to maintain a presence, allow free entry by the
private sector and a competitive environment (i.e. telecommunications, petroleum, railways and ports)
in which the state-owned enterprise enjoys no special privilege or incentive. Performance plans are
currently utilized throughout the public sector to ensure adherence of public entities to these
objectives. In addition they constitute an effective and transparent instrument to evaluate public sector
managers performance"l.
29.         About 36 public entities are currently subject to performance plans. This is three times
the quantitative target set forth under the loan. The Government's decision to expand the use of
performance plans throughout the public sector has required some institutional adjustrnents. The task
of preparing, negotiating and monitoring performance plans had come to absorb most of CONFIS'
staff and resources, undermining its fiscal policy formulation role. In addition, CONFIS' lead role in
the formulation of performance plans could result in the dilution of the sector ministry's
responsibility. In this light, CONFIS decided in March 1993 to increase the sector ministries'
responsibilities in the preparation and monitoring of performance plans, while retaining authority to
define the policies applicable to performance plans and to oversee their implementation and
evaluation. CONFIS retains powers to directly manage performance plans with entities that have
special fiscal or policy significance. Thus, sector authorities have now primary responsibility for
most existing performance plans. CONFIS retains direct control of the plans for ECOPETROL,
TELECOM, IDEMA and COLPUERTOS.
30.        The PPES has played a catalytic role in bringing together key decision makers and
defining in explicit, monitorable terms the corporate reform objectives and performance targets for
key public entities. Performance plans have been instrumental in focusing the attention of Finance,
Planning and the respective sectors on formulation and implementation of sector reforms. They have
also generated clear mandates and accountability for public sector managers.
Privatization Component
Loan Condition                The Government has defined strategies and a satisfactory related
schedule of actions for the privatizafion or restructuring, aimed
at total or partial divestment, of Banco de Colombia.
This condition has been met.
V The Government has ensured the professionalism of the performance evaluation process by usigning dh
Comptroller Geneal Office a centrl role in the evaluation of performance plsns.



APPENDIX B
-8 -
31.        Government actions in the area of bank privatization have gone beyond the requirements
of this tranche condition. The Government has publicly announced its decision to sell Banco de
Colombia (the largest commercial bank) as well as Banco del Estado (a medium-sized commercial
bank). These are the only two banks, among those nationalized during the financial crisis in the early
1980's, that remain under state control. The Cabinet recently approved the terms of sale of Banco de
Colombia. Pursuant to those terms, bank staff will have a first option to purchase 17 % of the capitaL
The remaining shares will be offered to the public through the stock market with some limitations to
ensure wide ownership distribution. Cabinet approval for the sale of Banco del Estado is expected in
the coming weeks. It is expected that the sale of both banks will be completed in early 1994.
32.        The Government has also initiated the process of divestment of Banco Cafetero, the
fourth largest commercial bank in the country. The valuation of the bank has been completed. Due
to the special relationship of this bank to the coffee industry, the Government has initiated direct
negotiations with industry representatives with a view to sell the bank at a price commensurate with
its estimated value. If negotiations are not successful, the Government would be in a position to offer
the bank to other investors following open bidding procedures.
33.        The actions taken by the Government in the area of bank privatization will radically
modify the property structure and improve the competitive environment in the financial sector in
Colombia. By the time planned divestrnents are completed, an additional 34% of total banking sector
assets will have been transferred to private investors, raising the private sector share of commercial
bank assets to 77%. At this point, the privatization program has already contributed to increases in
the number of market participants, including foreign investors.
Private Sector Development Component
Loan Condition        The Government has established a new institutional and regulatory
framework for the port sector aimed at allowing free competition
among public and private operators, including a uniform tariff regime
for private sector operators, a uniform compensation scheme for the
use of public resources and facilities and a transparent system to grant
licenses to port investors and operators.
This condition has been met.
34.        The Government has carried out a far reaching restructuring of its port sector which is
more ambitious than the policy objectives originally envisaged under the loan.
35.        The new sector regulatory framework is based on the division of responsibilities and
functions between three principal actors: (i) the Superintendency of Ports, responsible for sector
planning and regulation, which grants concessions and rights of use to private investors/operators, sets
infrastructure use tariffs and ensures a competitive environment; (ii) the Regional Port Societies
(RPSs) engaged in the administration and maintenance of public port facilities and in undertaking new
investments -these are profit seeking operations generating income from wharfage and storage
tariffs; and (iii) Private Operators (POs) responsible for the stevedoring, loading, unloading,
transferring, pilotage, tugging and vessel handling functions. POs are also profit seeking operations
with freedom to set their user charges.



APPENDIX B
-9-
36.;       The Superintendency of Ports is at this stage fully operational. It is receiving technical
assistance from various sources, including the loan's technical assistance component.
37.        RPSs have been established for the four main public port terminals, with the private
sector holding at least 70% of the stock and the balance distributed among national and regional
govermnents. The Superintendency has awarded the concessions on the four main public service
ports, that is, Santa Marta, Cartagena, Buenaventura and Barranquilla.
38.        POs are already fully in charge of operations in the four main public service ports. The
replacement of COLPUERTOS' operators did not generate any significant disruption in the handling
of the import/export traffic. Indeed, there are already initial indications of significant improvements
in efficiency and cost savings in port operations.
Loan Condition     The Government has defined an action plan to reform the institutional and
regulatory framework of the shipping sector aimed at further improving
sector competition and initiated its implementation, including the lowering
of the reserved quota on general import cargo to about 30% of total
general import cargo.
This condition has been met.
39.        The Government has undertaken major reforms towards the liberalization of its shipping
market that go beyond the tranche condition. It has fully eliminated the reserve quota system and
established free access by foreign vessels to Colombian ports. The Government has retained the right
to restrict access of foreign vessels from countries that restrict port access to Colombian vessels.
40.        The liberalization has brought about substantial improvements in the supply and quality
of shipping services. The number of companies operating in Colombia have increased from 45 to
over 200. Importers/exporters report a dramatic increase in the type and quality of shipping services.
The impact of liberalization in the pricing of shipping services has been mixed. While prices in the
Mexico/USA corridor declined between 30-35%, rates to Europe remain constant and increased
slightly in the routes to Japan. This result is due to the continued dominant role of shipping
conferences in the routes to Europe and Japan.
41.        The change led Flota Mercante Grancolombiana, the main domestic shipping company,
to initiate a major restructuring of its operations, covering a substantial reduction in labor costs,
modernization of its fleet (increasing the handling of cargo via containers from 20% in 1989 to 80%
in 1992), and aggressive marketing and business association efforts. As a result, Flota's recurrent
operational losses in the last decade have been reduced significantly and a small operational surplus is
expected in 1993.
Loan Condition     IDEMA's monopoly on agricultural imports has been replaced by a
transparent and automatic system enabling the private sector to freely
import agricultural products and import quotas have been replaced by a
tariff-based protection system.
This condition has been met.



APPENDIX B
- 10 -
42.        The Government has undertaken a far reaching reform in agricultural trade aimed at
enabling market forces a more determinant role in the pricing of agricultural products. In early 1991,
IDEMA's import monopoly on key agricultural products, as well as the system of import quotas
managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, were terminated. This highly discretionary protection
system was replaced with a tariff-based protection system that combines: (i) a free-import regime
based on price bands for some primary products (i.e. wheat, barley, rice, maize, sorghum and soy
beans) and their substitutes or derived products (about 60 customs positions); and (ii) a free-import
regime with fixed ad valorem tariffs ranging from 0 to 35 percent on all other agricultural products.
43.        As a result of the new agricultural trade regime, the private sector has rapidly assumed a
proactive role in agricultural marketing. This role has been further underpinned by the change in the
support price policy which links miniimum guaranteed prices to international prices rather than
prevailing domestic costs.
44.        The refornms are particularly noteworthy because trade liberalization has occurred during
a period characterized by several negative exogenous shocks on agriculture (i.e. drought, increased
guerrilla activity, domestic currency appreciation, and low international prices). Despite the
mounting pressure from domestic producers for increased protection, the Govermnment has so far
shown resolve to seek solutions that do not undermine the core of the reforms.
IE[. CONCLUSION
45.        All conditions for the release of the third tranche specified in the Loan Agreement have
been fully met. Based on the satisfactory achievement of the objectives of the program and the
compliance with the specific third tranche conditions, the Govermnent of Colombia has been advised
of the availability of the third tranche of the Loan in an amount of US$97 million equivalent.
Lewis T. Preston



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgnima de Refonna del Sector Publico             Pig. I
REPORTE DE EVALUA CION FINAL DEL
COMPONENTE DE POLITICA DEL PRO YECTO BIRF-32 78-CO.
PROGRAMA DE REFORMA DEL SECTOR PUBLICO
CCtIH IT- e   ~   ~                            Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pnrgrana de Reforma del Sector Publico                                         P*g. 2
CONTENIDO
INVTRODUCCION
PARTE I   REVISION GENERAL DEL PROGRAMA
1.           Panorama de la Economia 1987-1989 y Programa de Modemizaci6n adoptado en
1990.
2.           Objetivos del-Programa de Reforma del Sector Piiblico
3.            Areas que encauzaron el desarrollo del Programa
3.1              Desempeino Macroecon6mico
3.2              Planes de Desempeiio
3.3              Privatizaci6n
3.4              Desarrollo del Sector Privado
PARTE I       CUMPLIMIENTO  DE  LA  CONDICIONALIDAD, RFSULTADOS  DEL
PROGRAMA Y LECCIONFS DE LA EXPERENCIA
1.           Cumplimiento de la condicionalidad y resultados obtenidos.
1.1              Desempeno Macroecon6mico
1.2              Planes de Desempenlo
1.3              Privatizacion
1.4              Desarrollo del Sector Privado
2.           Lecciones de la Experiencia
2.1              Planes de Desempefio
2.2              Desarrollo del Sector Privado
PARTE ml    A CTUA CIONES DEL BANCO Y DEL GOBIERNO, SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL
PROGRAMA Y SUGERENCLAS PARA OPERA CIONES FUTURAS
1.           Actuaci6n del Gobiemo
2.            Actuaci6n del Banco
3.           Sostenibilidad del Programa
4.            Sugerencias para Operaciones Futuras
ANEXO
Cuadro 1.    Componente de politica y su condicionalidad. Segundo Tramo
Cuadro 2.    Componente de politica y su condicionalidad. Tercer Tramo
Cuadro 3.    Cumplimiento de la Condicionalidad y Resultados de los Planes de Desempefho
Cuadro 4.    Compromisos del Gobiemo en los Planes de Desempefio
Cuadro 5.    Compromisos de las Entidades en los Planes de Desempefto
Cuadro 6.    Condicionalidad y Resultados del Desarrollo del Sector Privado
Cuadro 7.    Programa de Privatizaciones del Plan de Desarrollo 1995-1998.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Prgmma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                          Pig. 3
REPORTE DE EVALUA CION FINAL DEL
COMPONENTE DE POLITICA DEL PRO YECTO BIRF-32 78-CO.
PROGRAMA DE REFORMA DEL SECTOR PUBLICO
INTRODUCCION
El presente documento recopila los aspectos generales del proyecto B[RF-3278-CO, Programa
de Reforma del Sector Publico. Para este prop6sito, el trabajo se ha dividido en tres partes. La
primera de ellas, es una revisi6n general del programa, en la que se identifican las condiciones
econ6micas sobre las cuales fue implementado, sus principales objetivos y las areas de politica
que encauzaron su desarrollo. La segunda parte, analiza el cumplimiento de la condicionalidad
en cada area de politica, los resultados obtenidos y las lecciones de la experiencia. En la tercera
y ultima parte, se evalilan no solo las actuaciones del banco y del prestatario, sino tambien la
sostenibilidad del programa y se dan algunas recomendaciones para operaciones futuras.
PARTE L REVISION GENERAL DEL PROGRA,MA
1. PANORAMA DELA ECONOM4 1987-1989 Y PROGRAMA DEMODERNIZACION
ADOPTADO EN 1990
Gracias al proceso de ajuste Ilevado a cabo por Colombia durante los anios 1984-1986, asi como
al impacto favorable del boom de la economia cafetera y a los mayores volumenes y mejores
precios obtenidos en la actividad petrolera, la economia mostr6 un desempefio aceptable para el
periodo 1987-1989: equilibrio fragil en la cuenta corriente, constante acumulaci6n de reservas
intemacionales y tasa de crecimiento promedio del producto cercana al 4%. No obstante los
logros alcanzados a finales de 1989, eran evidentes problemas de alta inflaci6n, desaceleraci6n
de la tasa de crecimiento del producto y deficits del Sector Publico en niveles cercanos al 2%
del PMB.
Los principales factores que incidieron positivamente en el resultado del sector externo, ademas
de la recuperaci6n de las cotizaciones externas del Cafe en 1988 y del Petr6leo en 1989', fueron
la politica de mantenimiento de la competitividad (depreciaci6n real) y el excedente de ahorro
generado por el sector privado.
En el sector publico, no obstante las mejoras logradas de I punto del PIB en los ingresos
tributarios y los superavits primarios generados cercanos al 1.7% del PIB, la carga promedio de
los intereses de la deuda (3.7% del PIB) ocasion6 d6ficits fiscales globales en el Sector Publico
no Financiero Consolidado del orden de 2% del PIB. Al igual que en el sector externo, el
resultado del sector puiblico es tambien altamente dependiente de los precios internacionales del
caf6 y del petr6leo, debido a la incidencia que tienen estos en los resultados operacionales del
Fondo Nacional del Cafe y de Ecopetrol, respectivamente, entidades que hacen parte del Sector
Pfiblico.
Estos dos productos representaron el 48% del total de las exportaciones en 1989.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Prgnuma de Reforna del Sector Publico                                               PAg. 4
En cuanto a los factores que influenciaron el nivel de la inflaci6n registrada en el periodo se
destacan: una politica monetaria que ratific6 presiones inflacionarias tanto del sector publico
como del sector privado, la politica de mantenimiento de la competitividad externa y la
indexacion general de la economia.
Programa de Modernizacion de la Economia de Mediano Plazo
En febrero de 1990, las autoridades colombianas conscientes de la necesidad de incrementar la
tasa de crecimiento del producto de largo plazo, decidieron estimular un aumento de
productividad en la inversi6n y en el uso de recursos tanto en el sector privado como en el
publico y para esto emprendieron un Programa de Modemizaci6n de la Economia que cambi6
radicalmente el modelo de desarrollo que se venia aplicando en el pais desde los afios 50's. El
Programa se encamin6, no s6lo a abrir la economia a la competencia intemacional sino tambien
a reducir y hacer mas efectivo el papel del Sector Puiblico. Para estos prop6sitos, se diseno un
conjunto de politicas en los sectores fiscal, monetario y extemo, consistentes con los objetivos
de: restaurar los niveles de crecimiento econ6mico de mediano plazo de 5%  a 6%  por afio,
reducir gradualmente la inflaci6n a niveles inferiores al 20%  y mantener las reservas
intemacionales a un nivel adecuado (5 meses de importaciones de bienes y servicios), como se
muestra en el cuadro 1.
Cuadm 1
Objetivos de Politica Macmecon6mica 1990-1994
OBlTIVOS MACROKCONONCO                 1990   !1991     1992    1993       1994
|MInflacion ( O/ O                     32.37    Lograr su reducci6n a 20% en 1994
Crecimiento PIB ('hz                     4.31    Alcanzar tasa de 6% de 1994
Reservas (meses de Imp. de bys)          5      Mantener constante el nivel de reservas
Deficit en Cuenta Corriente (%o PrB)     2.3    Menor a 1% en 1992
Deficit Sector Publico No Financiero (.% PIB)  2  Menor a 1% en 1992
Deuda I PIB (%)                         40      Alcanzar 35% en 1992
Servicio Deuda I Exportaciones (%)      45      Lograr 33% en 1992
El marco macroecon6mico del Programa de Modernizacion, contemplaba adicionalmente, la
reducci6n de los deficits del sector piiblico no financiero y de cuenta corriente de 2.3% y 2%2
del PIB en 1990 respectivamente, a menos de 1% en 1992, la mejora de los indicadores de deuda
Extema entre 1990 y 1992, deuda extema/PIB de 40% a 35% y servicio de la deuda/
exportaciones de 45% a 33% y la contencion de la expansi6n del credito del sector financiero
al sector Piiblico de 1% del PIB en 1990 a 0% en 1992
2  Valores de la Proyecci6n en Marzo de 1990.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgnuna de Refonna del Sector Publico                                        Pig. 5
Con el prop6sito de aumentar la competitividad del pais y garantizar el equilibrio
macroecon6mico mediante una racionalizaci6n del papel del Estado y un mejor desempefho en
su gesti6n, surge el Pmgrama de Refonna del Sector Pfiblico, soportado financieramente por
creditos del Banco Mundial y del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, como condicion bisica
para el exito del Programa de Modemizaci6n de la Economia.
2. OBJETIVOS DEL PROGRAMA DE REFORMA AL SECTOR PUBLICO
Los objetivos especificos del Programa de Reforma del Sector Piiblico, fueron mejorar la
pmductividad en el uso de activos del sector publico e incrementar la eficiencia en la asignacion
y el uso de recursos en sectores econ6micos con fuerte intervenci6n estatal.
Para mejomar la prductividad en el uso de activos del sector publico se definieron como
estrategias: i) la modemizaci6n del sistema de manejo de entidades piiblicas descentralizadas en
sectores en los que el Gobierno, por razones estrategicas, decidi6 mantener su intervenci6n
(petr6leo, electrico, etc) y ii) la reducci6n del campo de acci6n del sector pfiblico en sectores que
el sector privado puede desarrollar mas eficazmente (financiero e industrial), para centrarse en
sectores prioritarios (social, justicia, etc).
Las estrategias definidas para incrementar la eficiencia en la asignaci6n y el uso de recursos en
sectores econ6micos criticos para el exito de la intemacionalizaci6n de la economia, como
puertos, telecomunicaciones, etc, buscaron concretamente promover el desarrollo del sector
privado en dichos sectores, mediante: i) la eliminaci6n de los monopolios publicos o cuasi-
piiblicos y ii) la creaci6n de estructuras que garantizaran un ambiente mis competitivo en los
diferentes sectores.
3. AREAS DE POLITICA QUE ENCA UZA RON EL DESARROLLO DEL PROGRAMMA
Para encauzar las acciones pertinentes en cada una de las estrategias definidas, se establecieron
cuatro a.reas o componentes de politica, con el fin de evaluar el cumplimiento del pais en el
desarrollo del programa: i) desempefio macroeconomico, ii) Planes de desempenlo, iii)
privatizacion y iv) promoci6n del desarrollo del sector privado.
3.1 Area de Desempefio Macroecon6mico
Esta area fue definida para monitorear que junto con el cumplimiento del programa de Reforma
del Sector Publico, se fueran consiguiendo los objetivos propuestos por el Gobiemo en el
Programa de Modemizaci6n Econ6mica.
3.2 Area de Planes de Desempefio
El area de Planes de Desempefio, se concibi6, en primera instancia, para coordinar la gesti6n de
las empresas con el programa macroeconomico y con las politicas del sector correspondiente.
Para esto el gobiemo debia negociar y suscribir "contratos de desempeflo" con determinadas
empresas .
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgn>na de Reforma tdel Sector Publico                                          Pig. 6
En segundo termino, la suscripci6n de los contratos buscaria no solo la eficiencia econ6mica en
la operaci6n de las empresas publicas (obtenci6n de mejores rendimientos financieros,
autosostenimiento y criterios econ6micos en materia de precios e inversi6n), sino tambien la
reducci6n del papel del gobiemo y la promoci6n de la participaci6n del sector privado en ciertos
sectores (liquidaci6n y reestructuraci6n de entidades). Como parte del primer grupo debian
establecerse convenios con empresas del area electrica, hidrocarburos y comunicaciones, en tanto
que en el segundo con entidades p6blicas de los sectores de vivienda social, agricola, ferroviario
y de puertos.
3.3 Area de Prvitizaci6n
Este componente tuvo como fin, reducir la importante participaci6n del gobiemo en el area
financiera (25.4%3), participacion que fue producto del proceso de nacionalizaci6n de la banca
a comienzos de los ochentas's. La reducci6n se hizo considerando fundamentalmente, la necesidad
del gobiemo de recentrarse en sectores prioritarios, como la salud y la educaci6n y la
conveniencia dados los s6lidos indicadores financieros, que en t6rminos de solvencia, capital y
rentabilidad, mostraban las entidades financieras a comienzos de la presente decada.
3.4 Area de Desarrollo del Sector Prvado
Este componente tuvo incidencia en los sectores de puertos, transporte maritimo, vivienda de
interes social y mercadeo agricola, donde los monopolios de instituciones estatales terminaron
por crear ineficiencias en el sector. Problemas como una clara confusi6n con respecto a los
objetivos de las empresas (si eran econ6micos o sociales), influencias mas de tipo politico que
tecnico en el manejo laboral y financiero de las empresas, crecimientos mayores en los costos
de personal y pasivos sociales que en los ingresos, perdida de capacidad competitiva, rezago
tecnol6gico y minima preocupaci6n por la eficiencia, hicieron imprescindible la busqueda de
mejoras en la calidad de la gesti6n puiblica, en los niveles de desempenio, en la motivaci6n y en
el grado de compromiso de los directivos de estas.
Ademas, como condici6n necesaria para el exito de la internacionalizaci6n de la economia, era
imprescindible que en sectores como puertos y transporte maritimo, se eliminaran los sobrecostos
que ocasionaba la ineficiencia.
Los cuadros I y 2 del anexo, muestran las condiciones especificas que debian ser cumplidas en
cada area, como requisito previo al desembolso del segundo y tercer tramo del cr6dito.
3  Activos / Total activos del Sistema Financiero: Banco de Colombia: 15.2%, Banco del Estado: 4.7%,
Banco del Comercio: 4. 1%, Banco Tequendama:0.8% y Banco de los Trabajadores 0.6%.
Mayo 31 de 1ms



APPENDIX C (i)
Progmma de Reforma del Sector Puiblico                                         Pag. 7
PARTE HI  CUMPLIMIENTODELA CONDICIONALIDAD, RFSULTADOSOBTENIDOS
Y LECCIONES DE LA EPERIENCIA
Esta parte se ha dividido en dos secciones. La primera de ellas, establece el cumplimiento de la
condicionalidad y los resultados obtenidos en cada uno de los componentes de politica, mientras
que la segunda presenta algunas lecciones de la experieneia
1. CUMPLIMIENTO DE LA CONDICIONALLDAD Y RESULTADOS OBTENID OS.
1.1 COMPONENVTE DE POLITICA - DESEMPEIO MA CROECON6MICO
Objetivos finales: Inflacion, Crecimiento del producto y Resenvas
Como se muestra en el Cuadro 2, para el cuatrienio 1990-1994, el Gobierno cumplio la
condicionalidad en este componente, pues logro los objetivos propuestos en el programa de
Modernizaci6n en matenra de inflaci6n, crecimiento del producto y balanza de pagos: redujo la
inflaci6n en 10 puntos y recuper6 altos ritmos de crecimiento sin afectar el nivel de las reservas
internacionales (5.9 meses).
Cuadm 2
Resultados de Pnncipales Indicadores Macmecon6micas 1990-1994
OBJTlVOS MACROECONOMICO     |_1990    1 1991   | 1992    1993   | 1994
Inflacion (/.               32.37    26.82    25.14   22.61    22.59
Crecimiento PIB (O/j          4-31    2.15     3.45    5.23     5.69
Reservas (meses de Inp. de bys)  5.9    8.9   . 8.8    6.9     5.91
En materia de inflaci6n, los factores decisivos que permitieron quebrar su tendencia a la alza,
fueron el proceso de apertura adoptado al interior del programa de modernizaci6n y la orientacion
definida que se dio a la politica monetaria de reducir la inflaci6n. La apertura jug6 un pape!
importante, ya que redujo los precios al consumidor no s6lo por efecto de una mayor oferta sino
tambien por la disminuci6n de los costos de los insumos de los productores nacionales. Por otra
parte, la orientaci6n dada a la politica monetaria junto con la independencia del Banco de la
Republica, crearon un sesgo anti-inflacionario que fue reforzado por la Constituci6n de 1991, al
prohibir el credito del Banco al Sector privado y al sector piiblico, solo posible en este ultimo
sector con la unanimidad de los miembros de la Junta Directiva.
En cuanto a los factores que favorecieron la tendencia creciente del pmducto, se encuentran la
recuperaci6n de la dinamica de la inversi6n, totalmente ausente en la d6cada anterior, y la
liberalizaci6n comercial llevada a cabo, la cual no s6lo gener6 un ambiente propicio al caniblo
t6cnico sino que .ambien aument6 la productividad de los factores.
Ms,vo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrama de Refonna del Sector Publico                                               Pfig. 8
Objetivos intermedios: Cuenta corriente, deficitfiscal e indicadores de deuda
Los resultados en los objetivos intermedios (Cuadro 3) se lograron en buena parte si se observa
la evoluci6n del deficit fiscal y de los indicadores de deuda. En cuanto al resultado en cuenta
corriente durante el periodo 1990-1994, este fue ampliamente favorable en 1990, 1991 y 1992,
deteriorandose rapidamente en 1993 y 1993. Debe tenerse en cuenta que este resultado de las
cuentas extemas fue afectado por varios factores que no eran previsibles en el momento en que
se adopt6 el programa: En los primeros anios la lenta respuesta del sector privado ante la
gradualidad de la apertura, asi como la masiva afluencia de capital extranjero, contribuyeron al
resultado positivo de la cuenta corriente, en tanto que, los bajos precios intemacionales del cafe
y el petr6leo, el descubrimiento y la declaraci6n de comercialidad de Cusiana y la adjudicaci6n
de la concesi6n de la telefonia Celular, son los principales elementos que explican el rapido
deterioro del Balance Extemo, ademrns de la aceleraci6n de la apertura.
Cuadr 3
Mnamo Macmeconomico 1990-1994
|MARCO MACROECONOMICO                11990  |1991  |1992 11993  |1994
Deficit del SPNF (% PIB1)             (0.57)   0.04   (0.22)   0.13    2.61
Saldo DeudaIPIB (/4)                  30.00   32.00   28.00   25.00  22.00
Servicio Deuda PNblicuJExportaciones ("/    46.84   43.43   47.80   42.60  37.85
Deficit Cuenta Coniente (%PEB)         1.35   5.52    1.86   (3.87)  (4.40)
En el Area fiscal, no obstante los mayores requerimientos de gastos, para adelantar los procesos
de descentralizacion, modemizacion del estado y fortalecimiento de los sectores justicia y
defensa, y las menores disponibilidades ocasionadas por la apertura comercial (caida en el
recaudo de impuestos a la actividad extema), la politica fiscal Ilevada a cabo en el marco del
programa de reforma al Sector Ptblico, contribuy6 a la estabilizaci6n econ6mica, no s6lo
manteniendo un equilibrio fragil en su balance4, sino ademas implementando un esquema de
financiaci6n no inflacionaria de los deficits.
Parte de la financiaci6n se logr6 mediante la promulgaci6n de dos reformas tributarias, una en
1990 y la otra en 1992, las cuales ademas de fortalecer los ingresos comrentes, establecieron una
estructura tributaria mas eficiente, y parte mediante la novedosa emisi6n de titulos en el mercado
intemo de capitales (TES- Titulos de la Tesoreria).
En materia de deuda, la coyuntura intemacional de bajas tasas de interes y la estrategia definida
de diversificaci6n de fuentes de financiamiento, permitieron el acceso del pais a importantes
mercados de capitales extranjeros (hubo un buen posicionamiento del Gobierno Nacional en los
4  Si en 1994 no se consideran los ingresos por privatizaciones y telefonia celular (2.62% del PIB), el
resultado del SPNF es casi un equilibno (deficit de 0.01%'del PIB).
Mayo 31 de 19s



APPENDIX C (i)
Prnignma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                               Pig. 9
mercado Americano5 y Japones y de entidades puiblicas como ECOPETROL y la FEN en el
Europeo). La colocaci6n de bonos, no solamente se constituy6 en un mecanismo de sustitucion
de deuda costosa ya contraida, sino que ademas se consolid6 como una nueva fuente de
financiaci6n externa6. Las sustituciones Ilevadas a cabo junto a los prepagos de deuda onerosa,
realizados con recursos obtenidos por privatizaciones, fueron elementos determinantes en la
mejora del perfil de la deuda extema.
La cuenta comente se vi6 afectada en primer lugar, por la aceleraci6n del proceso de apertura
econ6mica7. Esta aceleraci6n, ademas de imprimir una gran dinamica a las importaciones,
permiti6 resolver problemas que se habian generado en el manejo de los agregados monetarios,
a causa tanto del estancamiento del sector privado (producto de la gradualidad del proceso), como
de la inesperada y masiva afluencia de capital de los paises desarrollados. Adicionalmente, la
cuenta comente incorpor6 el aumento que en las importaciones, ocasionaron los proyectos de
Cusiana y telefonia Celular, y el deterioro de los ingresos por exportaciones, debido a la caida
de los precios intemacionales del cafe y el petr6leo.
El importante deficit en cuenta cornente registrado en 1994 (4.4% del PIB), ante la consolidaci6n
de la apertura y la proxima culminaci6n de inversiones relacionadas en proyectos como Cusiana
y Telefonia Celular, no compromete la estabilidad de la economia en el mediano plazo. Mas aun
si se considera que este ha sido financiado principalmente con inversion extranjera y
endeudamiento privado.
1.2 COMPONENTE DE POLfITCA - PLANES DE DESEMPENO
Aun cuando se firmaron los planes de desempefio convenidos al interior del programa (Cuadro
3 del Anexo), los resultados obtenidos de su implementaci6n no pueden ser generalizados. Si bien
algunas empresas no solo cumplieron, sino que excedieron las metas establecidas (INLTRBE,
TELECOM, ECOPETROL, algunas empresas del Sector Electrico), otras por el contrario
mostraron un pobre desempeho en el cumplimiento de los mismos (HIMAT).
5  Los mdrgenes obtenidos por Colombia en las emisiones realizadas en 1 994,son menores a los ofrecidos por
el gobierno Mexicano (uno de los mas fuertes emisores latinoamericanos).
6  El Sector Puiblico espera obtener de esta fuente, recursos por valor de US$2 mil millones para el periodo
1995-1998.
7  El proceso en un comienzo contemplaba tanto para la disminuci6n del arancel promedio de 38% a 16%
como para la eliminaci6n total de la sobretasa a las importaciones, un lapso de cuatro afios. No obstante,
la aceleraci6n hizo que en septiembre de 1991 se culminara, lo que estaba previsto finalizar en 1994
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrama de Reforma del Sector Publico                                              Phg. 10
Como lineamiento general de los convenios suscritos, en materia de compromisos8 adquiridos por
el Gobierno (Cuadro 3 del anexo), el Gobierno limito su acci6n en las entidades, a la definici6n
de los objetivos generales y estrategicos que guiaran su operaci6n, al establecimiento de politicas
(sectoriales, precios, tarifas,etc) y a la movilizacion de recursos para ciertos objetivos.
En cuanto a los compromisos adquiridos por las entidades (cuadro 4 del anexo), se orientaron o
hacia la implementacion de acciones que racionalizaran el sector piublico (metas de reducci6n en
plantas de personal y en gastos de funcionamiento y establecimiento de ventas de activos) o hacia
los elementos que condujeran a mejorar sustancialmente su eficiencia (establecimiento de
sistemas de contabilidad de costos9 y programas de recuperacion de costos, entre otros).
Es importante anotar que los convenios no fueron camisas de fuerza, por el contrario estos fueron
ajustados cuando asi lo demandaron las condiciones sectoriales. Por ejemplo, el convenio con
ECOPETROL, debi6 ser modificado ante la declaraci6n de comercialidad de Cusiana, en tanto
que el de TELECOM, fue completamente redefinido ante la negativa por parte del sindicato a
la privatizaci6n de la entidad.
1.3 COMPONENTE DE POLiTICA - PRIVA TIZA CION.
Fueron vendidos los bancos de los Trabaj adores, del Comercio, Tequendama y de Colombia. El
Gobiemo busc6 dar completa transparencia al proceso, estableciendo primero el precio minimo
de venta (o precio de mercado) de los bancos, mediante procesos de licitaci6n, y luego
definiendo tanto el numero de lotes de acciones a ofrecer como el mecanismo para su
ofrecimiento. En las ultimas negociaciones el Gobiemo, por mandato constitucional, debi6 ofrecer
en primer lugar las acciones de los bancos, a los trabajadores, pensionados, fondos de empleados
del banco, fondos mutuos de inversi6n y en general a las organizaciones solidarias.
Los Bancos de los Trabajadores, del Comercio y Tequendama, fueron vendidos durante el
segundo semestre de 1991. No obstante, la pequenia participaci6n de los tres bancos agregados,
dentro del sector financiero (5.2%), su privatizaci6n dej6 un importante precedente, sobre la
decisi6n del gobierno, de llevar a termino los planes propuestos de racionalizaci6n de la acci6n
del estado.
Todos los procesos de venta, fueron exitosos si se considera. que en todos ellos, el precio de
venta efectivo supero considerablemente el precio minimo establecido. Asi, el precio minimo de
venta del Banco de los Trabajadores, era de $2500 millones y el .precio obtenido fue de $3225
millones. En cuanto al Banco tequendama, se vendio a un precio de $20.723 millones, superior
8 En todos los convenios, quedaron establecidos claramente. los objetivos perseguidos en el convenio, los
compromisos del gobiemo y de las directivas de la empresa, la duraci6n del contrato y la forma de
control, seguimiento v posterior evaluacion del mismo.
Con el fin de asociar a cada producto su costo respectivo y para hacer claridad acerca de los precios de
venta que hacia el futuro garantizarian un desempeflo eficiente.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgmma de Refonna (lel Sector Publico                                        Pag. 11
tambien al precio minimo establecido de $12.200 millones.
El precio de venta del Banco del Comercio, que a diferencia de los dos bancos anteriores fue
vendido en tres y no en un solo lote, fue de $ 48,102 millones, en tanto que su precio minimo
era de $ 29,800 millones.
La venta del Banco de Colombia, hecha al sector privado en enero de 1994, fue realizada por
valor de $401,000 millones. muy superior a su precio minimo de $300,000 millones. Su venta
se realiz6 a traves de dos lotes de acciones, rematados en operaciones de martillo en las bolsas
de valores.
1.4 COMPONENTE DE POLITICA - DESARROLLO DEL SECTOR PRIVADO
En todos los sectores, se di6 un buen cumplimiento de la condicionalidad establecida, se
eliminaron monopolios de entidades del sector publico en los sector de vivienda social, transporte
maritimo y mercadeo agricola. En el sector de puertos, la eliminaci6n conllev6 a la liquidaci6n
de la entidad COLPUERTOS (no programada inicialmente).
El proceso de recentraje del Estado en ciertas actividades, eliminando o reduciendo su
participaci6n en algunos sectores, asi como la eliminaci6n parcial o total de los monopolios
piiblicos durante el periodo 1991-1993, se manifest6 en retiros a funcionarios, cuyo costo se
muestra en el Cuadro 4. Este fue equivalente a 0.1%, 0.2% y 0.3% del PIB de cada afno
respectivamente, y obedecio a los pagos que fueron realizados en las dos modalidades de retiro
ofrecidas (indemnizaciones pagadas de una sola vez o indemnizaciones para cancelar durante un
tiempo no inferior a 20 afios).
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pwgtmma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                        Piag. 12
Cuadm 4
Costo de los Pnncipales Planes de Retim
(S Millones)
1991       1992        1993
A. Modoaidad de Retiro con Indemmdzacion
Corporacion Nacional de Tunsmo (CNT)                      3069
Instituto de Comercio Exterior (INCOMEX)                   1006
Feffocaniles Nacionales                                   3973        2826
Congreso de la Republica                                              9709
Inurbe                                                               10673
Colpuertos                                                            2285        4500
Contralona General                                                                13273
Instituto Geografico Codazzi                                                      4365
DANE                                                                              3712
IFI-Concesi6n de Salinas                                                          6800
Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario (ICA)                                           9089
Instituto de Refonna Agraria (INCORA)                                             8356
Instituto de Meteorologia (HIMAT)                                                 3179
Caja de Previsi6n Social (CAJANAL)                                                7000
Fondo Vial Nacional                                                               5711
Ministerio de Obras P6iblicas                                                     4089
Ministerio de Hacienda                                    9228       11357         1808
Instituto del Transporte (INTRA)                                                  2572
Otros                                                      1375       2377        14835
BR Modalidad de Retiro con Anficipo de Pension
Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecua.(IDEMA)                     103       3297        4284
Ferrocamles Nacionales                                    8553       10434
Fondo Vial Nacional                                                               3156
Colpuertos                                                5650        6208       31359
Otros                                                      1436       2318        4013
C COSTO TOTAL PLANES DE RETIRO                          25839  59603  142535
En una muestra realizada por la Direcci6n General del Presupuesto en algunas entidades que
Ilevaron a cabo planes de retiro (Cuadro 5), se encontr6 que fueron eliminados 42,241 cargos del
sector publico. No obstante, el ahorro de cargos que se lograra mediante estos planes de retiro,
fue luego practicamente compensado, por el aumento en las plantas de los sectores de defensa,
seguridad y justicia.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrama de Reforna del Sector Publico                                             Pag. 13
Cuadm 5
Cantidad de Funcionaiios Retirados
1991           1992             1993
FelTocarles Nacionales                   1843           3310
INI)RBE                                                  1296
Miriisteno de lHacienda                  2491           2677              375
Colpuertos                               1140           2969             3163
Contralona                                                131            2719
Instituto Agropecuanio (ICA)                                             1882
Cajanal                                                                  1900
Fondo Vial Nacional                                                      2192
Otros                                    1611           2521            10001
Total jftins                             7085           12924           22232
Tanto la reducci6n o eliminaci6n de monopolios del sector piiblico, como los avances logrados
en materia de promoci6n del sector privado, en cada uno de los sectores de puertos, transporte
maritimo, vivienda social y agropecuario se detallan a continuacion y se resumen en el cuadro
6 del Anexo.
En el sector portuano, mediante la ley I de 1991, se decret6 la liquidaci6n COLPUJERTOS
(desarrollada mediante un PLAN DE DESEMPENO) y adicionalmente se distribuyeron e
independizaron las funciones que llevaba a cabo esta empresa: la funci6n de planeacion y
regulacion del sector, se delego a la recien creada Superintendencia General de Puertos, la de
administraci6n de la infraestructura portuaria a las Sociedades Portuarias Regionales (entidades
de caracter mixto) y la de operaci6n en los puertos se entreg6 a operadores privados. Este nuevo
esquema, permiti6 no solo reducir las tarifas en 52%, sino  el tiempo de permanencia de los
buques en puertos de 6 a 3 dias. Adicionalmente se lograron incrementos de 60%
aproximadamente, en la productividad del sector.
En el area de transporte maiitimo, con la ley 49 de 1990, se elimin6 completamente el limite
impuesto a trasatlanticos extranjeros para la remision de sus ingresos por fletes. Asi mismo,
mediante el Decreto 2327 de 1991, se sustituy6 el sistema de cuotas de reservas por un r6gimen
de entrada libre para todas las compafiias de embarque. La entrada libre qued6 sujeta s6lo a un
tratamiento reciproco del pais de origen de la naviera. Como resultado de estas reformas, se
increment6 de 45 a 200, el nuzmero de companiias operando en Colombia en este sector.
Adicionalmente, se forz6 un proceso de reestructuraci6n en la Flota Mercante Grancolombiana,
que se tradujo en una disminuci6n significativa de sus perdidas operacionales (permanentes
durante la ultima decada). El proceso de reestructuracion de la Flota, contempl6 una reducci6n
substancial de costos laborales y una agresiva estrategia de mercadeo de servicios.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Prmgrama de Refonna del Sector Publico                                         Pag. 14
En cuanto a] area de metradeo agncola, con la ley 7 de 1991, se desmont6 la exclusividad de
las importaciones, que para algunos bienes agropecuarios, detentaba el IDEMA y mas tarde con
la expedicion del Decreto 2136 eni 1992, se limit6 su operacion a casos de fallas en el mercado,
relegando su funci6n de regulaci6n en la comercializaci6n intema (la reorganizaci6n acorde con
sus nuevas funciones, fue manejada mediante un PLAN DE DESEMPENO). Para promover la
participaci6n del sector privado, se sustituyo el sistema de cuotas de importaci6n por un sistema
arancelario flexible. El IDEMA, se limitaria a comprar y abastecer zonas marginales, donde la
comercializaci6n no fuera ren-table para el sector pnrvado (pactado en PLAN DE DESEMPENO).
No obstante este nuevo marco institucional y legal, la presi6n de productores domesticos,
justificada con bajos precios internacionales y actividad guerrillera, forzaron la promulgaci6n de
la ley 101 a fines de 1993, la cual retrocedio en lo establecido anteriormente, fortaleciendo al
IDEMA para ampliar su intervenci6n en zonas de agricultura comercial y para participar con
capital en empresas de comercializaci6n.
En el area de vivienda de interes social La ley 3 de 1991 liquidb el monopolio del ICT y en su
lugar cre6 el INUTRBE, restringiendolo a administrar los subsidios directos de vivienda y a
promover el desarrollo de proyectos de vivienda social. Por otra parte, fue eliminado el esquema
de inversiones forzosas del sector financiero y al mismo tiempo, se llevo a cabo la refinanciaci6n
las deudas del ICT con el Sector Financiero, mediante bonos negociales a 10 anios con tasa de
rendimiento de 21% anual. (la reestructuraci6n se manejo mediante un PILAN DE
DESPEMPENO). Los resultados de la reestructuraci6n fueron, reducci6n de los costos de
funcionamiento (de 3000 a 600 empleados), aumento de la proporci6n de los recursos fiscales a
los beneficiarios, sustancial incremento en el promedio anual de soluciones de vivienda  de
interes social otorgadas por el ICT, y crecimiento del 68% de la inversion total (privada y
puiblica) en el sector, del periodo 1991-1994 frente al cuatrienio anterior.
2.     LECCIONES DE LA EXPERIENCIA
2.1. MECANLSMO DE PLANES DE DESEMPENVO
Los planes de desempeno, se constituyeron en un instrumento fundamental, tanto para la
coordinacion de la gesti6n de las ernpresas con la programaci6n macroeconomica y la politica
del sector, como para el mejoramiento del desempeno operacional y financiero de las entidades.
El inecanismo fue util para lograr avances importantes en la calidad de la gesti6n piiblica. Con
los convenios no s6lo se logro imponer criterios t6cnicos sino ademas se pudo limitar la
influencia de criterios de tipo politico sobre el manejo laboral y financiero de las empresas. En
este aspecto, tambien fueron definitivos los procesos de seguimiento y evaluaci6n a los
convenios, ya que permitieron el establecimiento de indicadores sectoriales de desempefio, ba.sicos
en el momento de comparacion del nivel de eficiencia entre las diferentes empresas.
No obstante las grandes posibilidades del instrumento, este no es en si mismo garantia de exito.
Mientras existan aspectos fuera de control de la empresa, como estructura del mercado, sistema
de precios y tarifas, etc. el apoyo del gobiemo tanto .iac;onal como regional, sera definitivo para
el total cumplimiento de los objetivos financieros.
Mayo 31 de 1995



AIPPFN IX1 N C
Pmgrama de Reforrna (lei Sector P6blico                                         Pag. 15
Por ultimo, se puede decir que los convenios son susceptibles de grandes mejoras en tertninos
de atraer la motivaci6n y el compromiso de los directivos de las empresas. Un ambicioso
programa de incentivos al cumplimiento del convenio. lieva per se, el cumplimien'to del interes
publico. No obstante, deberia disefiarse junto con el progrania de incentivos, un programa die
sanciones ejemplares en caso de incumplimiento, que promuv;a la obtencion de resultados v
genere una cultura de autocontrol
2.2. DESARROLLO DEL VECTOR PRIJADO
La lecci6n mas importante en cuanto al desarrollo del sector privado fue la necesidad de contar
con marcos institucionales y regulatorios apropiados para garantizar al sector privado el
funcionamiento del mercado en un ambiente de comnpetencia. Los importantes avances en ia
participacion del sector privado en sectores como puertos, nfraestructura vial, puertos y
aeropuertos, gas y oleoductos, teiecomunicaciones y generaci6n de eniergia se lograron en
ambientes de transici6n de la regulacion tarifaria y de operaci6n en estos sectores.
En otras palabras lo inciplente de los nuevos marcos regulatorios asi como los cambios
institucionales y legales amparados en ia nueva orientacion del estado como regulador (Ley de
servicios Piublicos, Ley El6ctrrca) el Nuevo Estatuto de ContrataciThn del Sector Piublico (Ley 80
de 1993) retrasaron la decisi6n de mayor participaci6n del sector privado. Adizionalmente ior
procesos de liquidaci6n o de reestructuracion de las entidades se enfrentaron coil problenias de
indole politica que tom6 tiempo, ademas de costos adiclonales, superar.
La mayor participaci6n del sector privado en cl sector agricola, iniciada con el desmonte del
monopolio del IDEMA  y la reestructuraci6n de esta entidad,  f-ae en muchas ocasiones
modificada por la presion gremial y politica en este sector. Diversos intentos para introducir
mecanismos de mercado en los agenies de este sector fracasaron ante las condiciones de pcebreza
y violencia que viven las zonas rurales en el pais La experiencma intemacional dernuestra qut' ia
regulaci6n de la participaci6n del estado eni los sectores agropecuarios. no siempre esti g.iiada
por objetivos de eficiencia v competitividad Haber propuesto corno meta en Colombia in (ambio
radical en la forma de regulacion del sector, pasc5 por alto ki oxcesiva protecci6n con que sierrnpre
ha contado este sector justificada, quizas de manera exagerada, con los problema'; de violen.a
y narcotrafico que golpean las zonas rurales   La caida en los precios intemnacionales v
condiciones climAticas adversas en 1992 ohligaron a aumentar la protecci6n en el sector y
justificaron la Ley 101 de 1993 o Ley agricola en donde se reviven los subsidios y de otorg,.,
nuevamente institucionalidad a los creditos concesionales
PARTE IH7.   A CTUA CI(I)F)VS DEL GOIHERN(O I' DEL BA NC-0, SCJSTEN/BILII)A L) DIEfi
PROGRAMC'A Y STWER.NC'JTS P4R4 IPERA CIONliS F77TUR-12l.
1. A CTUA CION DFEL GOBIFRN')
El Gobiemo mostr6 uwn decidicdo comrromiso con ila rc,Eorma dei Secitr pihbIco, desde ei
rnomento en que el CONPES aprobo el Prol.,rama de Mkocmrn!zLtIn econoniica de mediano pla.lo
en febrero de sis90, duranto ia a6in irac  B r Iarce
l,aw,w  ds' 199'S



APPENDIX C (i)
Progmma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                        PAg. 16
Mas tarde, la administracion Gaviria no solo reafirm6 su compromiso con el programa, sino que
busc6 imprimir mayor agresividad a su alcance. La Presidencia de la Republica, mediante la
Consejeria para la Modernizaci6n del Estado, ejerci6 directamente en todo momento, la funci6n
de coordinaci6n en el Proceso de Modernizacion. Esta actitud sin precedentes en el pais',
permiti6 no s6lo llevar a cabo la gran mayoria de acciones de politica propuestas en el programa,
sino ademas sentar bases firmes para su sostenibilidad en el futuro.
2. A CTUA CION DEL BANCO
La contribuci6n del Banco fue activa no s6lo en lo que se refiere al disefio del programa, sino
tambi6n en cuanto al seguimiento del cumplimiento de la condicionalidad.
Adicionalmente, un aspecto de resaltar, fue la importante contribuci6n del Banco para la
sostenibilidad de las reformas implementadas, al establecer junto con la operaci6n de credito para
el ajuste estructural del sector puiblico, operaciones de credito sectoriales que permitieran
garantizar la continuidad de las actividades iniciadas. Este es el caso del credito otorgado para
el sector transporte.
3. SOSTENIBLDAD DEL PROGRAMA
La sostenibilidad en materia de planes de desempeino es un hecho. Se espera que estos se
conviertan, por lo menos en el area electrica, en un requisito previo que deben cumplir las
electrificadoras para acceder a creditos otorgados por la FEN. Asi mismo, TELECOM,
ECOPETROL, y otras empresas de importancia fiscal han continuado en el proceso de
suscripci6n de nuevos contratos. Adicionalmente, convenios firmados con el Instituto Nacional
de Vias y FERROVIAS, cuya vigencia expirara s6lo hasta 1996, se continuaran monitoreando
y evaluando hasta entonces. La experiencia con la negociaci6n y seguimiento de esta herramienta
ha sido un elemento importante en el disenio de un sistema de seguimiento y evaluaci6n del
desempefio de la gesti6n publica, actualmente a cargo del D.N.P.
La continuidad de la politica de privatizaci6n en el sector financiem, fue plasmada en el Plan de
Desarrollo de la administraci6n Samper, recientemente aprobado por el Congreso para el periodo
1994-1998 (Cuadro 7.1 y 7.2 del Anexo). Este incluye tanto la venta del Banco Popular como
la venta del Banco Cafetero, durante el cuatrienio. Por la venta del Banco Popular, la Naci6n
estima recibir ingresos del orden de US$300 millones. Por su parte, el Fondo Nacional del Cafe,
estima que las acciones que pondra en venta del Banco Cafetero, ascienden a un valor
aproximado de US$90 millones. No obstante, ser un hecho el regreso del sector financiero a
manos del sector privado, el gobierno se ha preocupado por mantener un ambiente de sano
control, contemplado en la reforma hecha al sector financiero.
0 Ya que durante mucho ticmpo, fue el manejo prudente y cauteloso de la economia, el que caracterizd a
las autoridades de turno.
Mayo 31 de 1"5



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrnna de Refonna del Sector Publico                                          Pag. 17
En cuanto a la sostenibilidad del desarmllo del sector privado en las areas como puertos,
ferrocarriles, transporte maritimo, etc., el gobiemo no s6lo la ciment6 mediante la racionalizaci6n
de su acci6n en estas areas, sino que ademas trabaj6 en el establecimiento de superintendencias
de regulaci6n, cuyas funciones van mas alla del establecimiento de tarifas, pues estas estan
encargadas de regular tambien la gesti6n, las presencia de practicas desleales en el sector y la
calidad de los servicios entregados a los ciudadanos
En cuanto a la sostenibilidad de las reformas introducidas en el area de mercadeo agricola, es
fuertemente cuestionada, si se considera que las reformas que se introdujeron al IDEMA, fueron
luego practicamente reversadas con la aprobaci6n de la ley 101.de 1993.
Pero los espacios abiertos a la inversi6n privada, no se limitaron a las areas contempladas en la
carta de politica, pues tambien se alcanzaron importante avances en este sentido en el area de
comunicaciones (luego de la fallida privatizaci6n de TELECOM), en la cual para incentivar la
competencia en el sector, se permiti6 a los particulares participar en la prestaci6n de los servicios
de larga distancia y especialmente en aquellos de valor agregado como telefonia celular, correo
electr6nico, telefax y videotexto.
Adicionalmente, para el desarrollo del sector privado, el gobierno contempla tambien en el Plan
de Desarrollo 1994-1998, la venta de activos del sector electrico, asi como la adjudicaci6n de
concesiones en el sector aeroportuario, de vias y comunicaciones.
4. SUGERETVCIAS PARA FUTURAS OPERA CIONES
1. Con excepci6n de los objetivos para el sector agricola, este programa cont6 con un consenso
del equipo econ6mico que se tradujo en un exito de la Reforma propuesta. Es este, tal vez
el principal requisito para un proyecto similar en el futuro.
2.  La reestructuraci6n de varias entidades puiblicas, que reforz6 el Proyecto de Reforma del
Sector Publico, cont6 con la posibilidad legal otorgada por el articulo 20 transitorio de la
Constituci6n Nacional de 1991. Un prerrequisito de operaciones de esta misma indole es la
necesaria adecuaci6n de las condicionalidades a las normas juridicas vigentes en el pais. No
en todos los casos es posible modificar el entorno legal para cumplir a cabalidad las
condicionalidades. Un ejemplo que puede ilustrar esta necesidad es tal vez la incapacidad de
los convenios de desemperlo para inducir en todos los casos una mejor gesti6n. La falta de
herramientas legales para premiar o sancionar las buena o mala gesti6n de las Empresas,
limito las posibilidades de acci6n de este instrumentos.
3. Otra lecci6n de la experiencia en Colombia, sefiala la necesidad de vincular las reformas a
las entidades mas que a las autoridades del momento. Ello constituye la (mica garantia de
sostenibilidad del programa
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Progrnma de Reforma del Sector POlilico                                            Pig. 18
4.  T-al como oper6 en este Proyecto de Reforma, la operaci6n de credito de ajuste estructural
se constituyo en el primer paso, reforzado posteriormente por el otorgamiento de cr6ditos
sectoriales adicionales, a fin de que se garantice la prolongaci6n de las actividades iniciadas
on el proceso de ajuste global.
S   Seg6n lo seFialadro en las lecc ones de este Proyecto de Reforma, las condicionalidades en
materna de apertura de espac.ios al sector privado no fueron el todo consistentes con el
incipiente marco regultonro  Futuras operaciones deberian establecer un cronograma mas
p.eciso de los requisitos en terrninos de regulacion para permitir una mayor participacion
pnivada en los diferente:; sectores.
%ayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (6)
Pmgrnma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                              Pag. 19
ANEXO
NMayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgnma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                            Pag. 20
Cuadr 1
Componente de politica y su condicionalidad. Segundo Tramo Credito BIRF 3278-CO.
Componente                 [ Condici6n
Planes dc Desempeho          -  lmplementar Planes de  Desempeflo  con  INURBE, ECOPETROL,
TELECOM e HIMAT, consistentes con el objetivo del programa..
Firmar Planes de Desempefio con ISA, ICEL CORELCA  y CVC,
consistentes con el objetivo del programa..
Privatizacion                -  Venta de los Bancos de los Trabajadores, del Comercio y Tequendama.
Puertos
Reestructuraci6n de COLPUERTOS
Trahnsporte Maritmo
Eliminar limite impuesto a trasatlanticos extranjeros para remision de sus
ingresos por fletes.
Simplificar mecanismos para controlar el cumplimiento de reservas de
carga.
Reducir la cuota de reserva para la carga a granel a un porcentaje minimo
Desarrollo del Sector           del total de estas importaciones.
Privado
Vivienda de Intetrs Social
-  Eliminar monopolio del rNURBE.
-  Establecer estructura de incentivos para el sector que hagan mas atractiva
la participacion del sector privado en la construccion y financiaci6n de
vivienda de interes social.
-  Eliminaci6n de inversion obligatoria por el sector financiero como fuente
de fuianciamiento para INURBE y el establecimiento de un programa de
amortizaciones de los pasivos del ICT con el sector financiero.
-  Establecer un sistema ce subsidios de vivienda directos y dirigidos.
Msvo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgnuna de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                          PAg. 21
Cuadw 2
Componente de politica y su condicionalidad. Tercer Tnuno Cirdito BIRF 3278-CO.
[Componente                   Condicion
Planes de Desempenlo        -  Implementar  Planes  de  Desempefho  con  IDEMA,COLPUERTOS,
FERROVIAS y FONDO VIAL NACIONAL, consistentes con el objetivo
del programa.
-  Los Planes de Desempefno  ya impiementados (primer y segundo
conjunto), continuan llevandose a cabo, de acuerdo con sus terminos o
con las acciones remediales que han sido adoptadas
-  El Gobiemo continfia operando el sistema de planeaci6n del desempefio y
evaluacion de la gesti6n, acorde con los objetivos establecidos en la carta
de politica
Privatizaci6n               -  Sector Financiero. Definir estrateglas y un plan de acciones satisfactorio
relacionado para la privatizaci6n o reestructuraci6n, dingida a la venta
total o parcial del Bancos de Colombia.
Puereos
-  Establecer un nuevo marco institucional y regulatorio para el sector de
puertos encaminado a permitir la libre competencia entre los operadores
puiblicos y privados, incluyendo un regimen de tarifas uniforme para los
operadores del sector pnvado, un esquema de compensaci6n uniforme
para el uso de recursos puiblicos y facilidades y un sistema transparente
para otorgar licencias a los operadores e insersiormistas en los puertos.
Thnsporte Mantitimo
-  Definir un plan de acci6n para reformar el marco institucional y de
regulaci6n del sector dirigido a mejorar la competencia en el sector,
Desarrollo del Sector           iniciar su implementaci6n, incluyendo la disminuci6n de la cuota de
Privado                         reserva para la carga importada general a cerca del 30% del total de estas
importaciones.
Mercadeo Agrmpecuanio
-  Reemplazar el monopolio del IDEMA sobre las importaciones agricolas
por un sistema automatico y transparente que habilite al sector privado a
liberar productos agricolas importados y reemplazar las cuotas de
importacion por un sistema de protecci6n basado en tarifas.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrama dc Refonna del Sector Publico                                                             Pag. 22
Cuadm 3
Cumplimiento de la Condicionalidad y Resultados de los Planes de Desempehxo
SECTOR ENTIDAD                            PRMIERA FASE                                   SEGUNDA FASE
Vivienda  INURBE          Suscnpcion: Noviembre de 1990                   Suscfipci6n:
Social                    Vigencia: Diciembrc de 1991                     Vigencia: Diciembre de 1993
Objetivo s:                                     Ohjetivos
- Resolver problemas financieros (ba]o recaudo  - Mejorar eficiciencia en administracion y
de cartera) y administrativos (ineflcienicia\ Cln  entrega de susbsidios directos de vivienda y
cofnsiflccion) heredados dcl ICT.             - Promover el nuevo esquema del sector.
- Establecer plan para cancelacion del pasivo   Resultados:
con el sector financiero                      - No se cncontr6 infoirme de cvaluaci6n.
Resultados:
- Fueron cumplidos y en muchos casos
excedidlos los objetivos financieros *
operacionales.
Peth6leo   ECOPETROL       Suscripcion: Diciembre de 1991                  Susciipci6n: Noviembre de 1993
Vigencia:Noviembrc de 1992                      Vigencia: Diciembre de 1994
Objetivos:                                      Ohjetia:
- Coordinar la gesti6n de la empresa con la
d  - Coordinar la gesti6n de la empresa con la
prograrnaionmcocnmc    apitc                     rgaacion macrocconomica y la politica de
sector.                                        programacion macrocconmica v la politica de
-Mejras n clsenien-oopercionl v inaniercsector.
- Mejoras en lesempefiv operacional s financiert - Mejoras en desempenio operacional v
de la empnpresa.
Resultados:
- Se alcanyaron los obim;tivos convenidos,      Resultados:
incluvendo, a) e: limTite a gastos corrientes  d - Ecopetrol ha venido cnviando intormes
trimestrales de avance en el cumplirniento de
capital, madxirno ende-adamiento y nivel de    los objetivos propuestos.
transferencias al (iobierno Central, b) la
iinplementacion inicial del Sistema de Costos. ObseFvadiones:
c,w l etudo deraconazaiOn  e prsoal, -. Fu6 modificado ante la deciaracion de
C? c! e estuidjo de racional,zacpon de personal.    cornercialidad de CISISANA
aunque este ultimo sufrio algunos retrasos.
Telecomun TELF(UM         Suscripcion Junio de 1991                       Suscripcion Septiembre de 1993
icaciones                  Vigencia Diciembre de 1991                      Vigencia:Abril de 1994
Objctivos.                                      Objetivos:
- Coordinar la gesti6n de la empTcsa con la     - Preparar la empresa para cl nuevo regimen de
programacion macroecon6mica ! ia politica del competencia en cl sector.
sector                                        - CoordinaT la gesti6n de la empresa con la
Me.joras en desernpen-o operacional y financier(  piograrnacion macrocconornica y la politica de
de la empresa                                   sector.
Resultado-                                      Resultados:
- La empresa no solo cumpli6. sino que excc&6 Observacione&
metas de dcsemp:fio especificas. como balance - Inicialmente tuvo como objetivo implementar
operacioral, reIucco1in (Ie planta N razon gastog  i3 privatizacion. fues modificado ante el
_________ _______________   corrientes/ingreso operacional bruto.           rechazo frontal del sindicato.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgrama de Reforna del Sector Publico                                                       Pag. 23
ISECrOR   ENTIDAD                       PRIMERA FASE                                 SEGUNDA FASE
Adecuacio HIMAT          Suscripcion: Junio de 1990
n agncola                VigenciaDictembre de 991
Objetivos:
- Mejorar la eficiencia de la entidad, en terminos
de recuperacion de costos, programas de
inversi6n v administracion de distritos.
Resultados:
- Su desempeflo fue pobre en el cumplimiento
de metas, especialmente recuperacion de
costos.
Sector    SECrOR         Suscripcion: Vanos
Electiico  ELEC[RICO     Vigencia: Varios
Objetivos:
- Debido a que la estrategia de Reforma del
Sector Electrico se encontraba en estudio, los
planes de desempefio buscaron ajustar las
compainias del sector electrico (ISA, ICEL,
CORELCA y CVC), al nuevo esquema del
sector.
- Los planes se orientaron a establecer objetivos
financieros y operaciones para mejorar su
desempeffo y eficiencia. Adicionalmente, se
incluyeron reformas estructurales, como la
division de ISA en 2 empresas y la venta de
funciones de comercializaci6n de ICEL v
CORELCA, etc.
Meivadeo  MENU- laffbtto  Suscripci6n: Diciembre de 1993
Agrnpecua de NMeredeo    Vigencia: Diciembre de 1994
no        Agmola         Objetivos:
- Adecuar la entidad a sus nuevas funciones y al
nuevo marco del sector.
Resultados: Por evaluar
Puentos    COLPUERTOS-  Suscripci6n Mavo de 1993
Empa Pucitos  Vigencia: Diciembre de 1993
de Colombia.    Objetivos:
- Asegurar el cumplimiento del cronograma de
liquidacion de COLPUERTOS y del traspaso
de activos y pasivos al Fondo de Pasivo Social
de COLPUERTOS
Fenoviano FERROVIAS      Suscripcion: Abril de 1993
Vigencia: Diciembre de 1996
Objetivos:
- Establecer plan financiero, operacional N de
inversi6n para el periodo 1993-1996. que
garantice la terminaclon del prograrna de
rehahilitacion de vias f6rreas  cl
autosostenimiento coniercial
Rcsultados: Sera redefinido pTjxnmenicnte
Mlayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgnima de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                       Pig. 24
SECTOR   ENTIDAD                       PRIMERA FASE                                 SEGUNDA FASE
ViAs      FONDO VIAL    Suscripci6n:
VigenciaDiciembre de 1996
Objetivos:
- Fortalecer su capacidad de planeaci6n y
asegurar la coordinacion adecuada con las
autoridades de Presupuesto. El plan establece
un programa de inversi6n y mantenimiento
para los aiAos 1993-1996.
Resultados: Auin no ha sido evaluado.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgamma de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                         Pig. 25
Cuadw 4
Compommisos del Gobiemo en los Planes de Desempenio
SECTOR   ENTIDAD   Establecemiento de politicas                           Movilizacion de recums
Vivienda  INURBE        - Convertir al ICT de constructor de vivienda a pro-
Social                   motor de proyectos de vivienda social y adminis-
trador de subsidios pilblicos a beneficiarios.
- Eliminar esquema vigente de financiamiento del
sector (nversiones forzosas del sector fmanciero) y
establecer plan para cancelacion del pasivo con dicho
sistema.
- Establecimiento de incentivos a la participacion del
sector privado en las operaciones del sector.
Mercadeo  IDEMA-        -                                                 - Financiar construccion de
Agmpecua Instituto de   -                                                  infraestructura comercial en zonas
io        Mercadeo                                                         marginadas.
Agricola                                                       - Financiar estudios para implantar
sistema de informacion gerencial.
Puetos    COLPUERTO -                                                    - Garantizar recursos para pago de
S- Empresa   -                                                  obligaciones pendientes al termino de
Puertos de                                                       la liquidacion.
Colombia.
Sector    SECTOR
Electdco   ELECTRICO
Telecomuni TELECOM    - Incrementar Is competencia en el servicio de larga    -Garantizar rubros del presupuesto que
caciones                 distancia nacional entre monopolio estatal -      garantices a TELECOM, el pago de
TELECOM- y cias de telecomunicciones mpales.     servicio prestado a entidades puiblicas.
- Trasladar las funciones de regulaci6n, planeacion y   - Garantizar los recuros para cofinanciar
control del sector, de TELECOM al Ministerio de   los estudios que requiere el
Comunicaciones.                                  cumplimiento de los compromisos de
- Reestrucutar TELECOM de manera que pueda         TELECOM.
competir en el nuevo marco sectorial.
Petmleo   ECOPETROL
Vias      FONDO
VIAL
Femwviano FERROVIAS -                                                     - Concepto en los pr6ximos 10 dias al
recibo de una solicitud de modificaci6n
presupuesta.
Concepto en los pr6ximos 15 dias al
recibo de una solicitud de aprobaci6n
de vigencias futuras.
Adecuscion HIMAT                                                          - Garantizar recursos que, via linea de
agicola                                                                    credito, financien pago de inversiones
por parte de los beneficiarios.
- Garantizar recursos que permitan Ilevar
a cabo planes de retiro voluntario.
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPENDIX C (i)
Prugnmna de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                                   Pig. 26
Cuadm 5
Compmuisos de las Entidades en los Planes de Desempeino
SECTOR             ENTTDAD        Reduccion  Venta v/o    Estabiccimiento   | Fspccificos a la Entidad
de planta  arrendimien  de etintabilidades
de          tode activos
personal
Viviendz Social   INURB_   
Mercadeo           DEMIA                                                       - Inversion en intraestructura de
Agrupecuario                                       /                             comeicializaci6n en zonas
.marginadas
Puertos            CO1ETOS                                  -Contabilidad      - Liquidaci6n de activos y personal.
para compra de    - 'I'raspasar al Fondo de Pasivo Social
cosechas             de COlPUERTOS, ia inforrnaci6n
tie activos v pasivos de la empresa,
asi cormo sus estados fmancieros.
etc
Sector Electrico    SECroR            /            /                                             /
'Telecomunicacio  TELEICOM            /                                                          /
nleWS
PetmlIeo           ECoPEwraoI.              .      /            
Vias               FOJI)O VIAL                                                                   /
_             .~~~_ _ __ _ _ __ _ _  __ _ _ _ ___   _                     __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ferviaio FERROVIAS                                         - Cumplir con programaci6n fiscia
______    _________-  'I           -!   establecida para recuperacion de las
l                      |  ss~~~~~~~~~ias fe&rreas.
Adecuaci6n      -   1
ag ncola
L  _ - _ _________  -=_- ________      _______  I _ ___ __ _ _- -                   ___1
Mayo 31 de 1995



APPLNDIX C ki)
Progmnma de Refonma del Sector P fblico                                                                           Psg. 27
Cuadw 6
Cumplimniento de la Condicionalidad y nsultados del Desamollo del Sector Privado
ISF)CrOR        ENTIDAD               Cumplimiento de Ia Condicionalidrad                i            Resultados del Progmuma
Puertos      CuLPYUER iTOS   Con ia ley I de 1991. se decreto la liquidacion            - La liquidacion abareo 7894 trabajadores y tuvo un
E m p r e s a   COLPUER TOS (desarrollada mediante un PLAN DE                costo de $75 mil millones de 1993. Su tinaliz,acion
P ue rto s de   DESEMPENO) , sc distribuveron c inderw.ndizaron las          tuvo que ser torzada con la firma de un PLAN DE
Colombia        funciones que 1levaba a cabo: la funci6n de planeaLian V     DESEMPENO con las directivas de la entidad.
regulaci6n del sector. se delego a la recier creada          debido a las dificultades ucpe hubo con el sindicato.
Superintendencto General de Puertos. la de admincstraci6n   - Se redujeron las tanfas en 52%.
de la infracstnrc,ura portuaria a las Sociedades Portuanas    - Se incremrnt6 la productividad e* cerca del 60o
Regionaies (entilades de caracter mixto) y la de operacion   - Se redujo el tiempo de permanencia de los buques
en los puertos se entrego a operacdores pnvados             en puenros de 6 a 3 dias.
Viviencla   INUJRBE         -La lev 3 de 1991 Jiquido ei mronopoiio dcl ICT v en su      - La conversion de ICT  a INUJRBE, redujo tx)ctos
Social                        lugar creo el rNI 'Rii- .. restringi6ndolo a administra' los  dc fiiric[onarnienro (de 3000( a 60t) empleadosi v
subs:dios directwc de ovivenda v a promnovei el desarrollo  pemlitio aumne-ntar propoicion dt- recursos Ciscas a
de proyectos de r ,vienda social.                           los Ieneficianos
Se climino el esquema de iversiones (oriosas del Seclor    - Se tnplico el promedio anual de solucuones de
financicro v se retinanciaron las deudas del IC I con el     vivienda de interes social otorgadas pot el ICT  ent
Sector Financieni, med-ante bonos negociales a I9 anos       ia ulunna decada
con tasa de rendiwieniva de 21o =nual. (la roesinscturacidn   - La insersi6n totai (publi..a Y pri'ada) entre 1'J91
SC seannang  median-e Lrlf PI.N' DE DESPEIPE.NO-)         j1994 en el sector, creco ei un 68n oc respecto ai
cer I  riod  antenor
_  .   . _   _                                         ~~~~I  -                           _           _ 
Tsransporte                 - La ley 49 de 1990  cliniino completamnente el imite       j- La reduct-ion de la proteccion que se le habia
Martlimo                      impucsto a trasatlanticos extrwiuJeros para remision kle .us  otorgado a la Manna Mercante nacional. se rellcjo
ingresos por fletes                                       i en ura disminucion significativa dc sus perdidas
- El Decreto 2136c de 199:. elimino lI sistema de cuotLts de  operacionales. constanles er ia ultima decadaI
reservas y io eeeplazu jxr un regimen dc entrada libre    C- rroma resuitado de las ieformas. el nuniero de
para todas las companias d& ernbarque. :;ujeto solo a un     companias operando en (olombia n esle se-tar se
tratarniento remiproco del pais de origen di' Ia naviera     increment6 de 45 a 200
Mercadeo   IDEMA-                                                                          El IDEMA. ahora .oispra y abastcec .onas
Agropecua  Instituto de       En 1991 la lcx   cijmino el moni'pohio dii TIMA   n a' marginalc:s -forde ' 1 comme ; lizacion io Cs
tio          Memadeo          imporLaci6ti de prnctpaltc products agrtcolws  en !992,    rentablepara   ciorpovado  pactadoen  LAN
Agncola         ni diantu decreta 2(t62 se l;mito su; opcracl;on a caso. de   I     ' ' b '       D
N- No bstnilt cstar el IDLMA sujceco Li so nue%o 1
tailas Li. el mercati., la reorgani7acim  aconde conu ztS
cuevas t'unc.ones ?ue mraucejada mcdianie unii PI    DE  ' esquema. a prestori de productores donicst.scos.
nuevL,s func,ones DESFuPEN e) mwie)ada mt   uit PIAN DE      lt*ustificadid  4Jnr bajos precios lnternac;onaleN ,
I  Pra pmmoc                                                  actividad alirrillera. Ioizaruit la pzoniuigtcti6r. de
I                    - ~~~~~~~Para promover la participaci6p. del -soLor privado. se  i
t                                                                 1 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a tev 101 a Iiises de 19;1' Ia cual ren cedio cn io
susittuvo c; sistenia de cuLtasLi de inpoviacion por un
sisrema arancciarlc lexibie.                           ~                              loi~aie~cnd~ a        Aestablecido antenor;ne.   II)!-aMtA
sistema arsrlceiano Ilexible.               ~~~~~para ampiiar sit mtnrver,^<ior en -............onas : 
agricultura comercial y para panicipar ,con a:pital
em empresas de comereiaizaci6n
=-       _ I             -                                                   .__k                                             . de  .=
!9t4yn 3 X de 1 995



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgmua de Refomna del Sector Publico                                                                Pig. 28
CuOro 7.1
INGRESOS POR PRIVATIZACIONES Y CONCESIONES
_- -
lsmm  im       im       ~       ~       i
GOBIERNO NACIONAL                                          1709A    444.9                 561.0   797.0   677.0
SW  Fd Cowb                                               32L           0
Box   derComb
EPSA
wmob   IV, V                                                                                        7 70
3e~~~rCcmtuiIoeaIanee                                          160.0      4~~~~~~~~t05.0  5501L
B  *-   Naon                                                                        24           IC".        200.0
SAn                                                       4                                        2000        40DO
Tcnas~dn                                                                                          570.0
Pi    B    l_ om I ulndb, Td   Sd     y am1)                            6.0             10.0        10.0        1010
CarC b_ dii Aa~pm~auN                                                   12.0           12Z.0        4010          12.0
24ua 31 do 21o
bvw  BMO (%1                                                                          ZLO          2L 
Lo" awad                                                                                          r a2
Cdnol  Sn Tablsim (an o~17
C_lce 6n T lMV  4n                                                     tO0.0O
CollW 6 Ampoitarb                                                       12.0             12O         12.0         12.0
Mayo 31 de l99S



APPENDIX C (i)
Pmgamna de Refonna del Sector Publico                                                                    Pig. 29
C..dv 7.2
INGRESOS POR PRIVATIZACIONES Y CONCESIONES
OTROS                                                            89.8       517.0              33.0        134.0         50.0
_WwUW do Fmmwf lnduo&a - I         -                            0.7       167.
mon 6fwrV  v. V.
MI. Fftopm                                                                 3o
ours                                                          067
G^TSA                                                                      0.4
IniW_                                                                      0.2
CoowlS 6uNeboakl deTurismo-Ctr                                 16.          11.3
Hkon                                                         16.0
ssetAuwf                                                                  113
.ECPC                                                                0          2. 0                          1340          SQLoI
Tqpels Cer*o y Sw                                                                                         2.0
prondge                                                       0.0                                       55.0
Soded5 d Taupodo de CU                                         0         220S  -t1
Soteded ECm                                                               6.                            5.0          2L00
T&mm (Guemy, Oa)
Ge Nelru                                                                                                  25
Fmdo Nacional del Cut 6                                         LO          46.              33.
BP-   C4dowo                                                  OA          42.              33
Oboe ACOeO
MNyo 31 de 1995






a( '~4a                  APPENDIX C (ii)
BA! '.      D1.UL
JUN. 1 1995
RECIBIDO
PROYZCTO REFORMA DEL SBCTOR PUBLICO
Proyscto COL/91/012
Consideraciones para el ICR
Mayo 31 de 1995
El Componente de Asistencia T6cnica derivado de los pr6staaos BIR?
3278-CO y BID 615-OC-CO se concibi6 inicialmente como un apoyo al
Gobierno Nacional para el cumplimiento de las condicionalidades
para el desembolso de los tramos, pactados en los respectivos
pr6stamos.
Dos factores explican los ajustes introducidos a este objetivo
inicial. En primer lugar, el rezago entre la operaci6n del
componente de Ajuste Sectorial y la ejecuci6n del Componente de
Asistencia Tecnica -debido a demoras en el contrato de
administraci6n de los recursos- trajo como consecuencia que en su
fase inicial la asistencia tecnica requerida para el cumplimiento
de algunas de las condicionalidades hubiera sido atendida a travis
de otros recursos. Por otra parte, la ejecuci6n del Proyecto
coincidi6 con el periodo inmediatamente posterior a la promulgaci6n
de la Constitucifn Politica de 1991 que exigia del Gobierno
Nacional grandes esfuerzos para promover su desarrollo legal asi
como la concomitante implantacion de las reformas en las entidades;
ello oblig6 al Gobierno a demandar una amplia asistencia t6cnica
para acompa5ar dicha reforma. Estos dos factores explican por qu6
a travis de las enmiendas introducidas a los prdstamos se hubiera
ampliado la cobertura de la asistencia t6cnica y se flexibilizara
su destinaci6n sectorial manteniendo siempre la finalidad de
mejorar la productividad de los recursos del sector pfiblico y la
racionalizaci6n del rol del Estado en la economia.
Lo anterior trajo como consecuencia que el Proyecto se convirtiera
en un fondo de recursos que atendi6 las deimandas de asistencia
t6cnica de las entidades en el marco de la reforma del sector
pQblico que el Gobierno se habIa propuesto.
Los resultadoa a la fecha de cierre se pueden sintetizar de la
siguiente manera:
- Se ejecut6 el 100l de los recursos asignados inicialmente en
los prestamos (BIRF US$ $4.0 millones y BID US$5.0 millones)
y DonaciOn Japonesa (Y$140.0 millones) asi como la totalidad



,> g/  /rg X X                 APPENDIX C(ii)
de los recursos adicionados (BIRF US$3.0 millones y
rendimientos Donaci6n AID Us$150.626).
- La asistencia tAcnica cubri6 un amplio mapa sectorial e
institucional. El sector que tuvo mayor financiacion fue el
el6ctrico -33%-, agropecuario -11%-, transporte -9%-, y
financiero -4%-; se dio asistencia t6cnica a 35 entidades a
travEs   de   287   contratos   los  cuales   se   terminaron
satisfactoriamente, excepto uno. La financiaci6n se dirigi6
principalmente a la contrataci6n de consultorias 82%,
adquisici6f  de equipos 13%, capacitaci6n 2%, y administraciof
de recursos 3%.
- Se conform6 un modelo de gesti6n y de coordinaci6n de
recursos   nuevo   en  Colombia   que   atendi6   tanto   los
requerimientos de los dos bancos BID y BIRF, como los del PNUD
como   administrador   de   los  recursos   y   el   car&cter
multisectorial de la asistencia t6cnica jalonada por la
demanda.
- El Proyecto coadyuv6 a que el proceso de reforma del sector
ptlblico hubiera estado apoyado por una oportuna y calificada
asistencia tecnica; la medida de la contribucl6n de estas
asesorias a la transformaci6n de los sectores y las entidades
es actualmente materia de evaluaci6n.
En este contexto se pueden identificar los factores que
determinaron el logro de estos resultados:
- La asistencia de los bancos, BIRF y BID, al Componente de
Asistencia Tecnica fue permanente y valiosa para el Gobierno
en especial para garantizar la calidad de las consultorias asi
como para apoyar la adecuada puesta en marcha de procesos
nuevos para Colombia especialmente el de privatizaci6n.
- El Gobierno Nacional logr6 a trav6s del Departamento
Nacional de Planeacion y del Ministerio de Hacienda
identificar   y  promover   las   demandas   institucionales
prioritarias y apoyar la financiacion de la asistencia t6cnica
requerida. Con ello el Gobierno fortaleci6 su capacidad en el
logro de los objetivos que tenla planteados en el marco de la
reforma del sector puiblico: concentrar las funciones del
Estado; dar paso a un proceso de privatizaci6n; apoyar el
proceso de descentralizacifn y fortalecer la transparencia y
la eficiencia en el manejo de los recursos publicos.
- El PNUD como organismo administrador de los recursos logr6
en conjunto con el Gobierno un proceso de aprendizaje para
manejo de los cr6ditos de la banca multilateral el cual dio
resultados satisfactorios con el aval de credibilidad y



APPENDIX C (ii)
transparencia quo este organismo internacional brind6 al
Gobierno nacional.
De  esta   experiencia   se  puede   extractar   las   siguientes
consideraciones:
- El Proyecto logr6 conformar un modelo de gesti6n y de
coordinaci6n con el concurso del BID, BIRF, PNUD y Gobierno
Nacional, que mostr6 resultados positivos a pesar de los
riesgos para lograr una ejecuci6n eficiente en tipo de
asistencia tecnica jalonada por la demanda de las entidades.
- Para el Gobierno Nacional ha sido muy fitil este tipo de
proyectos que tienen cierta amplitud y flexibilidad para
financiar asistencia tecnica ya que le permite atender con
oportunidad  las  demandas  que  van  generando  los  cambios
normativos y ademas fortalecer su propia capacidad para
seleccionar las prioridades dentro de un proceso de cambio
institucional.
- La medida en qua la asistencia tecnica contribuye a las
decisiones de  reforma no es homog6nea ni depends s6lo de la
capacidad del proyecto de ejecutar los recursos o de la
calidad tecnica de las asesorias sino que varia de acuerdo a
las caracteristicas del sector, la capacidad de incorporacifn
de cambio por parte de la entidad, de las bases legales qua
sustenten estas reformas y del interes politico para Ilevarlas
a cabo.









.- :    -,                       | j;, -T:                                                                                                                                          .:    C,
I      -       !   :, ..-%                 .          i.  ~!         i



