Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2 37-G
Report No. P-5313-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$304 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
November 26, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As at April 1, 1990)
Currency Unit  =  Colombian Peso (Col$)
USS 1 - 468.00 ColS
Col$ 1 = .00213
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ALCALIS              -         Alcalis de Colombia, S.A.
BCH                  -         Banco Central Hipotecario
BR                   -         Banco de la Republica
BVC                  -         Bonos de Valor Constante
COLPUERTOS           -         Puertos de Colombia
CONFIS               -         Consejo Superior de Politica Fiscal
CORELCA              -         Corporacion Electrica del Atlantico
cVC                  -         Corporacion Regional del Valle del Chuca
DNP                  -         Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
ECOPETROL            -         Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
EMP                  -         Economic Modernization Program
FEN                  -         Financiera Electrica Nacional
FERROVIAS            -         Empresa Colombiana de Vias Ferreas
FMG                  -         Flota Mercante Grancolombiana
HIMAT                -         Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia,
metereologia, y Adecuacion de Tierras
ICA                  -         International Coffee Agreement
ICBF                 -         Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
ICEL                 -         Instituto Colombiano de Electrificacion
ICT                  -         Instituto de Credito Territorial
IDB                  -         Interamerican Development Bank
IDEMA                -         Instituto de Mercadeo Agricola
IFC                  -         International Finance Corporation
IFI                  -         Instituto de Fomento Industrial
IMF                  -         International Monetary Fund
ISA                  -         Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
ISS                  -         Instituto de Seguridad Social
NFPE                 -         Non-financial Public Enterprise Sector
NGOs                 -         Non-Governmental Organizations
PAPELCOL             -         Papeles de Colombia, S.A.
PPES                 -         Performance Planning and Evaluation System
PROEXPO              -         Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones
SENA                 -         Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SOFASA               -         Sociadad Fabricante de Autoneviles, S.A.
STF                  -         Sociedad Colombiana de Transporte Ferroviario
TAP                  -         Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan
TELECOM              -         Empresa Colombiana de Telecomunicaciones
TPED                 -         Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan



CoOwMIA                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENT1
Paae No.-
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................*.....**   (i)
FART Is       TIHE ECONOMY      1..............
A:  Background ...........  1
B.  Recent Developments. . . ..                                         3
C.    Medium-term Economic Modernization Program.                       3
D.    Bank Support for the Economic Modernization Program               9
PART II:      PUBLIC SECTOR IN COLOMBIA: STRUCTURE PERFORMANCE AND              11
RECENT DEVELOPNENTS
A.  The Public Sector in Colombia.                                       11
- Size and Composition   .                  .11
B.    Performance of the Decentralized Public Sector                    12
-  Size, Composition and Financial Performance.                  12
- Economic Performance   .                  .14
* Inadequate Public Sector Management Policies
and Structures .14
* Public Sector Monopolies .14
* Inefficiencies in the Budgeting and
Programming of Public Resources.                           16
C.    Recent Developments in Public Sector Reform            . .        is
PART III:    TIE PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN ........................   19
A.    Objectives of the Proposed operation    .            .19
P.    Main Components of the Proposed Operation   ...                   20
-  Public Sector Management Modernization   ...                  20
*  Performance Planning and Evaluation System                 20
* Improvement of Policy and Institutional
Environment for the Management of
DPS Operations             ...23
* Extension of PPES to Municipally-Owned Entities
Benefitting from External Credit   .          .24
- Privatization.                             .         .    25
- Private Sector Development             ...27
* Railways    ...27
* Ports..                                                     29
* Shipping    ...31
* Low-income Housir;               .        ..32
* Agricultural Marketing             ...33
C.    Loan History   ..                      ....................*   33
D.    Loan Amount and Tranchir .                                        34
E. Loan Conditions                   . . .34
F.    Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing   .            .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



G.    Monitoring and Reporting ......... ..................   38
H.    Benefits and Risks .    ..... .......................   38
PART IV.    BAINK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN COLOMBIA .......  4t
-  Lending Operations and Economic Sector Work ........  40
-  Bank Assistance Strategy ...... . *.................  41
-  Risk Analysis ................*. ..    .................*  43
PART V.     COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF ...... .....  ....... ........ .  43
PART VI.    RECOMNENDATION ..*................* ..............   44
ANNEXES:5
Table 1     Colombia: Medium-Term Balance of Payments - Base Case
Table 2     Colombia: Medium-Term Balance of Payments - High Case
Annex 1     Public Sector Contribution to Gross Domestic Product
19981-19986
Annex 2     Publi', Sector Contribution to Final Demand, 1981-1986
Annex 3     Share of Public Sector Wages in Total Salary Earnings
and Participation in Total Public Sector Wages
Annex 4     Public Sector Contribution to Gross Fixed Capital
Formation, 1981-1986
Annex 5     Public Sector Production by Ecnomic Activity, 1981-1986
Annex 6     Composition of Public Sector in Colombia by Type of
Entities and Number
Annex 7-A   Consolidated Decentralized Sector Expenditure and Revenue,
By Subsector, 1988
Annex 7-B   Consolidated Total of Local Enterprises
Annex 7-C   Public Sectgor Deficit
Annex 8     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 9     Import and Export Cargo
Annex 10    Import and Export Cargo by COLPUERTOS and Private Docks
Annex 11    Share of Colombian Shipping Lines in Total Maritime
for Transport by Type of Cargo and Average Percentage
1980-1985 Period
Annex 12    IFI's 1989-1990 Privatization Program
Annex 13    Technical Assistance Component
Annex 14    Policy Matrix
Annex 15    Status of Bank Operations



PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
Loan and Proiect Summary
Boarrowers        Republic of Colombia
Amount:           US$304.0 million equivalent.
Torwsz:           17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Loan and Proaram  The proposed loan would support a program of reform in the
Descrigtion:      sector aimed at achieving two basic objectives: (i) improving
productivity in the use of public sector assets through the
establishment of a performance planning and evaluation system
to modernize public sector management and the privatization
of public assets whose continued holding ry the public sector
is no longer in line with the Government's priorities; and (ii)
increasing efficiency in resource allocation and use by
eliminating public or quasi-public monopolies in critical
economic sectors and their replacement Dy an incentive
structure promoting freedom of entry and a competitive sector
environment. In addition, the loan will finance a technical
assistance program to prepare and implement the proposed
reforms.
Benefits and      The proposed reforms are expected to result in significant
Risk:             increases in the productivity in resource use by the public
sector leading ultimately to improvements in the public
sector's fiscal performance, a basic condition for the
successful implemen :ion of the Government's Economic
Modernization Program. The proposed elimination of entry and
competition constraints in sectors which up to now, have been
dominated by the public sector will increase efficiency in
the allocation and use of resources and improve the economy's
ability to adjust to an open and competitive environment. The
main risks are related to short-term social effects derived
from the need to lay-off personnel from public entities that
present gross overstaffing and the possibility that the
Government would not be able to put together the support
required--at the political level and from the relevant interest
groups--to complete the reforms proposed in a timely and
successful manner.



(ii)
Istimated
Disbursements     The policy-based component of the loan will be disbursed in
three equal tranches of US$100 million each. Disbursement of
the first tranche will be made at the time of loan
effectiveness.  The second and third tranche will be made
available upon meeting the respective conditions of tranche
release. It is estimated that the second and third tranche
release will take place by December 31, 1991 and December 31,
1992 respectively.   A US$4 million tschnical assistance
component will be available upon loan effectiveness. The loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1992.
Retroactive       Retroactive financing in an amount not excaeding US$60 million
Financina:        equivalent will be allowed on the basis of eligible import
expenditures incurred after September 1, 1990.
Rate of Return:   Not applcable.
Appraisal Report: Not applicable.
Schedule of
Disbursements:                 Bank    Fiscal    Years
1991     1992     1993
----- US$ Million 
Annual            101       102       101
Cumulative        101      203        304



COLOMBIA
PART I . TEE ECONOMY
A. Background
1.    The economy of Colombia has come a long way over the past four decades.
Economic growth has averaged about 4.5% per year and Colombia has been one of
the most stable economies in the developing world. This solid growth, combined
with a reduction in the population growth rate to 1.9% per year, have facilitated
substantial improvement in social conditions.   Life expectancy at birth now
stands at 64 years compared with 50 years in 1970; primary school enrollment was
over 80% in 1985 and the literacy rate about 80%. Nonetheless, poverty remains
a critical problem. Some 25% of the population has substandard nutrient intake
levels, more than a third lacks access to safe water, and child mortality remains
high. Disparities in the quality of life among regions are also significant and
contribute to strong regional pressures in many spheres of activity.
2.    Natural resources are plentiful.  These include agricultural land, water
for irrigation, energy resources (oil, natural gas, and coal), and mineral
resources such as  ickel, gold, and emeralds.   Colombia has a significant
locational advantp   because it is close to North America with coasts on both
the Pacific and .   ntic Oceans.  Mountainous terrain, however, makes internal
transportation c.  ly and slows down physical and social integration.   Rich
physical resources, a literate and dependable workforce, a robust private sector,
competent macroec -omic management, and political stability are major factors
explaining Colombia's good record of economic development and social improvements
over the last 30 years.
3.    World coffee price cycles and attendant shifts in economic policies
demarcate the development episodes of the last two decades. Four such episodes
can be distinguished: 1967-75, 1975-80, 1980-83, and after 1983. The 1967-75
period witnessed the pursuit of prudent economic policies. GDP growth averaged
6.3% p.a. During 1975-80, a coffee boom took place. Because the Government was
not successful in sterilizing coffee export earnings, inflation rose and the real
exchange rate appreciated. As a result, growth of non-traditional exports slowed
considerably, and economic growth slowed to 5% p.a.   After the coffee boom
subsided in the early 1980s, public sector deficits rose sharply. Since the
deficit was monetized, it brought high inflation. Exports declined as a result
of continued appreciation in the real exchange rate and the fall in international
demand. The current account turned from a slight surplus in 1980 to a deficit
of 10.8% of GDP in 1983.   In spite of the progressive tightening of import
restrictions, international reserves fell sharply by the end of 1984. During
1980-83, GDP growth averaged only 1.6% p.a.
4.    In late 1984 the Government introduced an economic adjustment program
designed to achieve stabilization with growth. Devaluation of the nominal
exchange rate was sharply accelerated.   The Government deficit was reduced
through both tax increases and expenditure reductions.   Import restrictions,
imposed during the previous period, were rolled back. Public sector investment
was streamlined. Colombia was able, because of this convincing policy effort,
to secure renewed support from the international financial community. The World



Bank supported the program with two policy-based loans in 1985 and 1986. A
"Jumbo" US$1 billion loan package was negotiated with the commercial banks in
1986.
5.    The economic adjustment program was quite successful. By 1986, the current
account, helped by higher coffee prices and a rapid expansion of petroleum and
coal exports, turned into surplus for the first time in several years. Fiscal
performance also improved substantially: the fiscal deficit was reduced from 3.5%
of GDP in 1985 to 0.3% of GDP. Non-traditional exports and private investment
grew rapidly. As a result, the rate of GDP growth recovered to 5.8% in 1986.
The Government repaid some short-term external debt and built up reserves. The
Government also launched a major tax reform program with a view to improving tax
collections and thus keep reducing the bud-t deficit.
6.    The economic adjustment program was maintained by the Barco administration
which took office in August 1986. For 1987, the rate of GDP growth was 5.3%,
despite a sharp decline in coffee prices. The effect of the drop in world coffee
prices on the balance of iayments was significantly offset by a large increase
in private transfers and by an increase in non-coffee exports, particularly
petroleum and coal. The current account had a small deficit of 0.1% of GDP.
However, the fiscal balance deteriorated to register a deficit of 1.8% of GDP,
despite the strengthening of Central Administration revenues as a result of the
tax reform. Unemployment declined to 10.1% in December (from 14-15% in 1985).
After difficult negotiations the Government succeeded in obtaining a quasi-
voluntary US$1 billion "Concorde" loan from the commercial banks.
7.    While  the  1984  economic  adjustment  program  restored  macroeconomic
stability, external balance, and economic growth by 1987, inflation started to
accelerate from the end of 1985. By the summer of 1988, the rate of inflation
(based on the consumer price index) rose to 30.3% from the 18.9% recorded in
1986.  The step-up in the rate of inflation resulted from a combination of
several factors: notably the drought and reduced agricultural protection that
raised food prices, the emergence of capacity bottlenecks associated with strong
economic growth, and high credit expansion in 1986-87. The authorities responded
by reducing credit expansion and by increasing permitted agricultural imports.
As inflation rose, interest rates followed.  Under strong pressure from the
private sector, the authorities put controls on interest rates and adopted
measures to inject more liquidity into the economy at the end of August, 1988.
Interest rate controls were removed in January 1989. Subsequently, interest
rates rose slightly above the previously controlled levels.
8.    Because of the earlier tight liquidity, more restrictive quotas on coffee
exports, and guerrilla attacks on fuel oLl pipelines, the economy slowed down
considerably in 1988, growing at only 3.7% while inflation accelerated to 28.1%
from 23.3% in 1987. However, non-traditional exports continued to perform well
and absorbed some of the negative impact on the balance of payments of lower oil
prices and guerrilla attacks on the oil pipelines. The current account deficit
rose to 1.0% of GDP while the public sector deficit also rose slightly to 2.0%
of GDP.



-3-
S. Recent Develooments
9.    The signs of weakness in the economy continued intoa 1989, with further
deceleration of growth in domestic demand. Activity in industry, commerce and
construction became increasingly sluggish, with agriculture constituting the main
growth area in the economy, on account of good weather and stimulative policy
measures.   Two developments which occurred in mid-1989 further darkened
Colombia's economic outlook.  First,  the demise of the International Coffee
Agreement (ICA) in July, which reduced by half the price of coffee in the
international markets, sharply reduced export earnings from Colombia's main
export industry.  Second,  the assassination of presidential candidate Luis
Carlos Galan by drug traffickers in August triggered a generalized conflict
between the drug traffickers and the Government with adverse effects in terms
of the investment climate, increased fiscal pressures derived from the security
effort, and reduced traffic related revenue. The economic authorities reacted
quickly to ameliorate the negative impact of this "coffee-drug" shock with a
tighter credit policy, investment cuts and reductions in subsidies.   These
measures helped reduce the overall nonfinancial public sector deficit to 2.1%
of GDP in 19s9 and inflation from its high of 28.1% in 1988 to about 26%.
However, economic growth arther decelerated to around 3.2% of GDP. Despite
continued weakness in the real sector, urban unemployment fell to below 10% in
recent months as a result of a decline in the labor participation rate.
10.   The effects of the "coffee-drug" shock have been expected to materialize
mainly in 1990 and after. The Government, therefore, adopted additional economic
measures to further adjust to the shock. The main elements of the program that
has been applied during 1990 are: (i) further devaluation of about 8% in the real
exchange rate by end-1990, reflecting a decision to devalue the real rate beyond
the December 1986 benchmark used so far; and (ii) enhanced fiscal austerity
through a variety of measures, viz. eliminating major subsidies in the coffee
sector and enforcing a decline in the real domestic coffee price, holding down
public sector wage increases to below expected inflation for 1990, postponing
public sector investments in selected areas, and raising gasoline prices aimed
at increasing their domestic level in real terms.
C.    Medium-Term Economic Modernization Prograri
11.   The main objective of the measures undertaken in the last quarter of 1989
was to stabilize the economy in the aftermath of the coffee-drug shock. However,
it was recognized that these measures alone would be insufficient to raise longer
term productivity and growth in the Colombian economy. During the last two
decades, the economy has experienced low and frequently negative productivity
growth in most sectors, and without improvements in the efficiency of resource
use, future economic growth will be constrained by the rate of growth of
productive factors.   To address these longer term structural problems, the
Colombian authorities announced to the Bank in November 1989 their intention to
define a medium-term program -- the Economic Modernization Program (EMP) -- to
go beyond stabilizati-n and accelerate growth through improved efficiency of
resource allocation at. use.  The EMP was approved by the National Social and
Economic Policy Counci.  (CONPES), the highest policy-making body in Colombia (in
February 1990).



12.   The EMP proposed a set of structural reforms in the public, trade, and
financial sectors, as well as macroeconomic policies designed to increase
productivity, raise economic growth to about 5S annually, slow inflation to
below 20% per year, and reduce the incidence of poverty. The centerpiece of the
EMP is a trade reform program aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the
tradeable  good3  sector.    Complementary  financial  sector  and  industrial
restructuring policies are designed to improve resource mobilization and ensure
an adequate supply response of the productive sectors. Public sector reforms,
to be supported by the proposed operation, would improve productivity of public
sector assets and efficiency in resource use and allocation in areas dominated
by the public sector.   These structural  reforms would be underpinned by
stabilization measures in fiscal and exchange rate policies to maintain internal
and external balan'e.
13.   The Gaviria administration has reaffirmed the Government's commitment to
the objectives of the EMP, but has announced its intention to implement reforms
more aggressively with the objective of achieving 6-7% GDP growth and levels of
inflation below 20% per year by 1994. Economic reforms have been proposed or
undertaken to increase fiscal discipline, to accelerate trade policy reform, to
implement a program of agricultural trade liberalization and agricultural policy
reform, to reform the financial sector and to accelerate public sector reform.
14.   Macroeconomic oolicies.  The medium-term macroeconomic policy framework
for the EMP is based on the continued pursuit of prudent macroeconomic policies
and the maintenance of an adequate level of external competitiveness through the
implementation of an active exchange rate policy. In addition to the beneficial
effects on growth and prices, the implementation of these policies over the
medium term is expected to produce a decline in the external current account
-ficit and the maintenance of an adequate level of international reserves, thus
c.,ntributing to the achievement of a viable external payments situation. The
macroeconomic framework envisages a gradual reduction of the nonfinancial public
sector deficit to 2% of GDP or less in 1991 and a further decline to less than
1% of GDP in 1992.  The fiscal deficit would improve on the basis of strict
control of current expenditure, improvements in tax administration, higher
revenue from international trade taxes stemming mainly from the replacement of
quantitative import restrictions by tariffs, and adjustments in selected p'blic
sector prices. The public sector investment program will emphasize investments
in human and physical infrastructure in order to raise productivity and foster
investment by the private sector.  The reduction in the fiscal deficit will
enable the nonfinancial public sector to eliminate its need for credit from the
domestic financial system, so that expansion of financial system credit to the
private sector will be in line with the growth of nominal GDP during this period.
The Government of Colombia has recently communicated to the Bank a Medium-term
Macroeconomic Framework describing the macroeconomic objectives and targets the
Government will pursue in the implementation of the EMP. The table below sets
forth the targets included in the framework which will serve as the basis for
the Bank 's assessment of macroeconomic performance.



-5-
COLOMBIA
Medium-Tenn Macroeconomic Framework
Specific Targets
1990            1991           1992
Fiscal deficit (as % of GDP)  2.3             2 ores         les than I
Extenal curreat Account
deficit                      2%              1%             lais than
1%
International Reserves
(as monts of imports of
goods and scrvices)           5               5              S
Expansion of Financial Credit
- to the Public Sector
(as % of GDP)                  I              0              0
- to the Private Sector      slightly       same as nominal    me as nominal
above          GDP             GDP
nominal GDP
Expansion of Net Donestic     15% of the
Assets of Banco de la        currency issue
Republica                    at the beginning
Of 1990
Extenal Debt (as % of GDP)    40%                            35% (1994)
Debt Setvice Ratio             more than 45%                 33% (1994)
15.   Trade 2olicv reform. The Government has concluded that the main instrument
to increase competition and efficiency in the productive sectors will be an
opening of the economy to external competition and a reduction in the anti-
export bias of the trade regime. Tho EMP set out a five-year program of trade
reform consisting of two phases.   The first phase seeks elimination of
quantitative import restrictions (except those required for health and safety
reasons) over an eighteen month period, replacing them with equivalent tariff
protection. The second phase, to occur over a three and one-half year period,
would reduce the levels and dispersion of tariff protection. Implementation of



- 6 -
the first phase began with the transfer of 861 positions to the free list in
February 1990, followed by another 585 in July.
16.   The Gaviria administration announced an acceleration of the trade reform
with the transfer of an additional 465 positions in September. As a result, the
proportion of freely importable items increased from 39% of total tariff
positions before the reforms were initiated to 76% currently.    In the
manufacturing sector, the coverage of QRs fell from 82% of domestic production
before the reforms to 44% currently. The new Government intends to complete the
transfer of positions from the prior license to the free list, by July 1991, thus
completing phase one of the program six months ahead of schedule. It has already
initiated the second phase of the program to reduce and rationalize tariff
protection.  The objective is to arrive at an average tariff of 20% to 25%,
including the surcharge. The number of tariff rates was reduced from 23 to 13;
the maximum tariff fell from 200% to 100% (automobiles); and the average tariff
reduced from 26.6% to 22.1%. In addition, the tariff surcharge was reduced from
18% to 13%. In the area of export promotion, the Government intends to reduce
indirect tax rebates to exporters (CERTs) to eliminate overcompensation for
indirect taxes actually paid, and to restructure PROEXPO to become an export-
import bank.
17.   Agriculture Policy Reforms.  The Government has announced its intention
to eliminate IDEMA's monopoly over the import of agricultural products by
increasing the participation of the private sector and to convert QRs on
agricultural products to a variable tariff  scheme.    Internal prices of
agricultural products and raw materials will be gradually liberalized; the use
of price supports will be minimized to allow market prices to guide production
and consumption decisions. Support prices will cease to be an incentive to raise
domestic production of certain agricultural commodities, but rather will be used
on an exceptional basis to provide a minimum level of income to producers of
competitive products.    IDEMA's role will be restricted to well-targeted
interventions in marginal areas and to poor farmer:s.  *.gricultural credit
subsidies will be reduced, in line with the Government's program of financial
policy reform. Any remaining subsidies will be carefully targeted (e.g. to small
farmers) and funded out of the fiscal budget.
18. Financial Sector Reform. The Government's program of structural reforms
in the financial sector is intended to lead to a sector characterized by greater
competition, a size capable of mobilizing domestic and external resources to
finance investments in the productive sectors, and a wide range of financial
instruments provided at market prices by private financial institutions,
including voluntary long term credit and capital market instruments.   The
Government will expand the scope for the use of market determined interest rates
within the financial system, phase out the policies of directed credit supported
by forced investments that currently segment financial markets, and improve the
regulatory framework in order to promote competition.
19.   To promote competition and contestability, the Government will allow free
entry of new financial institutions; simplify procedures governing liquidations,
mergers, and conversions; reduce and clarify the role of the public sector in
financial intermediation; encourage greater availability of market information;
and increase monitoring and control of noncompetitive behavior. Competition



policies will include the re-privatization of banks that fell under Government
control as a result of the 1982-85 financial crisis (to be supported under the
proposed operation). Reserve requirements will be reduced as far as the fiscal
deficit and monetary and external conditions permit. Forced investments will
be gradually eliminated by freezing the nominal stock at existing levels, and
in the future resources to finance directed credit will be mobilized from
domestic and international capital markets. The reform of the directed credit
system will be accelerated by gradually increasing rediscount rates to at least
the average deposit rate of the banking system (DTF) and by increasing interest
rat-e to final borrowers toward market levels and harmonizing terms across
sectors. By the end of the administration the Government intends (to the extent
that competitive conditions permit) to liberalize interest rates fully to final
borrowers, retaining rediscounts only for purposes of term transformation. In
a limited number of cases where the most effective way to achieve equity
objectives is through subsidized credit, these subsidies will be carefully
targeted and funded from the fiscal budget.
20.   Industrial restructurinc.  The Government will initiate an industrial
restructuring program in order to facilitate the supply response by the private
sector to the trade reform program. The program will assist private firms via
technical assistance and credit: (a) to renovate existing industrial production
capacity and build new capacity to reduce costs, increase product quality and
service, and change product mix toward goods in which Colombia has a dynamic
comparative advantage; and (b) to phase out capacity which is unlikely to produce
acceptable long run returns in an internationally competitive business
environment.   The program includes a set of regulatory and institutional
adjustments to increase domestic competition, increase the mobility of resources
(particularly labor) across sectors, among firms, and within individual firms,
and facilitate the acquisition of technology. Also to be included will be a
labor adjustment assistance program and technical assistance to restructuring
enterprises.
21.   Proiections of medium-term economic Performance. Macroeconomic projections
for the expected outcome of the medium term policy framework have been recently
updated by a joint IMF-Bank mission that visited Colombia from October 15 to
November 3, 1990.   According to these projections, the medium-term policy
framework is estimated to result in a recuperation of economic growth to about
5% per year (from present rates of about 3.5%) through increases in productivity,
savings and investment, while reducing inflation from the present high level of
about 30% to 22% in 1991 and 14% by 1994.
22.   The estimates of the current account balances reflect -- in addition to
recent changes in the external environment -- the effects of a serious
stabilization effort aimed at absorbing the adverse output and balance of payment
effects of a 50 percent drop of coffee prices in early 1989 and the deterioration
of the investment climate resulting from the Government's efforts against illicit
drug trade. As part of this effort, the peso was depreciated by 3.2 percent in
1989 and the current account deficit improved from 0.6% of GDP in 1988 to a small
surplus in 1989 (USS 100 million, or 0.2% of GDP). In 1990 the Government has
pursued an aggressive devaluation of the peso (real depreciation reached 6-8%
in the first half of 1990 and is projected to reach a devaluation of about 10%
in real terms for the year). This has contributed to a slower growth of imports



- 8 -
in 1990 and a better rate of growth of non-traditional exports, which, added to
the external developments in the oil industry and better coffee prices in 1990
(compared to late 1989), is leading to an improvement . the expected current
account balance to a slightly higher surplus of about US$ 340 million (0.7% of
GDP) by the end of the year.
23.   The net effects of higher oil prices on Colombia's current account balance
are expected to be modest due to constraints on crude output resulting from
shortages in oil transport facilities in the near term, to the increase in
royalty payments associated with a significant share of foreign ownership in the
oil industry, and modest increases in future output due to depletion of reserves.
It is estimated that each USS 1 increase in oil exports is offset by about 45
cents in royalty payments and about 13 cents of additional costs of imported
refined products, resulting in a net improvement in the current account balance
of about 41 cents. Projected volumes of crude oil exports increase modestly from
183,000 bbl/day in 1991 to 207,000 bbl/day in 1993, and fall back to 171,000
bbl/day in 1994 due to depletion of reserves (from about 13 production years in
1989 to an estimated 7 production years in 1995, unless exploration results
improve). The projections are based on crude oil prices of US$ 23.8/bbl in 1991
and US$ 18.5/bbl thereafter.
24.   Non-petroleum imports are expected to increase by about 15% in 1991 mainly
due to a recent decision of CONPES (Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y
Social) on October 29, 1990, to further accelerate the trade liberalization
program. Effective immediately, all remaining prior import license requirements
were eliminated, except for a few agricultural products, medicines and weapons.
In addition, the number of import tariff rate categories was reduced from 14 to
10, and it was announced that the program of tariff reduction would be
accelerated, decreasing the average tariff from 35% to 15% by 1993, instead of
1995 as programmed earlier.   The auction system and the associated foreign
exchange budget in practice last year for those products subject to prior import
license was also eliminated. As part of the adjustment process, and in addition
to a real effective devaluation of about 10% in 1990, the Governemnt envisages
to continue its policy of gradual adjustments in the real exchange rate. As a
result, the expected surplus of the current account balance of about US$ 340
million in 1990, will become a deficit of about USS 30 million and US$ 140
million in 1991 and 1992 respectively, and small surpluses in 1993 and 1994 (see
Table 1 in the Annex). The EMP calls for maintaining reserves at an average of
five months of imports of goods and services which has been considered as a safe
level to cushion the economy from the uncertainties derived from the accelerated
trade reform process initiated by the Gaviria administration and the high price
volatility of Colombia's main exports. Based on the projected growth of imports
and exports, and the levels of financing available (including the expected
commercial bank refinancing and the US$ 600 million in loans from the Bank and
IDB for the proposed operation) reserves would decline to about four months of
imports of goods and services by 1994.
25.   Although the projected increases in the prices of coffee and petroleum
products result in some improvement of the balance of trade in 1990, given the
high historical volatility of petroleum and coffee prices, these improvements
should be regarded as transitory. The authorities have therefore indicated that
any additional revenues associated with petroleur. prices higher than projected



- 9 -
will be saved. Since recent exploration has not produced positive results, the
Government has decided that revenues up to US$ 1.20/bbl above the Governments
projected prices (of USS 18.2/bbl in 1991 and US$ 19.0/bbl in 1992) will be
devoted to an exploration fund, and that any further price increases will be
kept as reserves in a special oil fund that will be maintained outside the
country to facilitate internal fiscal discipline and macroeconomic stability.
26.   Oil production and exports could be higher than projected if increased
exploration produces positive results, preventing oil reserves depletion.
Sensitivity tests were performed assuming higher volumes of crude exports
(236,000 bbl/day in 1992; 263,000 bbl/day in 1993; and 290,000 bbl/day in 1994;
compared to 198,000 bbl/day, 207,000 bbl/day, and 171,000 bbl/day respectively).
The results show a decrease in the current account deficits to USS 26 million
and US$ 10 million in 1991 and 1992, respectively, and an increase to a current
account surplus of US$ 244 million and USS 588 million in 1993 and 1994,
respectively (see Table 2 in the Annex). Given the projected increases in other
exports and in imports, and the expected external financing, reserves would still
decline, from about 5.4 months of imports of goods and services in 1990 to 4.4
months of imports of goods and services in 1994.
D.   Bank Sumoort for the Economic Modernization Program
27.   The Government has requested the Bank's assistance for the implementation
of the EMP through a policy based loan to support its public sector reform
program. This reform program has been identified as a critical element of the
EMP strategy. The proposed operation would be followed-up by investment loans
which will build upon and seek further implementation of the proposed reform
program, including financing investment requirements derived from reforms
implemented in the infrastructure sectors (i.e., railways, ports, highways), and
further implementation of the Government's strategies for the low-income housing,
industrial and financial sectors.
28.   The proposed policy based loan in an amount of $304 million to support its
public sector reform program is central to ensuring the viability of the
financing plan proposed for the implementation of the EMP and, thereby,
Colombia's balance of payments equilibrium in the medium-term.   The Bank's
support through the proposed operation will assist Colombia in financing the
projected current account deficit and in avoiding an excessive decline in reserve
levels (to no less than about 4.0 months of imports of goods and services by 1993
as shown in the table below). In addition, it will enhance the Government's
prospects of completing in a satisfactory manner a crucial step in its commercial
debt  strategy.    For  the  period  1991-94,  Colombia's  external  financing
requirements are expected to be met by a slight increase in multilateral
exposure, a moderate decrease in commercial banks' exposure and a slight increase
in bilaterals and suppliers credits. The following table describes Colombia's
financing requirements consistent with the macroeconomic framework described in
Table 1 in the Annex and the proposed contribution from the main groups of
creditors.



- 10 -
Colombia: Financing Plan, 1991-1993
(in U.S. millions)
1991     1992       1993      Average
Current Account Balance     - 27     -138       54         - 37
Available Fmancing: Net     -24        66       36         26
disbursement of Medium-and
Long-Term debt I/
IBRD                     - 67      - 7        63        - 4
IDB                      198       180       150        176
Bilateral                 16       23          8        1S
Supplies Credits          73       17        - 24       22
Commercial Banks         -192     -126       -140      -153
Other (incl. bonds)      - 52     - 21       - 21      -31
Other Capital Movements       2        0        -127      - 42
Increase in Reserves        - 49     - 72       - 37      - 53
Total Reserves (months of imports)  4.8  4.5    4.1        4.5
1/ Inluding the proposed Bank and IDB loans for a total of USS 600. milion. Annual average amortization projections are:
IBRD, US$441.4 million; IDB, US$ 161.6 million; Bilarerals, US$277.3 million; Suppliers Credits, US$176.3 million and
commercial banks, US$769 million.
29.   Colombia's debt strategy has been aimed at a phased return to voluntary
lending by avoiding debt restructuring and seeking semi-voluntary lending to
maintain commercial banks' exposure constant in nominal terms.  After three
difficult, but successful, refinancing operations concluded with commercial banks
since 1986, Colombia has been able to maintain commercial banks' exposure at
nearly  constant  nominal  levels  and  avoid debt  restructuring.    The  new
administration has decided to follow a longer term approach in its commercial
debt strategy by seeking to refinance debt maturing during the next four years,
rather than the two year period that was customary in previous refinancing
operations. Ths Government has recently reached agreement with the steering
committee representing creditor banks on a refinancing facility in the amount
of US$1.5 billion and the floating of bonds in the amount of US$200 million.
These amounts would represent the refinancing of about 90% of the repayments due
on commercial debt during the 1991-94 period. The final outcome of the operation
will be determined by the ability of the steering committee and the Government
to obtain broad participation from Colombia's creditor banks. In the past, the



- 11 -
cheap/free rider phenomenon has somewhat compromieed the lending targets that
have been agreed with the banks' steering committee. In the present operation
the reluctance of commercial banks to participate may become a aignificant
factor. The proposed refinancing operation will be the last before Colombia's
repayment obligations to commercial banks fall to a much lower level.   if
successful, this operation would represent a critical step towards the return
of Colombia to voluntary commercial lending. It is envisaged that the commercial
banks' decision to support Colombia's financing plan will be influenced, as in
the past, by the perceived readiness of the Bank--as Colombia's main individial
creditor--to maintain a burden-sharing largely in line with its current exposure
position.
30.   The proposed operation would result in a slower pace of reduction of Bank
exposure and, as a result of IDB's associated cofinancing, in a positive net
contribution of the multilateral institutions to Colombia's financing
requirements. In the absence of the proposed operation, an additional financing
gap of US$200 million would emerge and the net multilateral contribution to
Colombia's financing requirements would be negative.
31.   In addition, the proposed operation will assist the Government in financing
the costs associated with restructuring inefficient public entities. This will
imply mainly incremental fiscal transfers to finance staff reduction programs.
Staff redundancies have been a major factor contributing to low productivity in
the railways, ports and telecommunications companies and in the low-income
housing agency.  As part of the restructuring plans for these entities the
Government will include staff reduction programs. Due to the financial condition
of these entities, severance payments will have to be financed by the Government.
Preliminary estimates of labor related costs for the restructuring of these
companies exceed US$350 million.   The Government has already initiated the
process of liquidating the existing railways company. The total cash outlays
to meet severance payments for this company have been estimated in the order of
US$65 million for the period 1990-92. The cost of severance payments of the
ports company have been estimated to exceed US$100 million.   The resources
required to fund the pension benefits accrued by the port workers has been
estimated in an amount in excess of US$200 million.
PART II: PUBLIC SECTOR IN COLOMBIA: STRUCTURE, PERFORMANCE AND RECENT
DEVEIOPMENTS
The Public Sector in Colombia
32.   Sise and Composition.  During the period 1981-86, the public sector in
Colombia contributed about 20% of GDP and 18% of total final demand. The public
sector's share of GDP has been generally increasing during recent decades, as
reflected in the increase from 13.9% of GDP in 1970 to 21.5% in 1986.  The
sector's share of total wages in the economy is about 33%, and its contribution
to total fixed capital formation has been about 50%, over the period 1982-86.
The provision of health, education, and other social services continues to
represent the sector's main economic activity.  However, the share of these
activities in total public expenditure has declined significantly during the



- 12 -
period 1982-86, while the share of manufacturing has increased, mainly as a
result of petroleum production increases starting in 1986. (Annexes 1-5).
33.   Goods and services are provided through a widely dispersed network of
national, departmental, and municipal governments and public bodies, adding up
to a total of 1,892 entities (Annex 6). The basic administrative structure is
described below:
i)    The Public administration sector, composed of national, departmental, and
municipal governments totalling, 1,076 governmental institutions.  The
sector's main function is the provision of collective services and the
execution of public policy goals. Its financing is provided mainly through
mandatory contributions, such as taxes, charges, etc.
ii)   About 473 entities incorporated by national, departmental, or municipal
governments as iublic authorities ("establecimientos pfiblicos), operating
with legal and administrative autonomy. These are financed mainly through
transfers or mandatory contributions of their government sponsors.
iii)  The non-financial public enterprise  sector  (NFPE2,  composed of 273
companies with majority holdings of the public sector, which produce
marketable goods or services.   They are expected to finance their
operations mainly through internally-generated funds.  These companies
are incorporated and operate in accordance with private sector regulations.
They have traditionally had substantial autonomy from their respective
governmental authority.
iv)   The financial nublic sector is composed of 28 financial entities owned by
the Central Government, including the Central Bank, the state-owned
commercial banks and insurance companies, and some specialized financial
institutions, such as the industrial bank (IFI) and the housing banks (ICT
and BCH). There are in addition some 42 development finance institutions
at the departmental and municipal level.
34.   Despite the abundance of governmental bodies and public entities, over
90% of the 1,892 agencies mentioned above correspond to entities at the
departmental and municipal levels with very limited economic and fiscal
significance. In fact, over 90% of total expenditures of the decentralized public
sector (746 public authorities and NFPEs, representing about 12% of GDP and 50%
of total public sector expenditures) are concentrated in about 30 entities at
the national and municipal levels. The proposed operation will deal with issues
arising from the management by the Central Government of those public entities.
This limited group of public sector entities will be referred to as the
decentralized public sector (DPS).
Performance of the Decentralized Public Sector
35.   Size, composition and Financial Performance.  Based on figures issued by
the National Planning Department (DNP), which monitors DPS cash operations, the
DPS contributed about 12% of GDP, and about 60% of public savings and of public
sector fixed capital formation over the period 1985-88.



- 13 -
36.    The commercially-oriented public sect-r in Colombia shows substantial
differences from the pattern of development in other countries in the Region.
DPS operations are concentrated mainly in infrastructure. As reflected in Annex
7-A, the power and mines sector represent over 50% of total public sector revenue
generation and expenditures, with the communications, transport and agricultural
sectors also showing significant shares. A peculiarity of the public sector
structure in Colombia is the significant role played by municipal companies in
overall public sector operations. Central Government-owned enterprises are
predominant in the mines, transport and agricultural sectors. There is a mixed
participation of Central Government- and municipally-owned companies in the
power and communication sectors and total control of water supply operations by
municipal entities. The municipally owned companies showed a deteriorating
financial performance during the period 1984-89 (Annex 7-B) as a result mainly
of the financial difficulties faced by municipally-owned power companies and the
Medellin Metro. Poor performance of these companies created increased pressures
on the Central Government, which has met a substantial portion of their debt
service requirements.
37.   Despite DPS operating surpluses during the period 1985-88,  internal cash
generation did not keep pace with capital expenditures and debt servicing
requirements. As a result, the DPS has become increasingly dependent on debt
financing and inter governmental transfers, with the sole exception of ECOPETROL
that has consistently shown strong financial performance since 1986 as a result
of growing petroleum exports. During the years 1985-86, the DPS contributed over
50% of the consolidated public sector deficit, reducing its share to 40% in the
years 1987-88.  An analysis of the major economic sectors of DPS operations
(Annex 7-C) confirms the very low reliance on the sectors' capacity to generate
internal resources.
38.    For the period 1990-94, the DPS is expected to improve its fiscal
performance by 1.3 points of GDP, moving from a deficit of .95% of GDP in 1988
to a surplus of .55% of GDP by 1992. This will be the result of higher savings,
while maintaining expenditures under control. Indeed, current savings are
projected to increase from 2.64% of GDP in 1989 to 4.35% in 1994 as a result of
higher current revenues. Current expenditures will continue to be restrained and
capital expenditures will be reduced over the medium-term. This expected result
will be a consequence of the improved pricing and investment planning policies
pursued under the proposed operation. However, they do not take into account the
additional efficiency and financial performance gains expected from the
introduction of the performance planning and evaluation system which are
difficult to estimate at this time. Initial diagnoses carried out in the
preparation of the first round of performance plans show there is ample margin
for additional efficiency and financial performance gains derived from the
application of this system.
39.   In the case of Colombia, public sector involvement in the manufacturing
sector has been marginal, mainly through minority risk-capital operations of
the Institute for Industrial Development (IFI). IFI had by July 1988 an
investment portfolio consisting of minority participation in about 54
enterprises. IFI's investment exceeded 30% of total equity in only 20 of those
enterprises.  Since then, IFI has initiated an aggressive program of sale of



- 14 -
equity participations which will be supported under the proposed operation. The
only remaining majority-controlled operation of IFI is ALCALIS. The Government
maintains significant interests in two other operations (Monomeros Colombo
Venezolanos and Cerro Matoso) which are controlled and operated by the private
sector. The DNP figures do not reflect financial performance of IFI holdings.
40.   Economic Performance.   The inadequate productivity of public sector
resource use in Colombia constitutes a substantial contributor to the low
productivity growth of the Colombian economy. This is reflected in the financial
performance of decentralized entities and in the low productivity of capital use
in the public sector, which contributed an average 42% of fixed capital formation
during the period 1971-83. The Bank's latest Country Economic Memorandum
calculated that the incremental capital-output ratio for the period was 7.8 for
public capital compared with a rate of 2.9 for private capital. In the case of
the DPS, there are three main factors explaining the eector's low levels of
efficiency performance:
41.   Inadeouate Public Sector Manacement Policies and Structure.  The Central
Government has lacked effective instruments to control DPS operations and
investment decisions and to ensure DPS adherence to macroeconomic programming
and sectoral priorities.   The main linkage between the DPS and the Central
Government has been provided by the entities' boards of directors, headed by
the respective sector minister. In some cases, these boards were composed of
presidential appointees, with no reporting responsibility to the planning or
economic authorities, and, in other cases, of the main beneficiaries of the
entities' operations.
42.   Due to the technical weakness of sector planning in Colombia and the lack
of effective mechanisms for the Central Government to set objectives for the DPS
and to monitor their implementation, most DPS entities have been managed on an
ad hoc basis, with no defined strategic objectives. With some very limited
exceptions, DPS performance has been determined by bureaucratic and political
pressures, the demands posed by its personnel and to satisfy the requirements
of the interest groups benefitting from the entities' operation.
43.   Additionally, DPS management has been hampered by poorly focussed and
pervasive intervention by the Central Government in its operations. This has
seriously affected DPS entities long-term planning capability and operational
efficiency. Failure by the Central Government to define clear and permanent
policies on pricing of public sector goods and services, the appointment and
removal of senior managers based on political considerations, and Government's
active participation in day-to-day personnel, procurement and organizational
matters are examples of such undue interventioa. As a result, there have been
serious investment mistakes, a generalized lack of financial discipline,
increasing reliance on debt financing and Central Government transfers, and no
sense of clear corporate objectives and strategy.   These deficiencies are
reflected in the serious administrative, operational, and labor crises faced by
most entities in the DPS sector and the virtual abandonment of efficiency
standards as the basis for measuring managerial and corporate performance.
44.   The Existence of Public Sector Monopolies.  Despite the relatively mild
intervention of the State in the economy, the existence of some public sector



- 15 -
monopolies has led to very low resource use efficiency, limited economic growth
and the provision of low quality and high cost goods and services. The main
sectors affected by the monopoly role of the public sector are the following:
(i) Transport Sector. The Government has held a monopoly in ports and
railways and has heavily regulated the shipping sector, providing a virtual
monopoly to the Flota Mercante Grancolombiana (FMG), a quasi-public shipping
company. These monopolistic arrangements have led to an inefficient provision
of port, railways and shipping services to the productive sectors. Further, they
constitute a barrier to increased productivity and economic growth and may become
a major bottleneck to the Government's objective of opening the economy to
external competition. In the case of railways and ports the public monopoly has
led to sectors controlled by extremely inefficient public sector companies
plagued with excessive labor costs and intractable operational, financial, and
administrative problems. In the case of shipping, the Government's protection
of the quasi-public shipping line has drastically limited the provision of
services by potential competitors and led to the provision of very inefficient
and costly services. FMG has hai poor operational and financial performance over
the years, including continued reduction of its fleet capacity and increased
reliance on conference partners and leasing of liners to cope with its captive
demand. The public sector does not have a direct participation in the airline
and trucking sectors. Governmenc regulations in those sectors do not unduly
restrict entry or competition.
(ii) Power and water Supply Sectors. These two sectors, which represent
about 3.5% of GDP and 26% of total DPS expenditures, have been reserved for the
public sector. Power sector development has been largely based in the power
utilities owned by the municipalities in the main urban areas. The Central
Government participates in the sector through two companies (ICEL and COPELCA)
which, in addition to their generation and transmission operations, are the
holding companies for a network of power distribution entities operating in areas
not covered by the main municipal utilities and a company with a mix of Central
Government and regional capital (ISA) designed to develop large hydro resources
of national interest, provide interconnection services and rationalize investment
planning in the sector. Sector investment has been influenced strongly by
competition among the main municipal companies to develop the hydroelectric
potential of their respective regions. There have also been imbalances among the
generation, transmission and distribution shares of the sector's investment
programs and periodic financial crises derived from poor investment planning.
Tariff policies, have been traditionally set based on political considerations.
The Central Government has recently strengthened its planning and tariff setting
authority in the sector which is undergoing a serious financial crisis. The
financial crisis remains to be resolved by the new administration.   The
authorities have indicated their intent to address the financial and
institutional issues affecting the sector with the Bank's support. As a first
phase, the Government-owned power utilities i.e., ISA, ICEL and CORELCA, will
be subject to the performance planning and evaluation system supported under this
operation. The development of the water supply sector has followed a different
dynamic. While the main urban centers have been successful in developing their
water supply resources and financing their investments and operations, the
Central Government played an active role in financing the development and
operation of water companies in middle- and small-size cities. This scheme led



- 16 -
to gross inefficiencies in resource use, poor quality and low growth in water
supply services and chronic shortages of financing to meet even operational
needs in most companies. In 1987, as part of a wider process of decentralization,
the Government introduced a wide ranging reform of the sector's structure by
transferring to the municipal level the exclusive responsibilities for the
development and administration of water resources. The Bank is supporting this
process through a sector operation. At this point in time the Government has not
considered opening these two sectors to private sector participation.
(iii) Low-income Housing Sector. The Government assigned to the housing
institute (ICT) the virtual monopoly in providing low-income housing by creating
substantial disincentives for participation of the private sector through the
establishment of highly subsidized interest rates for low-income housing lending
and the provision to ICT of subsidized financing for its operations. The main
mechanism for financing low-income housing has been forced investments by the
financial sector in ICT bonds, paying rates substantially below market levels.
ICT bonds represent about 15% of total forced investments by the financial sector
and represented a stock of liabilities of about US$178 million as of December
1989. Net transfers from the financial sector to ICT to finance low-income
housing have at this time become totally insufficient to meet ICT's investment
targets, as a result of: (i) a mismatch between ICT's borrowing and onlending
terms that creates significant losses to ICT; (ii) ICT's high administrative and
operational costs, also financed through this mechanism; and (iii) ICT's
extremely  poor  portfolio  management.   In  addition,   ICT's  inefficient
administrative performance has led to the delivery of an ever decreasing number
of poor quality/high cost houses. The inability of ICT to provide low-income
housing in efficient terms and the crisis in the arrangements for sector
financing have led the Government to seek a substantial restructuring of the
sector.
(iv) Agricultural Marketing. The Government has in the past actively
intervened in the marketing of agricultural products through three basic
instruments: (a) an import quota regime for the main agricultural crops (rice,
sorghum, maize, wheat, barley, soybeans and sesame) managed by the Ministry of
Agriculture; (b) the monopoly on agricultural imports which is vested on the
Governments marketing agency, IDEMA; and (c) a support price mechanism which is
also operated by IDEMA.  Government intervention in this field has led to a
significant inefficiency in resource allocation in the sector, substantial fiscal
losses (mainly as a result of aggressive support price policies) and the
development of a contradictory and non-transparent incentive structure for
producers as the Government tries to conciliate the conflicting policy objectives
pursued through the micro and ad-hoc management of these instruments over time.
45.   Inefficiencies in the Budgeting and Programming of Public Resources.  Low
productivity in the public sector has also been a result of the inefficiencies
generated by the budget and investment programming regulations and procedures.
(i) The recently modified budget law had a limited coverage, including
only those public ensities that were dependent on Central Government transfers.
Revenue generating public entities had ample autonomy to define their expenditure
levels and investment programs. The Central Government had limited instruments
to ensure the adherence of these entities to its macroeconomic program and



- 17 -
investment priorities, e.g., approval of external borrowing and the tutelary role
played by sector ministries. As a result, the scope for inefficiencies in the
allocation and use of public resources was significant. This has been mainly
reflected in the overinvestment in the power sector, poor investment decisions
in the telecommunication company, the difficulties encountered by the Central
Government in mobilizing resources within the public sector and a persistent
trend to increase current expenditures (specially personnel costs) significantly
above inflation.
On the other hand, those entities that were subject to the budget process had
serious constraints in carrying out their operations in an efficient manner due
to the rigidities imposed by the budget process which prevented an adequate
coordination between the planning, budgeting and treasury functions. The initial
annual budget appropriations for these entities usually reflected only a portion
of the actual expenditures planned for the year. This was a result of a
requirement posed by the law that revenues derived from debt financing -the main
source of public investment financing- could only be incorporated in the budget
when the respective loan agreements had been signed. In order to comply with this
requirement, budget appropriations were supplemented during the course of the
year as the borrowing program materialized. Each supplemental budget required
Congressional approval and hence implied  a time consuming and politically
burdensome process. The uncertainty in the programming of public expenditures
was compounded by extremely cumbersome procedures for disbursing budget
appropriations.
(ii)  A second source of inefficiency has been the lack of clear and
uniform criteria in the evaluation of public sector projects and of an
institutional arrangement that would enable consistency in the screening of
project proposals in accordance with consistently applied economic criteria and
Sector specific technical guidelines. As a result, the quality of public
investments varies widely and political considerations, absorption capacity of
the sectors and regional pressures have played a major role in deciding the
content of the public investment program.
(iii) The rigidities and uncertainties prevailing in the programming and
budgeting of public resources under the old Budget Law led to an average
earmarking during the 1980s of about 9% of total Central Government revenues.
The main sources of earmarked revenues are constituted by the gasoline tax
utilized for the financing of transport infrastructure investments (representing
about 33.3% of total earmarked revenues), the tax on imports that benefits
PROEXPO, IFI and Caja Agraria (equivalent to 19% of total earmarked revenues)
and the payroll taxes benefitting ICBF, SENA and the compensation funds
(representing 23.8% of total earmarked revenues). Of these sources of earmarked
revenues, the tax on imports to finance mainly PROEXPO operations is the one that
raises the most serious questions in terms of benefit rationale, potential for
mismatch between the amounts assigned and expenditure requirements and the
priority the Government should assign to this form of public expenditure.



- 18 -
Recent Developments in Public Sector Reform
46.   The Government has made significant progress in dealing with some of the
issues described above. A description of the main reforms in public sector
management introduced by the Colombian Government in the recent years follows.
47.   The centerpiece of the public sector management reform effort is the New
Organic Law of the Budget, approved in December 1988.   This legislative
initiative set the stage for major improvements in public sector management.
(i)   The lack of effective linkages between macroeconomic and sector
programming has been dealt with through a significant expansion of budget
coverage to include all public entities (except for the National Coffee Fund
operations, covered under a separate agreement between the Government and the
Coffee Federation) and with the creation of the Consejo Superior de Politica
Fiscal (CONFIS). CONFIS is composed of the Ministry of Finance, the Chief of
DNP, the Economic Secretary to the Presidency and two sector ministries
designated by the President. CONFIS has been established as a high-level fiscal
policy-making body with wide range monitoring authority to ensure consistency
between fiscal and the macroeconomic program.   CONFIS will, carry out this
function through the establishment of multi-year financial plans for the public
sector, that will set aggregate financial targets (investment, current
expenditures and indebtedness ceilings and deficit/surplus targets) for each of
the DPS entities.   In addition, and based on the framework provided by the
financial plan, CONFIS will approve the annual budgets for all decentralized
public entities. The Government has initiated implementation of this aspect of
the Budget Law this year, by approving for the first time the FY90 financial plan
for the public sector and the budgets of the major DPS entities.
(ii) The weakness in public investment programming and monitoring has been
dealt with through the establishment of a nation-wide project evaluation and
monitoring unit in DNP. This unit will be responsible for screening all project
proposals in terms of their economic and technical viability and maintain a pool
of eligible projects which may be selected for financing under the public
investment program in accordance with the prevailing investment priorities. In
addition, the unit will monitor efficiency in project implementation by public
agencies. The Governnent is in the process of issuing the regulations, designing
the information systems and developing the economic evaluation manuals and
technical guidelines required to make the project unit operational.
(iii) The issue of rigidity in budget programming has been resc:.ved by
eliminating the requirement that loans should be contracted prior to their
inclusion in the budget. The new budget law allows the appropriation in the
budget of revenu2s the Government expects to secure during the course of the
fiscal year through borrowings. In addition, the procedure for disbursing budget
funds has been drastically streamlined.
(iv) The issue of rationalizing the Central Government's role in the
management of the DPS will be dealt with by establishing a performance plan and
evaluation system with selected public entities, pursuant to the authority
granted by the new Budget Law to CONFIS. This is an area the Government has
developed and will implement as part of the proposed operation.



- 19 -
48.   The Government has dealt with the issue of earmarking by taking actions
in two fronts:
(i)   Law 55 of 1985 enabled the planning and sector authorities to finance
with earmarked revenues programs which would extend the original objective
assigned to the earmarked taxes. The application of this law resulted in the
reassignment of 11.9% and 15.2% of total earmarking in the years 1986 and 1987.
While the amount reallocated appears significant, the impact in terms of
efficiency gains is not clear yet because the Government had to reallocate the
earmarked funds within certain predetermined categories related to the original
purpose of the earmarking; and
(ii) the Government has announced its intention to gradually dismantle
the tax on imports that mainly benefits PROEXPO and rationalize the public
sector's role in export promotion. It reduced the total tax from 18% to 16% of
CIF cost of imports last June and has announced it will further reduce it to 10%
of CIF cost in the coming months. The announced final objective under the trade
policy reform program is to bring average tariffs, including any applicable
import tax, to an average 25% of CIF cost. This objective will imply the
elimination of the import tax in the medium-term.
49.   In addition, the Government has made significant progress in developing
the institutional framework to ensure adequate coordination between macroeconomic
policies and sector programming in two key sectors:
(i)   In late 1988, the Government renegotiated with the Coffee Producers
Association the Coffee Fund management contract, introducing several covenants
aimed at increasing Government's role in the management of the Coffee Fund
resources. These cov.onants include Government approval of the Fund's annual
budget, rationalization of existing subsidies to coffee producers, the need to
ensure economic justification of investments, and a program of divestment. The
Government's increased zole has been critical in defining and implementing the
adjustment program aimed at containing and eventually eliminating the Coffee
FundIs operational deficit which resulted from the plunge in international coffee
prices.
(ii) In late 1989, the Government obtained passage by Congress of a law
establishing the National Energy Commission as a high level policy body in charge
of formulating investment and pricing policy for the energy sector.   This
Commission has recently become operational. It will fill a significant vacuum
in the policy decision-making process in the energy sector, while ensuring
adequate coordination between sector developments and macroeconomic objectives
and constraints.
PART III: THE PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Obiectives of the Progosed ooeration
50.   The proposed operation will support the Public Sector Reform Program.
The specific objectives pursued by this Program are improving productivity in
the use of public sector assets and improving efficiency in resource allocation



- 20 -
and use in sectors that have up to now been dominated by the public sector and
which are critical to an adequate supply response to the EMP.
51.   The objective of imlrovina productivity in the use of public sector assets
will be achieved by: (i) the establishment of a performance planning and
evaluation system for the public decentralized sector aimed at modernizing the
management of public sector entities; and (ii) the privatization of public assets
whose conti.:ued holding by the public sector is not justified on strategic or
policy grounds, specifically in the financial and industrial sector.
52.    The objective of imirovina efficiency in resource allocation and use will
be sought by the elimination of public or quasi-public monopolies in sectors
critical for EMP implementation and their replacement by an incentive structure
promoting freedom of entry and a competitive sector environment. In this line,
the Program is seeking implementation of substantial reforms in the railways,
ports, shipping, low-income housing and agricultural marketing sectors.
B.    Main ComPonents of Proposed Operation
Public Sector Manaaement Modernization
-     Performance Planning and Evaluation System
53.   As a central element of its strategy to improve the productivity of public
sector assets, the Government will seek the modernizaticn of the management
system for public sector entities through the establishment of a Performance
Planning and Evaluation System (PPES). The PPES, to be operated by CCNFIS, will
constitute the main institutional link between the Central Government and its
DPS entities. The PPES will, on the one hand, enable the Central Government to
define clear sector and corporate objectives for each of its DPS entities and
establish a transparent system for evaluating public sector managers' performance
and, on the other hand, provide the DPS entities greater autonomy in pursuing
their corporate objectives.
54.   The PPES will enable the Government to define, through a process of
negotiation among all parties involved (economic and sector authorities and the
entity's management), the entity's corporate objectives pursuant to the
Government's sector policies and macroeconomic objectives. Corporate objectives
will be set with the aim of moving public entities towards commercially oriented
performance and to market-driven discipline. Based on these objectives, the PPES
will define the entity's main operational targets and objectives for efficiency
improvement, translated into specific performance targets, and indicators for
evaluating management's performance in achieving its objectives and targets. The
Government has agreed to establish an explicit incentive system for public sector
managers which will provide rewards and sanctions linked to their performance
under the respective performance plan. Due to the current restrictions in the
legal framework which does not envisage the provision of economic incentives to
public sector managers, the initial incentive system will consist of honorary
distinctions for managers who perform in a satisfactory manner and for sanctions
ranging from admonitions to dismissal for managers who do not perform adequately.
In addition, the Government has undertaken to present to Congress in the coming



- 21 -
months legislation to enable the establishment of economic incentives for public
sector managers.
55.   The Letter of Development Policy has defined as the main objectives to be
pursued by the PPES the modernization of the management policies and practices
prevailing in the public sector with a view to moving public companies towards
commercially-oriented performance under a market-driven environment. Specific
objectives to be pursued under the PPES will be: (i) to maximize the economic
return on public sector assets through the establishment of prices for public
sector goods and services based on economic efficiency and the setting of
performance targets that ensure cost efficiency in the operations of public
entities. This should lead to a substantial improvement in the financial return
of public sector enterprises and increased financial self-sufficiency of public
entities; (ii) to limit the role of public sector participation in the provision
of goods and services to cases where there are qualified policy considerations
which would be made explicit in the definition of the strategic objectives of
the DPS entities and to cases of market failure; and (iii) to establish an
incentive structure in those sectors where the Government has decided to maintain
its presence that would promote competition between the publLc and private sector
in the provision of goods and services. The Government, in the course of
preparing this operation, has defined the methodological, organizational, and
legal aspects related to the establishment of the PPES and has made it
operational. The process of preparation and negotiation of performance plans
has been assigned to two senior advisors that receive technical and logistic
support from DNP.
56.   The performance plans content will be defined on a case by case basis,
given the prevailing conditions of the entity, and the consistency of its
operational and investment objectives with the Government's sector policies and
corporate objectives.   While in some cases performance plans will focus on
efficiency improvements to bring an entity's performance in line with already
sound sector policies, in other cases the performance plan exercise will become
the principal instrument to adjust public entities to major reforms in sector
policies.    In these  cases,  performance  plans would  lead to  substantial
restructuring of the entities. A key objective of the performance plans is the
definition and implementation of pricing and investment policies for each of the
selected entities. These will be consistent with the general policy objectives
set forth in the Letter of Development policy. Some additional aspects which are
expected to be systematically covered under the performance plans is the
improvement of managerial practices and structures and the strengthening of
accounting and commercial practices.
57.   The objectives pursued in the case of the four entities selected for the
first round of performance plans (ECOPETROL, TELECOM, ICT and HIMAT) vary based
on the specific issues affecting the respective sectors. These entities were
selected based on their fiscal significance (ECOPETROL and TELECOM are the major
contributors to public sector finances representing over 45% of DPS revenues in
the year 1989) and the efficiency problems they represent (in the case of ICT
a major sector restructuring; in the case of HIMAT, improvement of cost recovery
and divestment of operations).



- 22 -
58.   ECOPETROL's  corporate objectives  are generally consistent  with the
Government's sector priorities. The Government has defined as the main objectives
to be pursued with the performance plan for ECOPETROL during calendar year 1991:
(i) a definition of the macro economic framework under which the company will
operate, including a ceiling in total current and capital expenditures and
indebtedness and the company's transfers to the Central Government;  (ii) an
agreement on ECOPETROL's investment plan; and (iii) specific efficiency
improvement and profitability targets. As a medium term task, the performance
plan will include the carrying out of studies for the establishment of a cost
accounting system. The lack of a cost accounting system to assist management in
planning and controlling routine operations and in the formulation of major plans
and corporate policies have been identified as a major constraint to a sustained
effort of efficiency improvement in ECOPETROL. This system will become the main
managerial tool to improve overall efficiency in the medium-term. The studies
will be financed out of the technical assistance component of the loan.
59.   The  Government  recently  introduced  significant  reforms  in  the
telecommunications sector.   These are aimed at opening to private sector
participation the provision of some selected services (publifax, teletex,
videotex, electronic mail and data transmission); allowing municipal companies
to compete with TELECOM in national long distance and cellular communications;
enabling  municipal  companies  to  subcontract  the  provision  of  basic
telecommunicazions services with the private sector and to provide international
long distance services in association with TELECOM; and transferring to the
Government the planning and regulatory role that TELECOM had exercised in the
sector. The Government's main objective in the case of the performance plan for
TELECOM will consist in restructuring the company to enable it to compete in the
new sector environment. This will require defining performance targets for each
of the services provided by TELECOM which will be treated as separate profit
centers. As in the case of ECOPETROL, TELECOM will undertake to establish a
management cost accounting system to improve management's capacity to plan and
control operations. In addition, TELECOM will carry out a study to review its
current tariff structure and will undertake to revise it to reflect the long-
run marginal cost for the provision of those telecommunication services which
are not going to be initially subjected to competition (i.e., provision of local
and international long distance services). Finally, the performance plan will
define the macroeconomic framework for the company (total current and capital
expenditures, total indebtedness and transfer to Central Government) and specific
efficiency and profitability targets.
60.   In the case of ICT, the plan will consist of a major restructuring effort
including financial, operational and administrative reforms aimed at streamlining
and reducing the scope of ICT's operations in the financing and construction of
low-income housing and to improve its financial and operational performance (see
paras. 92-93). This plan reflects the initial actions to adjust ICT to the new
sector framework the Government intends to implement. In the case of HIMAT (the
Government's irrigation agency), the basic focus of the plan will be to
strengthen the cost recovery practices of this entity, ensure an appropriate
administrative decentralization of its operations and define targets for the
transfer of the operation and maintenance of the irrigation districts operated
by HIMAT to its beneficiaries. The performance plan for ICT and HIMAT have been



- 23 -
finalized and negotiated between the Government and the respective entities.
The Bank has reviewed and approved their content.
61.   The Bank has received the performance agreements for ICT and HINAT
reflecting the agreed objectives, performance targets and timetables.   The
Government has initiated detailed discussions regarding the performance plans
for ECOPETROL and TELECOM and intends to have those plans signed and effective
by December 31, 1990. As a condition of second tranche release, the Bank will
expect satisfactory progress in the initial operation of the PPES, including
that all first-round performance plans are being implemented in accordance with
their objectives, terms and timetables or that remedial action has been taken
to ensure compliance with agreed objectives.  In addition, performance plans
would have been signed and made effective with COLPUERTOS, CORELCA, IDEMA and
ICEL consistent with the objectives set forth for the PPES. As a condition of
third tranche release, the Bank shall be satisfied with the operation of the
PPES, includings (i) evaluation of public sector managers subjected to the first-
round of performance plans has been carried out and the incentive scheme has been
applied in a consistent manner; (ii) there is continued compliance with the
objectives, terms and timetables set forth for the first- and second-round of
performance plans or that remedial action has been undertaken to ensure
compliance with agreed objectives; and (iii) performance plans would have been
signed and made effective with SENA, ISA, CVC and ISS consistent with the
objectives set forth for the PPES. The Government and the Bank have selected
the entities to be subjected to the PPES based on the fiscal significance and
efficiency problems faced by the entities.   The Government will seek Bank
concurrence before replacing any of the entities selected for the second- or
third-round of performance plans.   In authorizing a change in the list of
selected public entities, the Bank will ensure that the entity proposed presents
equivalent challenges in terms of fiscal and efficiency performance.
=     Improvement of the Policy and Institutional Environment for the
Manaaement of DPS Ooerations.
62.   A scenario where DPS entities are evaluated in terms of their efficiency
in carrying out specific mandates from the Central Government Lequires clear
delimitation  of  the  entities'  sphere  of  management  responsibilities,
rationalization of Government intervention in their management processes, and
streamlining of administrative and legal procedures, with a view towards
increasing the entities'  autonomy and accountability.   Under the current
environment, the pervasive ad hoc intervention of the Central Government in such
areas as pricing, managerial appointments, labor benefits, and organizational
structure, as well as the inefficiencies derived from the existing regulations
on procurement and reporting requirements, undermines the role of the boards of
directors and managers of public entities.
63.   The Government has presented to the Bank a Letter of Development Policy
defining its basic policies and strategies in managing the DPS and in
streamlining   the regulatory environment under which the DPS operates. In
addition, this Letter includes the Government policy objectives and schedule of
actions to improve public sector productivity and efficiency in resource
allocation and use in areas where the public sector has up to now played a



- 24 -
dominant role, including the elimination of public monopolies and changes in
the regulatory framework of key economic sectors to enable free entry and
increased competition. A translated version of the Letter received by the Bank
has been attached as Annex 8.  As a condition of second  and third tranche
release, the Government will have complied with the policy objectives and the
corresponding programs of action in the various sectors set forth in the Letter
of Development Policy.
64.   The Letter of Development Policy includes the Governmentfs policy for the
rationalization of DPS management. Pursuant to this policy, the Central
Government will limit its intervention in the management of its DPS to specific
strategic roles, i.e., ensure consistency of the entity's operation with
macroeconomic constraints (Financial Plan); define the strategic objectives to
be pursued by the entity, based on sector policy priorities (performance plans);
appoint the entity's board members and senior management; evaluate management's
performance (performance plans); define clear and permanent pricing and
investment policies to be followed by each entity (performance plans); and
refrain from taking any other action. To minimize interventionism, the Bank will
seek regulatory changes aimed at transferring responsibilities in such areas as
personnel and procurement.
65.   The Government has undertaken in the Letter of Development Policy to seek
a substantial reform of current procurement regulations, which are a major
contributor to public sector inefficiency. It has agreed to seek Congressional
authority to reform the existing procurement regulations. This reform will focus
on eliminating the countless review procedures applicable to procurement
decisions, reducing the focus of current regulations on the compliance with the
letter of formal and legal requirements to a- extent that has perverted the basic
economic nature of procurement procedures, and eliminating preferences granted
to domestic producers under the public procurement laws that exceed the tariff
protection levels under the general trade regime. The Government will undertake
to present the corresponding legislative initiative not later than December 31,
1991.
66.   The Government has recently issued regulations freezing in real terms the
aggregate recurrent expenditures for each public entity and delegating to each
entity's management the power to make the adjustment i terms of organizational
structure and personnel plant necessary to comply with the ceiling.   As an
incentive, public managers are authorized to keep and assign with no restrictions
any portion of the aggregate recurrent expenditures which are not utilized for
those purposes.
-     Extension of PPES to Municivally-Owned Entities Benefittinc from
External Credit.
67.   A constitutional provision establishing the autonomy of municipalities
and municipally-owned entities from the Central Government has prevented the
Government from including some municipally-owned DPS entities under the newly
established controls for DPS operations. Some of these entities have significant
macroeconomic  impact  derived  from  their  financial  results,  borrowing
requirements, and investment programs. The main utility companies are



- 25 -
municipally-owned and have in the past relied on Central Government guarantees
for access to external credit markets.  While some of these utilities have
consistently presented satisfactory financial results, others have become
significant burdens on the Central Government, which has in practice no effective
recourse to seek compensation or urge remedial action from the respective
municipal authorities.
68.   In order to ensure greater financial discipline by municipally-owned
companies, the Government has agreed in the Letter of Development Policy to
define as a general policy, that, in considering requests for Central Government
guarantees from municipally-owned companies, the Government will require that
the prospective borrower has agreed on a performance plan aimed at ensuring the
companies, debt servicing capacity. The Government will closely monitor, through
CONFIS, the compliance with the plan's targets and seek remedial action in case
of failure to meet the agreed targets. The Government has indicated it will
issue a policy directive to that effect by December 31, 1990. The Letter of
Development policy reflects the understanding reached on this matter.
Privatization
69.    Financial Sector.  The financial sector in Colombia has shown steady
improvement since the crisis in the early eighties that led to the
nationalization, liquidation or temporary intervention of a significant share
of the private banking sector. The group of five banks nationalized in the 1980s,
represents about 25% of total banking sector assets. The nationalized banks faced
serious liquidity and solvency problems. The largest bank in the group is the
Banco de Colombia (representing 61% of total nationalized assets), followed by
Banco del Estado (18.8%), Banco del Comercio (16.5%), Tequendama (3%) and
Trabajadores (2.23%). Of these five banks, only the three smallest ones have
substantially recuperated their financial soundness. Although the Banco del
Estado has also improved its financial performance, it is the subject of a court
claim that, if successful, would wipe out the bank's capital and reserves.
Finally, the Banco de Colombia is still in a process of strengthening its
financial position and there is uncertainty as to the type and level of financial
assistance that would be required to put it in sound financial footing. Public
sector participation in commercial banking is constituted also by ownership of
Banco Popular (representing about 10% of total banking sector assets) and two
quasi-public banks which are owned and administered by trust funds established
with the participation of the Government and the coffee growers (Banco Cafetero)
and the cattle raising associations (Banco Ganadero). These two quasi-public
banks represent about 23% of total banking sector assets.
70.   The sector shows at this time substantial improvements in terms of overall
solvency, profitability and capitalization. In addition, the Government has
significantly strengthened prudential regulation of the sector. The policy
priorities for the Government in the financial sector are rapidly shifting
towards the need to increase competition in order to improve allocative
efficiency, reduce intermediation costs and seek more responsiveness from the
sector to meet the financial needs of the economy.  The financial sector's
oligopolistic structure is recognized as a major obstacle to competition. The
sector is characterized by a few large financial intermediaries, including a
dominant presence of Government-owned banks, combined with a number of small



- 26 -
inefficient institutions. Recently, the Government has taken significant actions
to eliminate barriers to entry in the financial sector as a means to improve
competition and strengthen the sector's capital base. It obtained passage of a
law in December 1989 allowing foreign investors' control of financial
institutions. The Government intends to use the privatization of nationalized
banks as an instrument to attract foreign investment to the sector.   The
Government's intention is to bring to the market all nationalized banks that have
reached a financial position that would make them attractive to the private
sector. Unfortunately, the two main banks do not meet that condition. Banco
de Colombia is still in a very weak financial position, requiring additional
Government equity contributions and further restructuring of its operations.
Banco del Estado faces a major uncertainty derived from pending judicial
processes. The Government has agreed to explore restructuring strategies for
Banco de Colombia that could lead to its partial or total divestment. In the
case of Banco del Estado, the Government has no other alternative than to wait
for the outcome of the judicial processes.
71.   In mid-1989, the Government issued regulations for the privatization of
publicly-owned banks. Last March, the Government brought to the market one of
the nationalized banks - Banco de los Trabajadores. Despite active interest from
both foreign and private investors, the bidding period expired in July with no
firm offers having been received.   The failure has been attributed to the
relative rigidity of the current privatization rules (mainly the requirement that
the controlling package that is auctioned cannot exceed 51% of the bank's
shares), the concern of investors that the potential value of some contingent
liabilities - derived from pending judicial processes - may have been
underestimated by the Government and the small asset and capital base of the
bank.   The Government  has recently revised the privatization procedures
(including the possibility of awarding the totality of a bank's shares to one
individual investor), and will explore the possibility of merging banks to
present investors with more attractive packages in terms of asset and capital
base.
72.   As a condition for second tranche release, the Bank will require that the
Government has brought to the point of sale the Banco de los Trabajadores, Banco
del Comercio and Banco Tequendama, either individually or after modifying their
asset structure to ensure packages that will be more attractive to potential
investors. As a condition of third tranche release, the Government will have
defined a strategy and a satisfactory related schedule of actions to privatize
or restructure, with the aim of total or partial divestment, Banco de Colombia
and any of the other nationalized banks brought to the point of sale for which
no acceptable bids have been received. The strategies for all these banks should
include a definition of the viability and costs associated with bringing them
to the stage of privatization and an assessment of alternative courses of action
available to the Government, with their respective cost-benefit analysis. The
technical assistance component of the loan will provide for the financing of the
studies required to define the strategy for privatization of the referred banks.
73.    Industrial Sector. IFI's industrial investment activities have made it
the principal instrument for public sector participation in the industrial sector
(see para. 39). IFI has initiated an aggressive program to sell its investment
portfolio as part of a broader restructuring plan aimed at its financial



- 27 -
rehabilitation and the redefinition of its role as the Government's bank for
industrial development. The 1989-90 Privatization Program included the sale of
IFI's equity participations in 18 companies with an estimated value of US$158
million. As a result of this program, IFI has sold seven equity participation
for a total of about US$150 million. This amount pertains mainly to the sale
by IFI of two sizable companies (PAPELCOL and SOFASA).   In addition, the
remaining 11 companies included in the 1989-90 Privatization Program have been
brought to the point of sale.
74.   IFI has already completed the terms of reference and the selection of
consultants to carry out a study to determine the feasibility of restructuring
ALCALIS, with a view to its later privatization or, alternatively, a plan for
its liquidation. ALCALIS, a company wholly owned by IFI producing basic chemical
inputs and raw materials for domestic industries, represents IFI's third largest
investment and its second largest debtor. It is the only remaining manufacturing
concern controlled by the public sector. ALCALIS has been facing serious
financial and operational problems for the last decade as a result of Government
price controls, technological obsolescence, and excessive labor costs and pension
burden. The Government has been reluctant to order its liquidation since it is
the sole provider of chlorine for water supply and refined salt for private
consumption. No private sector interest has been expressed in acquiring the
company. A study to define a strategy for ALCALIS will be financed out of the
technical assistance component of the proposed operation. The Government has
undertaken to complete the study and prepare a restructuring plan aimed at
ensuring the financial viability and eventual privatization of the company.
75.   The Letter of Development policy contains the Government's commitment to
continue satisfactory progress in the privatization of IFI's portfolio, including
definition of a 1991-92 Privatization Program that will include the remaining
IFI's mature investments which are in a condition of being brought to the point
of sale and the definition during the course of 1991 of a satisfactory strategy
to deal with ALCALIS.
Private Sector Development
76.   This component will seek improved efficiency of resource use through the
promotion of private sector participation and competition in sectors dominated
by the public sector, through public monopolies, over-extended public sector
presence or by public regulatory restrictions on entry and competition. It will
build upon recent Government decisions aimed at promoting private sector
development in railways, ports, shipping, low-income housing, agricultural
marketing and in the industrial and financial sectors. The proposed operation
will assist the Government to deepen and broaden its decisions, and ensure their
implementation leads to the establishment of adequate competitive incentive
structures.
77.    Railways.  The Government has taken significant actions to deal with the
inefficiencies generated by the public sector monopoly in railways.   After
obtaining Congressional authority in late 1988, the Government issued in July
1989 various decrees liquidating the existing company, terminating the public
sector monopoly in railway operations and establishing the free entry of private



- 28 -
investors to operate in the sector, either by the establishment of wholly-
private enterprises or through joint ventures with the public sector.
78.   The public sector monopoly has been replaced initially by the establishment
of two officially-sponsored companies: (i) a Government-owned company in charge
of the operation, rehabilitation, and maintenance of the rail system (FERROVIAS)
that will be in charge of providing track infrastructure services and regulating
traffic and security matters, and (ii) a rolling stock company which has
inherited all Government-owned rolling stock material and will provide rail
transport services on a commercial basis (STF). The Government's policy is to
seek maximum private sector participation in the capital and management of STF
and to facilitate the establishment of all private sector ventures for the
provision of rail transport services on a commercial basis. For these purposes,
the Government has determined that railway operators will be free to determine
tariffs and the terms for the provision of their services, subject exclusively
to their compliance with traffic and security regulations.
79.   The Government has made significant progress in implementing its new
railway sector policy. Liquidation of the existing Government-owned railways
company has proceeded on schedule.   A total of 1,240 workers had accepted
voluntary termination with compensation by December 1989. No serious problems
are foreseen in meeting the personnel reduction targets, since a climate of
cooperation has developed among the unions, the company, and the Government.
The newly established companies are expected to engage only 1,000 workers, down
from the total of 7,000 of the previous company. The operational, investment,
and financial plans for FERROVIAS and STF have been finalized and the promotional
efforts to attract private sector participation have been initiated with very
promising results.   Private sector investors representing coffee growers, a
leading brewery and industrial interests have formally indicated their intention
to subscribe 49% of STF's capital and the Government has agreed to relinquish
its right to control STF's directory. The Government is at an advanced stage
of negotiations with a leading coal firm for the establishment of a private
venture for the transport of about two million tons of coal for export annually
through ports in the Atlantic.
80.   The Government has included in the Letter of Development Policy a statement
of the policies it will continue to implement in the railways sector.  The
statement includes the Government's commitment to : (i) promote the comparative
advantages of this transport mode in order to ensure the development cf an
efficient transport infrastructure; (ii) limit its role in the sector exclusively
to the formulation of sector policy, the regulation of the sector, the operation
of the rail infrastructure system through the operation of FERROVIAS and the
provision of rail transport services through joint venture operations with the
private sector operated on a commercial basis; (iii) limit FERROVIAS' investment
program to those expenditures which are economically and financially justified
and which have been identified as necessary to meet the operational requirements
of STF or private operators; (iv) make FERROVIAS financially sustainable through
the establishment of a tariff policy for FERROVIAS that would recuperate the full
operational, maintenance and investmenit costs related to rail infrastructure;
and (v) maintain a personnel plant for FERROVIAS which will be strictly related
to its routine operational needs and the obligation to sub-contract all
maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion needs of the firm. As a consequence



- 29 -
of the extremely deteriorated condition of the rail infrastructure and to create
minimum conditions of operation for the private sector, the Government has agreed
to contribute to the initial investment and operational costs of FERROVIAS with
the objective of putting the railway sector in a position to develop its
comparative advantages over other modes of transport. Once these minimum
operational conditions have been achieved, the sector will be financially self-
sustainable through the consistent application of the tariff policy defined
above.
81.   The  Government  has  made  substantial  progress  in  implementing  the
commercial, operational, investment and financial plans for the establishment
of the two officially-sponsored companies. Adherence to the above-summarized
policy conditions, contained in the Letter of Development Policy, will be
assessed within the context of the objectives of the Public Sector Reform Program
prior to release of the loan tranches.
82.   The technical assistance component of the loan will finance a study to
define a tariff system for the provision of rail infrastructure services by
FERROVIAS.   The study would be completed by June 1991 and will be aimed at
ensuring FERROVIAS' financial autonomy through the full recovery of its
operational and maintenance costs and a reasonable contribution towards
rehabilitation and expansion of the rail system. The Government will undertake
to implement the conclusions and recommendation of the study by December 31,
1991. In addition, the technical assistance will include a study to review the
economic and technical justification of the proposed investment program for the
rehabilitation of FERROVIAS' rail infrastructure. The study will be completed
and the recommendation implemented not later than June 30, 1991.
83.    Ports. COLPUERTOS' monopoly in the handling of trade cargo has been
tempered by the Government over the years by allowing, on a discretionary basis,
the handling of port operations by third parties (both public and private) to
avoid bottlenecks and to enable the viability of certain economic activities that
were especially vulnerable to COLPUERTOS' inefficiencies. As a result of this
process, by 1988, COLPUERTOS was handling only 14.8% of total import/export
cargo, with the public specialized ports for oil, coal, and banana handling 63.4%
of the cargo and private docks handling 20.8% of total cargo (Annex 9). In the
area of ger.eral cargo handling, however, COLPUERTOS continued to have substantial
participation (41.6% of total general cargo) and a monopoly on the provision of
port services to the public (Annex 10). Private docks have only been allowed
to handle cargo directly related to the operator's industrial or commercial
operations and must pay a fee to COLPUERTOS for the use of areas under the
latter's concession area. The previous Administration had authorized two private
sector investors to provide public port services that would compete with the
services provided by Colpuertos. The new port terminals would be located in
three of the four cities where Colpuertos' terminals operate, e.g., Santa Marta,
Cartagena and Buenaventura. Negotiations with the approved private investors on
the specific conditions of the investment and the regulatory framework (tariff
regime, compensation for the use of public resources, etc.) for their operation
have come to a virtual standstill. This has been due to the limitations posed
by the existing regulatory framework that grants COLPUERTOS an inordinate
capacity to restrict sector competition and the previous Administration's



- 30 -
intention to impose to the private sector a tariff regime that would limit the
competition COLPUERTOS would face in the initial stages of the reform program.
84.   COLPUERTOS continues to provide extremely inefficient operations as a
result of poor management, obsolete equipment, poor maintenance practices and
the concessions granted to the labor unions in the organization and
implementation of port operations. COLPUERTOS is in addition facing mounting
financial difficulties as a result of excessive labor and pension costs and a
distorted tariff system. The Bank made a loan to COLPUERTOS in 1985 aimed at
improving basic infrastructure and providing technical assistance to improve
corporate performance. Project execution has been very slow, and COLPUERTOS'
operational and financial condition has continued to deteriorate.
85.   In order to overcome the difficulties that have prevented the start-up of
an effective reform program in the sector, the new administration -in a major
breakthrough - has undertaken a full restructuring of the port sector aimed at
establishing a transparent and comprehensive regulatory framework to enable open
competition among private and public operators. The main elements of the sector
restructuring program are the following:  (i) the establishment of a uniform
tariff policy for private sector operators. In the initial stages the Government
would set tariffs for port operators based on the long-run marginal cost concept.
As soon as the supply of port services guarantees an adequate level of
competition, the Government would move to a system of free prices for port
services. The tariff regulations would be made applicable to COLPUER1LOS in the
medium-term; (ii) the establishment of uniform criteria and methodology to
determine the compensation the Government will charge port operators for the use
of public resources and facilities.  The compensation will be based in the
scarcity value of the resource assigned, alternative uses, the potential for
contamination, etc. To the extent possible, the Government would apply market
mechanisms to determine the level of compensation for the use of public
resources. In the medium-term compensation would be applicable to both public
and private sector operators; (iii) the clear separation of the regulatory and
operating function within the sector. The Government, through the Ministry of
Transport, would become the exclusive regulatory and planning authority in the
sector and will ensure transparent and equal treatment for private and public
sector operators. This will relieve COLPUERTOS of its current regulatory role
and monopolistic position in the provision of port services; (iv) the
establishment of a transparent system to grant licenses to operate in the sector.
This system should take into consideration various factors, (i.e., technical and
economic aspects, environmental concerns, alternative economic use of resources)
relevant to the granting of a port license and to the extent possible rely on
competitive mechanisms to award licenses among interested parties, and v) the
restructuring of COLPUERTOS aimed at adjusting its functions and operations to
the proposed sector strategy of enabling open competition between public and
private sector operators. The Government has undertaken to carry out the
technical studies required to define the mechanisms and specifics needed to
implement the new regulatory framework. The terms of reference for the studies
have been prepared and it is expected that they will be completed during 1991,
including the draft regulations dealing with the matters referred to in sub-
paragraphs (i) to (iii) above.



- 31 -
86.   In order to implement the propoEad sector restructuring program, the
Government has already sought legislative authority from Congress to modify the
current sector regulatory framework. Finally, the Government has undertaken to
reinitiate the negotiations with those private investors who had been originally
authorized to enter the sector and seek an early resolution of the pending issues
in accordance with the policy objectives described above.
87.   As a condition of second tranche release, the Government will have defined
a restructuring program for COLPUERTOS aimed at adjusting COLPUERTOS operations
and functions to the new sector environment, including ensuring the financial
and operational autonomy of the entity's terminals. The performance plan for
COLPUERTOS which is required as a second tranche condition will contain the first
year actions of the restructuring plan. As a condition of third tranche release,
the Government would have carried out COLPUERTOS' restructuring program in
accordance with its respective objectives, action plans and timetables. Aa-
sDecial condition of tranche release (see para. 101), the Government would have
restructured its port sector, including its tariff regime, the scheme of
compensation for the use of public resources, the system for granting licenses
to port investors/operators and the separation of the regulatory and operating
furctions within the sector.
88.    Shilnin . Flag law protection, which reserves for national shipping lines
a portion of the country's foreign trade, has been applied to its fullest extent
in Colombia during the last decade. The objective was to enable the development
of a strong national shipping line by granting FMG virtual monopolistic
protection that would allow it to operate in the liner services market which has
been characterized by the prevalence of cartel arrangements. The result has been
that FMG has actually reduced its tonnage during the recent years and operates
a technically obsolete fleet which provides inefficient services at high costs.
Moreover, flag law has increased the country's dependency on foreign liners since
about 60% of general imports protected by flag law are transported in foreign
liners associated with, or leased by, FMG (Annex 11).
89.   Consistent with the objective of ensuring an adequate supply response
following the launching of the EMP, the Colombian Government has indicated its
intention to gradually dismount the protection granted to FMG and other minor
carriers in order to improve the availability, quality and costs of services
provided to importers/exporters. In March 1990, it issued a decree reducing
the reserve for national liners on bulk cargo to 10% (against the prior
requirement of 50% of the total bulk cargo) and reduced protection for general
import cargo to a level not exceeding 50% (against th-u prior requirement of not
less than 50% of total general import cargo, which had resulted in an effective
reserve average of about 75%).   In addition, the decree provides for more
flexible procedures and controls for the administration of the qucta system.
90.   Some positive developments have followed the reforms introduced in the
flag law regulations.   Shipping ratea for coffee exports and some selected
imports in the routes to Northern Europe have declined in percentages ranging
from 10% to 28% and the FMG has announced a restructuring program that will
include staff reductions, the modernization of its fleet and the reorganization
of its operations to rationalize costs and operate only those services which are



- 32 -
profitable. On the other hand, some obstacles remain that limit the potential
for competition generated by the recent measures: (i) foreign shipping companies
are only authorized to remit abroad up to 80% of their freight rates creating
a serious disincentive for participation in the Colombian market to those foreign
companies that do not benefit from flag law protection; (ii) the mechanisms to
control compliance tith the reserve quota continue to be burdensome, limiting
the ability of users to seek the most advantageous liner service; and (iii) the
maintenance of a 10% reserve quota for bulk cargo. As a condition of second
tranche release the Government will:   (i) eliminate the remittance ceiling
imposed on foreign liners; (ii) streamline mechanisms to control compliance with
reserve quotas, and; (iii) further reduce reserve quotas on bulk imports to a
maximum level of no more than 5% of total bulk imports.
91.   In addition to the action referred to above, the Government has proposed
to review the shipping protection system to assess the impact of the recent
reforms, identify alternatives to the current quota-based protection system and
define a time-bound plan of action to improve competition in the sector that may
include the phasing-out of the quota-based system.  As a condition of third
tranche release, the Government would have defined an action plan to reform the
institutional and regulatory framework of the shipping sector aimed at improving
sector competition, and, taken initial actions in the implementation of such plan
to substantially reduce the reserve cargo quota for general imports. The Bank
has informed the Government it would consider as s-sbstantial a reduction of the
reserved quota to a level of about 30% of total general imports.
92.    Low-Income Housinc. The Government has defined a new strategy for the
low-income housing sector. It is aimed at rationalizing the administration of
subsidies, which have traditionally been provided by ICT via credit, and at
reducing the role of the public se.tor as financier and constructor. The public
sector is to be replaced by the private sector, municipalities and NGOs, which
would become the main operators in the low income housing sector. The proposed
strategy will require ICT's restructuring to become mainly the administrator of
the new sector subsidy scheme. While the sector reform is put in place, the main
features of ICT's restructuring plan would be: (i) reducing the scope of ICT's
operations to specific targets of beneficiaries (ICT would provide housing for
families earning up to two-and-a-half times the minimum wage) and housing costs
(not to exceed US$6,000 per unit and averaging about US$4,000); (ii) improving
ICT's financial position through programs of staff reductions, asset divestment,
and aggressive portfolio recuperation (providing for the sale of the existing
loan portfolio to the loan beneficiaries at a discount in exchange for up-front
cash payments); and (iii) gradually reducing ICT's operation by subcontracting
with the private sector the planning and development of construction projects,
redefining credit policies and operations for its target population, and
providing up-front subsidies to eligible families who will obtain housing finance
from the private sector.
93.   In addition to ICT's restructuring, under the proposed loan the Government
will carry out a comprehensive program for qradually dismantling the forced
investment financing of ICT and establishing a new strategy for financing low-
income housing. This strategy will consist of increasing the incentives for
private sector financing of low-income housing by substantially reducing interest
rate-related subsidies (interest rates would, in any case, remain positive in



- 33 -
real terms) and promoting the provision of subsidies to target groups through
up-front Government grants financed from the budget.  As a special condition of
tranche release (see para. 101), the Government would have implemented the main
elements of the sector restructuring: (i) divested ICT of its role as financier
and constructor of low-income housing, except for a limited role of channelling
budget resources through the financial sector to private and municipal entities
developing housing projects for family groups with an aggregate income below
US$180 equivalent, such resources to be borrowed and on-lent by the financial
sector at the relevant market interest rates; (ii) established a well targeted
and efficient system of subsidies to low income beneficiaries through direct and
transparent means; (iii) eliminated financial sector's forced investment as a
net source of financing to the sector and defined a plan for phasing-out ICT's
liabilities to the sector; and (iv) established a satisfactory incentive
structure promoting private sector and NGO participation in the sector, including
a substantial reduction of interest rate-related subsidies. In the Letter of
Development Policy, the Government has undertaken to phase-out these credit
subsidies, subject to improved fiscal capacity.
94.   Agricultural Marketing. The Government has announced its intention to
rationalize the role the public sector has played in agricultural marketing.
It is the Government's intention to eliminate IDEMA's monopoly on agricultural
imports and to replace the import quota system administered by the Ministry of
Agriculture with a tariff-based protection system.   The Government does not
intend at this stage to reduce the protection levels afforded to domestic
producers.   However, in the medium-term it would reduce protection in terms
consistent with the objectives of the overall trade reform program.
95.   The technical assistance component of the loan will finance a study aimed
at defining the technical and economic work required to carry out the proposed
sector reform, including the possibility of establishinj a system of variable
tariffs and price bands, the consistency of the proposed protection regime with
the current price support system and the restructuring of IDEMA in line with the
new role assigned to the public sector in agricultural marketing.
96.   The Letter of Development Policy contains the general policy objectives
and specific undertakings the Government will pursue in the agricultural
marketing sector. As a special condition of tranche release (see para. 101),
the Government would have established a transparent and automatic system to
allow the private sector to freely import selected agricultural products which
are currently reserved for import by IDEMA and the conversion of the import-
quota based regime for these products into a tariff-based protection system.
C.    LoaA Historv
97.   Discussions regarding the proposed operation were initiated in December
1989 as part of the dialogue that was initiated with thte Government on Bank's
assistance to the Economic Modernization Program. The Government agreed at that
time to define a public sector reform program that would build upon actions
recently taken to improve public sector manageme t and would seek to undertake
reforms aimed at supporting the objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
Preparation missions took place in January and March of this year leading to the
definition of the Public Sector Reform Program and che conditionality for the



- 34 -
proposed loan. The program was appraised in June 1990. Loan negotiations took
place in Washington D.C. beginning November 1, 1990. The Colombian negotiating
team was led by Ms. Monica Aparicio.
D.   Loan Amount and Tr-pnchina
98.   The proposed loan would be for US$304 million. The IDB has committed in
principle parallel financing for the proposed operatlon in the amount of UC$305
million. Loan disbursements would be linked to satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the reform program and the maintenance of macroeconomic
performance consistent with the objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
Due to the phased nature of the program, it is proposed that loan disbursements
be made in three separate tranches over a two-year period equivalent to US$100
each. In addition the loan will finance a US$4 million technical assistance
component that will not be subject to tranching. The Closing Date of the proposed
operation is December 31, 1992.
E.    Loan Conditions
99.   The following are specific conditions for second tranche release:
(a) Maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
(b) Compliance with the policy objectives and programs included in the
Public Sector Reform Program described in the Letter of Development Policy.
(c) Performance plans with COLPUERTOS, ICEL, CORELCA and IDEMA have been
signed and made effective consistent with the objectives set forth for the PPES.
(d) First-round performance plans are being implemented in accordance
with their objectives, terms ant timetables or that remedial action, has been
taken ensure compliance with agreed objectives.
(e) The Government has defined a restructuring program for COLPUERTOS
aimed at adjusting its operations and functions to the Alew sector environment.
(f) The Government would have taken the following actions to improve
competition in the shipping sector: (i) eliminate ceiling on remittance of
freight receipts applicable to foreign liners; (ii) reduce the reserved quota
on bulk import cargo to no more than 5% of total bulk imports, and (iii)
streamline mechanisms to control compliance with reserve quotas.
(g) The Government has brought to the point of sale the Banco de los
Trabajadores, Banco de Comercio and Banco Tequendama, either individually or
after merging these banks in any combination.



- 35 -
100. The following are specific conditions for third tranche release:
(a)  Maintenance  of  a macroeconomic  framework  consitent  with  the
objectives of the Economic Modernization Program.
(b)   Compliance with the policy objectives and programs included in the
Public Sector Reform Program described in the Letter of Development Policy.
(c)  Performace plans with SENA, ISS, ISA, and CVC have been signed and
made effective consistent with the objectives set forth for the PPES.
(d)   Implementation of the PPES in accordance with its objectives,
including the evaluation of public sector managers included in the first-round
performance plan and application of the agreed management incentive scheme.
First-and second-round performace plans are being implemented in accordance with
their objectives, schedules and targets or remedial action, has been taken to
ensure compliance with the above mentioned objectives.
(e)   The  Government  will  have defined  an  action plan to  improve
competition in the shipping sector and substantially lowered flag law reserve
quotas on general imports.
(f)  The Government will have defined a strategy and satisfactory related
schedule of actions to privatize or restructure, with the aim of total or partial
divestment, Banco de Colombia and any other nationalized banks brought to the
point of sale for which no acceptable bids have been received.
(g)   The Government will have implemented the restructuring program for
COLPUERTOS in accordance with its respective objectives, action plans and
timetables.
101. The following are special conditions of tranche release aimed at providing
the Government with some flexibility in the management of its legislative agenda
(see para. 111). The Government will be required to comply with at least one
of these conditions at the time of second tranche release and with the two
remaining conditions at the time of third tranche release:
(a)  The Government will have restructured its port sector, including a
uniform tariff regime, the scheme of compensation for the use of public
resources, the system for granting licenses to port investors/operators and the
separation of the regulatory and operating functions within the sector.
(b)  Implementation of the following reforms in the low income income
housing sector: (i) eliminate ICT's role as financier and constructor of low
income housing; (ii) establish a well targeted and efficient system to low-
income beneficiaries through direct and transparent means; (iii) establish an
incentive forced investment by the financial sector as a source of net financing
for the sector and adopt a plan for phasing out ICTs liabilities to the financial
sector.



- 36 -
(c)  The establishment of a system allowing the private sector to freely
import selected agricultural products currently reserved for import by IDEMA
and the conversion of the current import quota system to a tariff-based
protection system for these products.
F.    Disbursements. Procurement and Auditina.
102. Disbursement of the policy component of the loan (equivalent to US$300
million) will be linked to satisfactory adherence to the policy objectives
defined iin the Letter of Development policy and compliance with the specific
conditions of tranche release (see above). This component will be used to finance
the CIF cost of eligible imports by the public and private sectors. Ineligible
imports comprise goods financed by other multilateral or bilateral sources,
luxury goods, goods intended for military purposes and other included in a
negative list. Disbursements against contracts valued in an amount not exceeding
US$5 million equivalent may be financed out of the loan proceeds on the basis
of statements of expenditures, with the documentation retained by BR fcr review
by the Bank as required. Disbursements against contracts exceeding said amount
will require full documentation. No prior approval by the Bank of the individual
contract and corresponding procurement procedures will be required. Retroactive
financing in the amount of US$60 million equivalent would be available for
eligible expenditures incurred after September 1, 1990.
103. In addition the loan will finance the cost of consultants' services
included in a technical assistance component aimed at providing the technical,
economic and legal underpinning for the sector reforms and restructuring programs
included in the Public Sector Reform Program. In this line this component will
finance the preparation and implementation of performance plans by selected
public entities and studies required to define policies and action plans in tne
areas of shipping, railways, ports, banking, public enterprise restructuring and
agricultural marketing (Annex 13). The cost of this component has been estimated
at US$8.0 million equivalent of which US$4.0 million will be financed out of the
proposed loan. The disbursement of this component will coincide with the
disbursement of the policy component of the loan. Consultants financed by the
loan will be employed in accordance with procedures and criteria set forth in
the "Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" and with terms of reference and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.
104. Procurement of general imports will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for goods estimated to cost in excess
of US$5 million equivalent will be procured through ICB, with simplified
requirements in terms of advertising and currency provisions. Public sector
contracts valued below US$5 million may be carried out following the standard
procedures of the purchasing institutions. Public sector procurement procedures
in Colombia have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory for these
purposes. Private sector contracts valued below US$5 million will follow
established commercial practice. The Bank has been satisfied in the past--in
the coniext of its industrial development lending and the previous quick
disbursing operations--with the procurement practices followed by the private
sector in Colombia. Although competition has been adversely affected by the
inward orientation of the trade regime and some domestic policies (i.e.,



- 37 -
regulation of selected prices and barriers to entry), the private sector has been
oriented towards seeking efficiency and cost effectiveness in acquiring the goods
and services required for investment and production purposes. The Government's
decision to open the economy to external competition and remove domestic barriers
to competition constitutes a substantial improvement of the incentive framework
to further promote efficiency and cost effectiveness in private sector
procurement.
105.     Some limited procurement of equipment (estimated not to exceed US$1
million) maybe required under the Technical Assistance component.  Contracts
for equipment estimated to cost le3s than US$25,000 maybe procured through local
shopping; contracts estimated to cost over US$25,000 and less than US$100,000
maybe procured through limited international shopping procedures and contracts
estimated to cost more than US$250,000 shall be procured in accordance with ICB.
The Bank will require prior review of contracts exceeding US$300,000 and the
first two contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000.
106.     BR will be responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant
documentation to support withdrawal applications. It will maintain separate
accounts to record and monitor loan disbursements under the quick disbursing
component. These accounts will be audited not later than 90 days after completing
disbursements under each of the loan tranches in accordance with sound accounting
principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements of the
technical assistance component will be channelled by the Government to the
relevant agencies.
G.    Monitoring and Reportina.
107.     The proposed operation will require monitoring of the implementation
of the various elements of the EMP and, more specifically, c-f the various
institutional reforms and actions included in the Public Sector Reform Program.
The Bank will carry out its monitoring of the EMP through regular supervision
and exchange of views with the Government.   The areas to be covered in the
monitoring are: (i) the Government's macroeconomic program to ensure the
attainment of the objectives of the EMP; and (ii) the Public Sector Reform
Program. The Government of Colombia has recently agreed that a soecial procedure
be followed to provide the Bank staff with the basis for assessing the adequacy
of macro-economic perform: ce for the purpose of the tranche releases.  Under
this procedure, the Bank and the Fund would collaborate in assessing performance
through joint missions to the country twice a year. As part of the agreement
the Colombian authorities have formally communicated to the Bank and the Fund
the main targets of the economic program, including specific macro-economic
indicators that would serve to provide the needed elements for the Bank's overall
judgement on the appropriateness of macro-economic performance. The specific
macro-economic indicators include annual targets for the 1990-1992 period on the
fiscal deficit, the external account deficit, international reserves, expansion
of financial credit to the public and private sector, expansion of net domestic
assets of the Banco de la Republica, external debt, and external debt service
ratio.  It is envisaged that the Bank's overall assessment of macro-economic
performance will incorporate and take into account the Fund's review and
assessment of progress. The monitoring of the Public Sector Reform Program will
require evaluating progress in the carrying out of the institutional reforms and



- 38 -
specific actions which have been specified as conditions of tranche release.
Performance of public entities included in the PPES will be carried out in
accordance with the targets set out in the respective performance plans. The
Government has assigned to CONFIS the responsibility for monitoring and
evaluating the public entities' performance semi-annually.
H.    Benefits and Risks.
108.     The proposed reforms are expected to result in significant improvements
in the public sector's resource use efficiency and financial performance. Those
areas that are likely to continue to be dominated by the public sector, e.g.,
petroleum and power, are expected to improve their efficiency and financial
performance initially as a result of improved investment planning and pricing
policies. For the period 1990-92, the DPS is expected to improve its fiscal
performance by -bout 1 point of GDP, moving from a deficit of .56% of GDP in 1990
to a surplus c .55% of GDP by 1992, as a result of higher revenue generation,
while maintaining expenditures under control. The improvement in the DPS' fiscal
performance will contribute to attain overall fiscal balance, or even a small
surplus, by 1992. Improved fiscal performance constitutes a basic condition for
the successful implementation of the EMP. It is difficult to estimate at this
time other efficiency and financial performance gains derived from the
introduction of the PPES, such as those deriving from cost reductions, improved
managerial practices and increased administrative efficiency. However, initial
diagnoses carried out in the preparation of the first round of performance plans
show there is ample margin for additional gains derived from improvements in
those areas.
109.     The elimination of entry and competition constraints in railways,
ports, shipping, banking, agricultural marketing and low-income housing will
lead to increased efficiency in the allocation and use of resources in those
sectors, and consequently, to a more dynamic growth pattern and substantial
improvements in output quality and cost efficiency. In the case of the transport
and financial sectors, this reforms will also be essential to satisfy the
productive sector's needs under a more competitive incentive structure derived
from the Government's trade reform program.
110.     There may be some adverse social effects derived from the need to lay
off personnel from various public entities that have gross overstaffing problems
e.g., railways, ports, ICT and telecommunications. The recent experience in the
railways shows that the short-term negative effects can be substantially
neutralized by providing adequate compensation packages, allowing early
retirement for people that have completed a significant period of service, and
phasing lay-off s over a period of time, thereby providing staff with a transition
period to seek otner employment opportunities. The labor related cost for the
restructuring of the public companies in the railways, ports, low-income housing
and telecommunications sectors have been estimated to exceed US$350 million.
111.     The Government has made a strong commitment to carry out the sector
reforms included in the program and has made substantial progress in defining
the strategy elements and costs associated with their implementation. In the
case of the reforms proposed for the ports, housing and agricultural marketing
sectors, the Government has decided to seek legislative changes to put into



- 39 -
effect the proposed reforms as the most expedient and effective means to ensure
their timely and successful implementation.   In order to reduce the risks
involved in ensuring congressional approval for the proposed reforms, the
Government has decided to seek as early as possible the corresponding
authorizations. In case the Government fails to obtain Congressional approval
for the sector reforms proposed, it is expected that it could still achieve the
reform objective within the existing regulatory framework. However, in this case
the risks of incurring significant delays in implementing the proposed reform
program and, in some cases, of compromising its policy objectives would be
higher. The strong support enjoyed by the new administration - both from public
opinion and in Congress - and its decision to give priority in its legislative
agenda to the matters included in the reform program mitigates the risks involved
and implies favourable prospects for a successful and timely implementation of
the reform program. In addition, to provide added flexibility to the Government
in managing its legislative strategy, those conditions of tranche release which
will require some form of Congressional approval have been grouped in a special
category of conditions (see para. 101). The Government would have to comply with
any one of those conditions prior to second tranche release and the two remaining
conditions prior to third tranche release.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Lending Oierations and Economic Sector Work
112.     Since the World Bank Group started its operations in Colombia in 1949,
it has approved 128 loans totalling US$6.3 billion, and one credit of US$23.5
million (both net of cancellations). As of June 30, 1990, the amount of loans
disbursed was US$5.23 billion, leaving an undisbursed amount of US$1.09 billion.
Of these amounts, US$2.22 billion has been repaid. One Hundred and two lo...s
totalling US$3.6 billion and one IDA credit of US$23.5 million have been fully
disbursed.   IFC has a total gross commitment of US$181.3 million in 34
enterprises, of which US$195.1 million was loans and US$36.2 million equity.
113.     After steady lending in the 1977-83 period, averaging US$340.7 million
per year, lending levels increased to over US$700 million a year in FY85-86,
then dropped to US$180 million in FY87. During the period of higher than normal
lending, the central focus of the lending program was three quick-disbursing
loans (Power Development Finance (FEN), Trade Policy and Export Diversification
(TPED), and Trade and Agricultural Policy (TAP)). These operations played a key
role in mobilizing external resources (commercial bank loans) in support of the
Government's macroeconomic program.   The Government complied with specific
conditionality and overall macroeconomic performance was excellent. In FY88,
the lending program picked up substantially totalling US$465 million (including
an adjustment loan for the Power Sector for US$300 million). It then dropped
to US$180 million in FY89, and was constituted by project investment operations,
based on sector development program. In FY90 lending amounted to $1S7 million
for three investment projects.
114.     As a result of an ongoing economic policy dialogue with the Government
and in response to Colombia's evolving needs, the profile of Bank lending has



- 40 -
changed over time.   Though the Bank has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the economy, the focus, in the early years, was mainly towards the
power and transport sectors.  In the mid-60s, 88% of Bank loans were made in
these two sectors. By contrast, from the late 1970s, about 50% of the loans
made to Colombia were for a more diversified set of sectors, though power still
played a major role.
115.     The Bank has had a productive dialogue with the Government on a wide
range of economic and sector issues based on the Bank staff's analytical work.
The Bank discussed with the Government an Economic Memorandum (Report No. 7629-
CO) in May 1989, which addressed the most pressing issues affecting development
in the medium term and efficiency of production. The Bank's survey of Trade
Policy and the seminar organized to discuss the report and present the experience
with trade liberalization in other countries, were important in strengthening
the Government's resolve to proceed with further trade liberalization. In the
past few months the Bank has also discussed with the Government studies on
Industrial Policy and Performance, Decentralization, Irrigation, and Technical
and Vocational Education. In the area of poverty alleviation, the Bank's work
has been welcomed and widely discussed in the country. For example, Community
Child Nutrition and Development Project (FY90) an operation focussed on the
feeding and protection of children in the poorest communities of Colombia, grew
directly from the work of the report.   In the Primary Education II Project
(FY89), report recommendations helped target additional lending to children in
poor urban neighborhoods with no prior access to schooling.
Bank Assistance StrateQv
116.     The new Government's economic policies reflect a strong commitment to
accelerate the pace of reforms begun by the previous government and to broaden
their scope in order to establish the basis for sustained growth. The speed and
comprehensiveness of policy initiatives begun or proposed in trade policy,
agricultural policy, financial sector development, and privatization/public
sector reform are unprecedented in Colombia, a country which has been
characterized by prudent macroeconomic management but a very gradual pace of
economic policy reform. The Government has at the same time reaffirmed its
commitment to poverty alleviation through better targeting of social programs
and improvements in the efficiency of delivery of social services. In responding
to these important initiatives the Bank has designed its lending program to
support the opening of the economy, policy reform in the agricultural sector,
improved productivity of public investments in infrastructure, and human
resources development targeted at poverty alleviation. In addition, all proposed
operations which provide credit to the private sector will be developed within
the context of the proposed financial sector reform program of the Government.
Bank lending operations will be focused on each of these objectives and will
support policy reform and institutional development in each area.
117.     In addition to the assistance provided to the Government through the
proposed operation, the Bank will support the Government's efforts to increase
private sector productivity through investment lending operations, technical
assistance, and economic and sector work to support reforms in trade,
agricultural, and financial sector policies. An industrial restructuring project,
a project to support privatization and restructuring of the industrial



- 41 -
development bank (IFI), and a possible export development project are intended
to support the trade reform. Projects for agricultural diversification,
agricultural technology transfer, and a possible agricultural credit operation
will be developed to support reforms in the agricultural sector. Bank
agricultural sector lending will also incorporate an important element of
environmental protection via land use and forestry components or stand alone
operations.
118.     All proposed operations which channel resources to the private sector
via the financial system (eg. industrial restructuring, IFI, agricultural credit,
and export development) will also support the financial sector development
strategy of the government, which emphasizes liberalization of financial markets
and enhanced competition among financial agents within a strong prudential
regulatory and supervisory framework. The Bank is in the process of agreeing with
the government on a financial sector framework which will set out the objectives,
instruments, and goals to be pursued in the financial sector during the current
administration. Individual credit operations will be developed within the context
established by the framework and will support specific improvements in the
efficiency of resource allocation in the financial system. Sector work on the
competitive structure of the financial system is planned to begin in FY90 and
be completed in FY91.
119.     A second major area of focus of the Bank program will be on enhancing
the productivity of public investments through reforms in public enterprises,
3upport for decentralization, and selected investments in infrastructure. The
proposed Public Sector Reform Loan will establish the basic policy framework
within which future investments in infrastructure will occur. Proposed lending
operations and sector work in the power sector, transport for trade, urban
development, and water supply and sanitation will deepen reforms and improve
the efficiency of public investments in these sectors, thereby facilitating the
supply response of the economy to the reforms of incentives discussed above.
120.     Poverty alleviation and human resources development is the third
element of the Bank's assistance strategy. The government has requested Bank
support for initiatives to improve the efficiency of the primary health care
and education systems, as well as continued support for its successful
initiatives in child nutrition and maternal care. The Bank has proposed that
the government select either health care or education as a sector of focus for
1990-1992. It will then define, together with the government, a program of sector
work and lending development which will lead to a substantially strengthened
lending pipeline in the sector. The process will be repeated for the other sector
in 1992-1994. By focusing our resources in one sector and taking a comprehensive
approach to policy analysis and project development, the Bank should enhance the
efficiency of  its operations  in human resources development and poverty
alleviation.
121.     The overall lending program for FY91-93 consists of ten loans in the
above sectors for an amount of about $1,500 million. With rapid implementation
of the policy reforms described above and improved project development the
program could increase to twelve loans with an average commitment level of US$600
million per year. Our lending strategy calls for a major focus on investment
programs and lines of credit for the private sector. No new quick-disbursing



- 42 -
operation would be contemplated under the proposed lending program. Experience
has shown that financing of a time-slice of subsectoral investment programs with
a sectoral policy focus (an intermediate approach that lies between a specific
investment and adjustment lending), although time consuming, has proven to be
more effective in Colombia than lending simply for specific investment projects.
This approach has already been initiated in the human resources and water supply
sectors. We plan gradually to incorporate this approach in other sectors such
as agriculture, highways and energy. Important institution building efforts will
continue to be incorporated in sectoral lending.
122.     There has been a marked decline in the size of the overall portfolio:
41 projects at end FY87, 31 at end FY89, and further declines are expected as
old loans come to their closing dates. This decline reflects reduced project
ler. iing from 1984 to 1987, while focusing on fast-disbursing and sectoral loans.
As fast-disbursing loans have been phased out, net disbursements declined and
b .ame negative in the second semester of CYSS. The Government has started to
Luild up its project preparation efforts and to remove obstacles to disbursements
of existing loans. A recently established system of high level program reviews
between the Government and the Bank has been designed as a vehicle to discuss
issues affecting ongoing loans and the policy agenda.
123.     Overall, project performance is good.  However, there are still some
problems affecting project implementation due to constraints on counterpart
funds and weaknesses in administration and management of procurement.  These
issues have been and will continue to be addressed through the Annual Country
Implementation Reviews, by supervision missions and by our Resident Mission.
Risk Analvsis
124.     IBRD exposure in Colombia, in terms of share in guaranteed debt, has
historically been high. In 1988 the ratio of IBRD debt service to exports was
9.7% and the IBRD share in MLT guaranteed debt was 27.9%. These large shares
are the result of several factors, among them: the sharp appreciation of non-
dollar currencies in the IBRD portfolio; the quick-disbursing loans in the period
1984-87 in support of the major readjustments in the Government's macroeconomic
policies; and the relatively low borrowing of the country from other sources.
The Bank's exposure in Colombia is expected to decrease significantly in the
coming years in the absence of quick disbursing operations, bringing exposure
levels in line with Bank guidelines by 1996. From an economic perspective, Bank
risk can be considered only moderate given the strong creditworthiness indicators
projected for the medium term. In addition, the country's demonstrated sound
and conservative macroeconomic and debt management, and its strong prospects for
export growth and for increased fiscal revenues, are factors which further
attenuate the risks of Bank's exposure in the country.
125.     IFC's involvement in Colombia is long-standing.   Between 1959 and
September 30, 1989, total gross commitments were US$239.3 million of which
US$195.1 million was loans and US$36.2 million equity.  IFC has recently made
intensive efforts to broaden its involvement.  Projects in cement, textiles,
petrochemicals, coal, and energy are currently under review.  Privatization and
expansion of a government-owned ship repair yard is also proceeding and corporate
credit lines with several large integrated groups are being developed. Advisory



- 43 -
services are under consideration as well as further assistance in development
of Colombia's capital markets. Although foreign private investment restrictions
were loosened in 1987 and the Government has indicated it would welcome joint
ventures and other forms of investment to develop the economy, IFC's operations
are still somewhat constrained by the time consuming regulatory framework
surrounding foreign investment, and security issues are seen as a growing
constraint.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
126.     IMF staff have maintained an active role and closely collaborated with
the Bank and the Government in the preparation of the operation, specifically
in assessing the appropriateness of the medium-term macroeconomic framework
proposed by the Government for undertaking the EMP. Arrangements have been agreed
to ensure IMF participation in the monitoring of progress in the implementation
of the macroeconomic program. These arrangements ensure that the very close and
effective collaboration between the Bank and the Fund in dealing with Colombia
will be maintained in the future.
PART VI   - RECOMMENDATION
127.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
November 26, 1990
Washington, D.C.



- 44 -
TABLE 1
Colotbia  rediuf-Torm Balance of P$Yrents - BASE CASE 1/
(in U.S. million)
----- -----    Prelim  Projected  -------------.-------.---
1985   1966    1967   1988   1989        1990   1991    1992   1993    1994
CURRENT ACCOUNT               -1596    S35    -50   -197        100       341    -27   -138        54     187
Trade Balnce                     109   2024    1461     827   1481       1874   1791    1493    1715    1678
Exports, f.o.b.              3782    5433   5255   5343   6030         6894    7532   7813   8654    9336
Coffee                      1702   2742    1633   1621    1477       1393    1493   IS60    1644    1761
Hydrocarbons                409    619   1342    988   1400          1962   2037   1690    1714   1461
Coal                         126    201    263    304    457          565    626    701       857   1007
Gold                        365    460    385       413    365        371    400    430    463    498
Nickel                       55      48      76    161      188       138    129    129    128        127
Other                       1125    1363   1556   1856   2144        2465    2847   3303   3848   4482
Imports f.o.b.               3673   3409   3794   4515   4549          5020   5741    6320   6939    7658
Nonpetroleun               3207   3279   3692   4368   4338          4770   5479    6067   6678   7361
Petroteum                   466    130    102    147    211           250    262    253    261        297
Services (net)                -2166  -2274  -2512   -1988  -2408        -2583   -2818   -2631   -2661   -2491
Credit                        1068   1364   1360   1653   1614         1693    1785    1899   2042    2207
Factor                      208    233    220    335    341           369    357    374    403    440
Vonfactor                    860   1131    1140    1319   1274       1324    1428   1525    1639    1767
Debit                         3234   3638   3872   3641   4023         4276   4603    4530   4703   4698
Factor 1/                  1918   1985   2194   2094   2360          2550   2701    2563    2614    2490
o01: public  nt.            877    964    1109    1154   1211        1244    1255    1282    1308    1317
private imt.           426    381      262    274    281         226    226    238    248        259
other (profit remit)   61S    640    823    666    868          1080    1220    1043   1058    914
Nonfactor                   1316   1653   1678    1-47   1663        1726   1902   1967   2089    2208
TransferS (net)                 461    785    1001    964   1028         1050   1000    1000    1000    1000
......*.................... .................. ..................................... _................ ...................... ....... ............_
CAPITAL ACCOUNT                 1863    825   -160    585        48       *41     -22      66     -91    -239
Public sector (ret)            1386    800   -179    616    408           199    -69       46      16   -157
Disbursements                19M   280?   1202   2247   2109          2033    1807    1737    1744    1643
Amortization                  646    928   1245    1627   1707         1858    1831    1671    1708    1780
Short-term (net)              239   -1079   -136       -4       5        25    -45      -20    -20      -20
Nonfinancial pvt sector (not)   495     560      86    -236   -325       -183     -18     -37    -168    -150
Direct investment (net)       1016    562     287    179    546         344     380     472    338    332
Long-term loan (net)          193    189    -59        45    -180       -11     -16   -103    -81       -39
Other (net) 2/                -714    -191    -142    -460   -692      -517   -382    -407   *426   -443
Financist pvt sector (net)      -18    -535    -68      205    -34        -57      65      St      61      68
........................._
OVERALL BALANCE                 267    1360   -211      388    149        300    -49      -72    -37      -52
Memorandum Item:
RESERVES                                                       3867      4167   4118   4046   4009   3957
Months of Imports (Goods and Services)                        5.4       5.4     4.8    4.5    4.1       3.8
Months of Imports (Goods)                                    10.2      10.0    8.6      7.7    6.9      6.2
1/ PAC base oit price assu.ptios, low increases in petroleum volumes.



- 45 -
TABLE 2
Coloebia: Wedium-Tem 8alance of Paymsnts - HIGH CASE 1/
(in U.S. millions)
--.. . . . -   -   -- Prelim  Projected .-.----- .---  .- .-.
1985    986    1987    1988    1989       1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
.._. .. ........................................................................................................
CURREOT ACCOUNT                -1596      535     -50    -197     100       341      -26     *10     244     588
trade Balance                    109    2024    1461      827    1481      1874    1815    1731    2116    2501
Exports, f.o.b.               3782    5433    5255    5343    6030       6894    7556    8051    9055   10159
Coffee                      1702    2742    1633    1621    1477       1393    1493    1560    1644    1761
Hydrocarbons                 409     619    1342      988    1400      1962    2061    1928    2115    2284
Coal                         126     201      263     304     457       565     626      701     857    1007
Gold                         365      460     385     413     365       371     400      430     463     498
Nickel                        55       48      76     161     188       138      129     129     128     127
Other                       1125    1363    1556    1856    2144       2465    2847    3303    3848    4482
Imports f.o.b.                3673    3409    3794    4515    4549       5020    5741    6320    6939    7658
Nonpetroleum                3207    3279    3692    4368    4338       4770    5479    6067    6678    7361
Petroleum                    466      130     102     147     211       250     262      253     261     297
Services (net)                 -2166   -2274   -2512   -1988   -2408      -2583   -2841   -2741   -2872   -2913
Credit                        1068    1364    1360    1653    1614       1693    1785    1899    2042    2207
Factor                       208     233      220     335     341       369     357      374     403     440
Nonfactor                    860    1131    1140    1319    1274       1324    1428    1525    1639    1767
Debit                         3234    3638    3872    3641    4023       4276    4626    4640    4914    5120
Factor 1/                   1918    1985    2194    2094    2360       2550    2724    2673    2825    2912
vi.: public int.             877      964    1109    1154    1211      1244    1255    1282    1308    1317
private int.            426     381      262     274     281       226     226      238     248     259
other (profit remit)   615      640     823      666     868      1080    1243    1153    1269    1336
lonfactor                   1316    1653    1678    1547    1663       1726    1902    1967    2089    2208
Transfers (net)                  461      785    1001     964    1028      1050    1000    1000    1000    1000
,................................................................................................................... 
CAPITAL ACCOUNT                 1863     825    -160      585      48       -41      -22      66     -91    -239
Public sector (net)             1386      800    -179     616     408       199    -69        46      16   -157
Disbursements                  1793    2807    1202    2247    2109      2033    1807    1737    1744    1643
Amortization                   646      928    1245    1627    1707       1858    1831    1671    1708    1780
Short-term (net)               239   -1079    -136       *4       5        25      -45     -20     -20     -20
Nonfinancial pvt sector (net)   495       560      86    -236    -325      -183      -18     -37    -168    -150
Direct investment (net)        1016     562     287     179     546       344      380     472     338     332
Long-term loan (net)            193     189     -59      45    -180       -11      -16    -103     -81     -39
Other (net) 2/                -714    -191    -142    -460    -692       -517   -382    -407    -426    -443
Financial pvt sector (net)       -18   -535       -68     205     -34       -57      65       57      61      68
,,,,,,,.........................,,,....... _.......... ..... ........ _.........................................................
OVERALL BALANCE                  267    1360    -211      388     149       300      -48      56     153     349
Memorandun Item:
RESERVES                                                         3867      4167    4119    4175    4328    4677
ionths of Inports (Goods and Services)                          5.4       5.4      4.8     4.6     4.4     4.4
Months of Imports (Goods)                                      10.2       10.0     8.6     7.9     7.5     7.3
1/ PAC base oil price asswuptios, high increases in petroteum volumes.



.~ ~~~~~~S                       Co .I >C.              >t %
th~~~~~~~r                                              to 
i;ft)                                                    e
0) t}        .       )
t}~~~~~~~~~t S;lot to .* to of 64
in                            v)Z   l     w tn  i vi rn in  '.
1 }    1: .t} tJ   .o t *40 *n  *n     I,#   S
0 ~   ~~~~~~ t      II (-1 :1        OD                   nt-1t
~~~~~~~~~~~n c;    I                         
go          t.;u r
{.           .                                                 x
st}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n   tv it                          nt
f .   n.     *)                                   f)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
l   ter)       I';       *t tdt       *  *f t  *  *@ * ~~~~~~~ tO
sD  *   )  -   >   * *   ;    t  $   *   N   n  0   rrt  rs  
.)                                             tj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
n*.                 *  W  t  *t *# *#          <~~~~~~V



- 47 -                                 ANX
PUBLIC SECTOR CONTR:3UTION TO FTNAL DEMDAN. 1981-1986
(:)
l              l                (AS Z CF PU'3L:C SEC-TO  FINAL CEMA!I;)
I   Pi3II      0             PUJDL'C             CAPITAL                ;:J
Y!AR           S_:^oa      I          AM:N.:STRAT:ON       FCRtA?ION            ..S:.
Y __A_R  _  ________C I           .                      ._ A_T_I__ ___ _I_I_____     __
198   I      15Z                       54.8:                41.1Z
1982  I      17.6Z                     53.82                42.1Z U                 '
3983  I      18.4: '                   52.7?                43.5Z                 3.2:
1a9    1     17.8a                     55.12                43.22                 1.7:
1935         13.1Z    I                52.6?                45.2X                 2.2:
1;86  I      16.3Z   I                 53.72                47.9Z                -:. I
Sour:e: :e;ar:amento Admin-.is:ra-vo Nacional de Estadisticas (DANE).



- 48 -
ANN:EX 3
SHARE OF PU3LIC SECTOR WAGES ;N TOTAL SALARY EARN:NGS ALD
PAR:CZ?ATZIN IN TOTAL PUB3IC SECTOR WAGES (2)
l  l             (AS 2 OF PUBi3' SECTOR WAGES)
l             l                                NON-
I             l                          F-NANC:AL           FINASC :-
P'tB3L:I             P 2' 3LSC           Pt'BL'C            Pr`3L :G
YE.AR3         SECTCR           A A F': STM.A::CN   ENTERPR:SES       INs.I-u-:3"S
l             j.
198;        30.42   I            69.52               22.0Z                8.5:
1982  j    31.7:   l             69.72               22.0Z                8.3:
1983  I    32.2:   1             70.0:               21.52                8.<
1984  I    33.4:   I              70.5:              2;.22                8.3:
1985  l     34.2:   I            69.12               21.62                9.4:
1986  1    33.92   I             70.2:               21.5Z                8.3:
Source: Departamer.to Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas (DANE).



- 49 -EXsSA.'E 4
PU3BLC SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO GROSS F'E3 CAPITAL FORWATION, 1981-1986
(2)
(AS I OF PUBLUC SECTOR CAP?TAL FOPy4::z=)
l   l                  NCNN-FIANCtAL         FNANC:A.L
   PU3':C    i     PTBLJC             P'J3LIC            P'U3':_
YEAR      f   SECOR    I   AflM:NISTRAT:ON            SECTOR             s Ez-S
198.  I     44.3:   I            52.5:              41.5Z               6.::
1982  I     48.92   I            44.1               50.6:               5.3:
1983        52.7Z   1            41.OZ              52.82               6.3:
198a  I     51.1Z                39.72              58.4?               1.9:
1985  I     52.42                30.02              69.7?               0.3:
1985  I     49.3Z   j            34.2:              63.5S               2.3:
Sour:e: Departamento Ad-ministrativo Nacional de Estadisticas (DANE).



- 50 -
ANNEX( 5
PUBLIC SECTOR PROOUCTION BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITY, 1981-1986
(AS PERCENT OF TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR PRODUCTION)
ACT:VITY                                  1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Agriculture, Forostry, Fish;ng            O.1X      0.21     0.2X      0.1%      6.11      O.11
Mining A Quarrying                       156.    14.5      16.01x    1.11    14.4X    14.91
Manufacturing                            14.6O    13.3X    12.3%    14.51    iS.6%    21.6%
Electricity, Ga&, Wster                   8.7%      9,T7     9.9%      9.8%    10.21    16.1%
Construction                              1.2%      1.3%     1.e6      1.8X      1.4%      1.2X
Restaurants, Hotels                       1.ex      1.3%     1.1%      1.21      1.2%      1.01
Transport, Storage, Coummunication        9.61      9.3%     8.91      8.SX      9.2X      8.51
Finance, Insurante, Real Estate           7.31      7.2%     8.7%      7.8X      8.7%      6.71
A Business Services
Community Services, Social &              S.4     68.6     65.91      5.7       5.31      S.1X
Personal Market Goods
Community Services, Social A             36.4%    37.31    35.SX    34.61    34.51    30.81
Personal Non-Morket Goods
Source: Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas (DANE).



- 51 -
ANNEX 6
COtPOSITION OF PUBLIC SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
BY TYPE OF ENTITIES AND NUMBER
r. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS
1)  Central
a)  Nation                                            28
2)  LocaL
a)  Departent:, :ntendance and Commissary             3Z
b)  Municipa.':y                                    10;6
TOTAL PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS                        1076
11. P>BtIC AUTORITTES
a)  Central Government omned                          89
b) Municipality-owned                                 84
c)  Depart:ent-ogned                                 235
d)  Social Security                                   55
TOTAL PUBLIC AUTHORITIES                             473
III.  UBIC FINANCrAL INSTITUTIONS
1)  National Public Enterprises                       45
2)  Department, Intendance and Comuissary
Public Enterprises                             127
3)  Municipal Public Enterprises                     101
TOTAL NO FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES                       273
IV.      PUCLIC lTNANCrAL INSTITUTIONS
1) Monotary Institutions                               9
* 2)  Insurance Company and Pension Funds                4
3)  National Financial Institutions                   15
4)  Department, Intendance and Commissary
Firiancial 'nstitutions                          19
5)  Municipal Financial Institutions                  23
TOTAL PUBLIC FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                   70
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR                              1892



COUSOLIATED DECENTRALIZEO SECTOR EXPE1NITURE AUN REVENUE, BY S0SECTIOR, 199
(As P.rcnt oet fOP)
CONSOLIDATEb
DECENTRALIZED                          AGRICULTAL                                          SOCIAL      OITHR
SECTOR       PiOJER  WATER SSkPLY     SECTOR   COWUUSICATIONS TRANSPORT    MINES   SECTORS    SECTORS
TOTAL REVE"UE                          Ma.x1         2.91          6.X          1.21          1.61         1.4X      6.8X       S.ax 8       I
Op.tioeael Revenue                   18.11         2.21          0.41         8.n1          1.21         .8OX      5.6X1      *.8        8.O1
Ceetret Gower_a t Trnet*re            1.CC         6.41X         *.$S X.1 O.61                           6.ex 7.OX            *.1 J.sO
Otber Ie..n                           1.6C         8x            O.11         S. Is         * .2X        *.11      6.3X       *Jx        063S
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                      14.31X        8.2            6X.6        1.2X          1.61         1.6X      6.71       0 3a       0.2S
Curroat Expenditur-                  1.61          2.1          06 31         I.11          0.69 0.8S              4.41       0.3X       0.2S
Capitol ENp.ndituro                  4.81          1. I          0.81         6.11 O16.                   1.81     1.a O.S1             6.OX
(DEFICIT)/SWLPLUS                     -3.9X         -6.0           a.6          8.OOX         O 6.        -O62X    -6.4X       O.JS        6. O
FINANCING                              4.9X          D.1           6. G.        0.6           6.8X         6.2X     6.4X        6."        0.61O
Not Ext.rnat FinancIng                S.9"         O.11 I.X1                  S." O.X1 *.3X                        6.6S       8.81 aS."
N"t Internal Credit.                 -8.1X.11                    6.61         S."           S."          6.91      6.OX       O.O.        O.OS 61
fODEX                                a. ax         0. 3X         40 0           Oi.* OX."               8,6          OX8      O."%       D."
Other                               -8.2           S.OX          6.0.        -4.1x           .x          8."       6.61."  0.6           6.0
Source: Pilm Fiaoclero del Sector Publico 1969-1998; Dieprtent, of PlesIng; lboplic of Celombio.



- 53 -
ANNEX 7-B
rU.AT          TUTU. I  13C.     ISM
(iWs mi l cns  Co:c-mbaa  Peal,
. %4  ~9S5  .33   .317  UV    Orl  IQ).
:$R*f1                        *5~I  4.3  68.4   31.  i2.5   7L4.  313  Z.8
Ueratlng IugL                 '2.4  56.3   3.3  .Q5.   s49.l  .8.J  3.8
loee  :ac                     3.1    '.3   5.5   '.3   !.3    2.1   t.3
3t ict:  'e1 :.s            30     7      7.3   3.0   0.0   0.3   0.0 ,
trmtws  i  NFE's               3.3   3.3   7,3  30    3.0   0.0   0.0
MUM    OITUt              11.3  *L  5).3  y.7   33.0  141.t 16C.4
:~   *Z eco,~r:~tai            3.3    3.    7.1   3.2   0.5   0.8   0.t
sterwt pay'sa                  3.i   7 S   '7.5   3.03     .3  122.7  :SI.T
3J  uita'.  Mt               6.4   '      .5 .t2.3  88.2  111.5  146.6
In aoshtac Mit               2.2   S.,   3.3   3.6  1?.7  11.2  0.0
3ttw    mit 1.Immitw           1.1   *       '.0    3.8   SJ.  19.0   S.?
_ni~Ifit t?UIfUfl to 3sMt    3.8           1.?1I.5        1.0      I. ?
tran.fpi to 'Pf                3.4   0.3   0.3   3.0   2.0    1.3   1.?
'ranfv  to loc. pu.            3.4   1.4   0.7   2.S   3.0   0.3   1.3
1i:I   C4     T 3.a             A.3   3t..  '2.3  S0.7   1.4  13.2  139.1
WtTN. RE                       6.0   0.83 s.8    .5  S1.1  24.3  37.
Ciwtal t7aufvI ft  9t
pvr _g                       0.2   7.3   3.3   2.2   4.0  12.2  tS.5
3u  c"vtalt rnw'                3.0   3.4   t.S   2.0   3.5  12.1  12.3
'rautw    fro     's           6.8   3.8   0.3   0.3  43.8   0.0   0.0
APTM. QPCT                    83.1 I31.3  .21.2  123.3  17T.2  m11.3  34.S
Fie  costal *ri               77.3  S7.6  110.6  118.3  188.3  24.2  3.3
3thv ettal .wa1tuww           5.2   4.2  :0.5   2.8   3.4   O.S   0.0
trafg?   to 4PE                0.0   7.3   J.1   2.2   4.3  32.2  3.8
?MAU 51US  3 OICT (-42.3  -.i.3   2.4  -8.?  -48.7 -124.4 -157.6
Fi<IC:NS                      *2.1  S3.3  73.4  68.8  '8.8  132.3  142.8
Extwul                        '0.0   4.1   60.8  40.1   6.5   39.7  1S6.4
3isoswrsi                  4'.4  61.?  95.0   9.5  122.? 2.8  24.3
Awrtzation                  -i.4  -i3.S  -32.4  48.4  -7.1 -107.8 -168.9
ou.tsuc                        6.1   *.i  15.S  13.0 -10.1   9.9  -44.8
1iaauuswft                   3.2  ;3.o   21.8  19.0  21.3  24.3 9.?
Aorti:at1on                 -4.1  -,.3   -3   -5.0  -38.3  IS.0  -64.S
6t pur>^" of 'A               .3  -4.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.0
ttwr                          -3.0   1.3  12.3  IS.7  12.3 J      .7  "'2.3
NEOW  tT:
rptu,ti   miii.             92.4  S3.3  84.3  !05.4  149.1  ;65.0  33.6
'7rwnns trt"ia (M            0.0   0.3    0.3   0.2   3.7   0.1   0.2
Exiiatu:m  WW (4)           73.2  100.4  :3.1  173.I   242.2 2.S  '22.8
Serviciog pum tin )    -13.8  -23.3  -t3.  -32.3  42.7  -37.S  -49.3
P,os de Snvd          d lnw  -1.8  -0.6  -1.1  -2.0  -1.8   -l.'  -2.2
:wv.   m4 y  iaoa(  -2.8  *3.6  -:1.4  -:2.4  i7.S  "8.8  -9.0
).racaa cim d  t-)    -11.4  -17.7  -17.7  -21.3  -31.3  -5.S  -71.3
Source:  Internat4onal  Monetaryi Fund



ANNEX 7-C
-54 -
COLCOEIA -           PUBLIC SECe'5  :Ef:::t
..........................................................................................................................
1989       W0     1991     1993    1993            1989      iso      1991     1992    '993
....     ....  .  ....     ....   .  ....          ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
eSittion pesos)                                    (as S of GOP)
t. OIC!NTRtALISO  WtNtl[S              -91.8  *'.3.3  *231.0    92.8   147.5               -0.60   *0.72    a0.s9       0.28    J.34
1.1 Etectric Sector                  -31.9   *E3..  *225.4  -182.6  .147.6              *0.21    -o.32    *0.88   .0.55   .O.Z4
1.2 Carecoi                          -22.4   *:5.9      -5.4    .4.4    -3.1            *0.15    *0.=8      0.02    O.01   *0.01
1.3 Ecopetrot                         16.8    65.6   203.5   383.7   338.0               0.11      0.33     0.79    1.15      0.78
1.4 teaect                             2.3    -5.6       1.2    22.6    62.5            -0.02   .0.03       0.00    0.07    0.14
1.5 fetre   edeottin                 -44.6  *1C0.6  *170.5   .96.4   *56.4              *0.29   -0.31    -0.66   -0.29    -0.13
1.6 Other                             -7.4   *23.1   -34.4   .30.1   .45.9              -0.05    *O.12    *0.13   -0.09    -0.11
2.  ATI"AL COFPRE FUS                  -17.5  -117.4   -83.6   -67.0   -34.5               *0.11    -0.59    -0.33    0.20   .0.08
3. IBATICOK   CENTRAL GCVUILNNT   -271.6  -279.2  *264.6  -*2.t  *142.6                    -1.77     1.41    -1.03   -0.83    -0.33
-  t A L                             -380.9  *539.6   579.2  -249.3   *29.6               -2.49     2.72    -2.26   -0.7n    -0.07
.., .,.....'T
OP  (biltfu   pasos)                  13,313  19,S34  25,605  33,315  43,231
Excheng  Rlate (period averag)           387       498      625      778      960
MDP MUSS *ltlfon)                     39,565  39,805  41,097  42,838  45,037
u.rt...................................................................................................................
t/ using priod evre    exchang  rat. a    without rest exchang  rate adjutmet.



SS  -                      ANNEX 8
Page I of 14
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Re: COLOMBIA - Public Sector Reform Program,
Sectoral Policy Document
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.    In the last four decades Colombia has had an economic performance marked
by stability and sustained growth. Its economy has grown by an average of 4.5%
per year and its prudent and gradual approach in its handling of economic affairs
has enabled the country to avoid the cyclical ups and downs seen in other
countries. Colombia has not had a single period of negative growth in recent
decades.
2.    The government recognizes that the country's future economic progress will
require increased productivity in the use of existing resources and investment,
in both the public and private sector. To this end, it has adopted a program
to modernize the Colombian economy. The program seeks a structural change from
the historical development model followed by Colombia to one of promoting an
economy open to international competition, higher efficiency coupled with a
reduced and more effective role, for the public sector, sectoral reforms aimed
at achieving greater economic efficiency and more efficient use, together with
an increment of, the resources required to improve human resource development
in the country.
3.    To achieve those objectives, the government has adopted and intends to
keep in effect policies designed to guarantee macroeconomic stability and, at
the same time, higher public and private savings.  The policies set for the
fiscal, monetary and exchange areas are consistent with the objective of
restoring economic growth levels to 5% to 6% per year, and gradually reducing
inflation while maintaining international reserves at adequate levels.
Public Sector Reform Proaram
4.    The Public Sector Reform Program constitutes a key element  in the
modernization of the economy.   The government has defined as its priority
objectives raising the productivity of public resources, ensuring efficient
supply of services complementary to other economic sectors, especially those
sectors related to the modernization, and eliminating the structural and
institutional elements that restrain competitive market forces and adversely
affect the efficient allocation and use of resources within the economy. The
Government will seek to achieve these objectives through:
(a)   Formulating explicit policies and executing actions consistent with
the macroeconomic objectives, aimed at rationalizing the state's role
and improving its operating efficiency;



- 56 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 14
(b)   Improving programming and budgeting of public expenditures, by both
the Central Government and the decentralized agencies;
(C)   Eliminating public monopolies, except for highly strategic reasons,
and replacing them with regulatory systems promoting private sector
participation and open competition, and restructuring of public
agencies to adapt their operations to the new sectoral conditions;
and
(d)   Privatizing assets whose control by the public sector is no longer
justified on the basis of clearly defined policy objectives.
To obtain these objectives, the government has started and intends to continue
developing public sector management reforms and deregulating economic activities.
Definition of policies to limit the role of the State and to allocate and use
resources more efficiently
5.    To rationalize the role of the state in the process of modernizing the
economy, the government has defined explicit policies regarding the role the
state will play in the economic process, in establishing prices for goods and
services, in determining public investment objectives and in extending subsidies.
It is the decision of the government to apply those policies consistently in the
allocation and use of public resources.
Role of the state in the economy
6.    The establishment and maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework,
the setting of clear incentives based on competition and equality of conditions
for the development of economic activities, and the definition of policies to
guarantee adequate distribution of income and satisfy the basic needs of the
poorest groups of the population constitute the fundamental objectives of the
state's involvement in the economic process.
7.    According to these priorities, the government will continue its policy of
confining its role in direct production of goods and services to those areas that
at present are considered to have strategic importance (oil, telecommunication
and basic public services). To eliminate inefficiencies stemming from the public
sector's monopoly in these areas, the government will foster private sector
participation and competition and apply economic efficiency criteria in
establishing prices and public investment policies. Likewise, the state will
concentrate its action on bettering the living conditions of the poorest groups.
8.    Prices of public sector goods and services.   The basic policy of the
government is for prices of public sector goods and services reflect criteria
of economic efficiency.   The application of this policy has as its basic
objectives ensuring sound fiscal performance by the public sector, obtaining an
adequate yield from public assets in sectors that pursue commercial objectives
and guaranteeing efficient allocation and use of economic resources.
9.    In the case of internationally tradable goods (except coffee), the domestic
consumer prices for those goods will be at least the same as international



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 14
prices. Prices could be above those levels whenever taxes are applied to those
goods. With respect to goods with domestic prices below the international level,
the Government will gradually close the gap between domestic and international
prices. In the case of nontradable goods, provided on conditions of natural
monopoly, the prices shall be set on the basis of long-term marginal cost. As
for services provided by public agencies not pursuing commercial objectives,
explicit policies to recover costs shall be established and applied aimed at
attaining economic efficiency.
10.   Public investment.   It is the government's objective to focus public
investment in developing human resources and the physical infrastructure that
complements the investment efforts of the private sector in productive areas.
In this sense, it is the policy of the government to refrain from undertaking
commercial projects that could be executed by the private sector under an
incentive structure designed to promote economic efficiency, except in very
qualified cases where strategic reasons may prevail.   The decision of the
government to foster private sector participation, both national and foreign,
in the petrochemicals sector constitutes a significant step in the implementation
of this policy. Within the context of the referenced policy, the Government will
only carry out infrastructure projects if they yield an adequate economic rate
of return and are consistent with the constraints defined in the macroeconomic
program.
11.  Programs for the poorest groups of the population will continue being a
priority objective of public investment.  Givan the institutional weaknesses
prevailing in the public sector's social area and the need to make social
investments more productive, the government will emphasize the use of market
mechanisms and direct community participation in executing health, education,
nutrition and low-income housing programs.
12.   Subsidy policy.  As part of the objectives designed to improve public
sector productivity, the government will rationalize the provision of subsidies
in order to eliminate distortions in the use of resources and the regressive
effects that some subsidies have on income distribution.   To that end, the
dismantling of several subsidies that do not pursue or are not effective in
attaining specific social or economic policies has been started. This is the
case of supply side subsidies that have been extended in the low-income housing
sector. The government will orient its subsidies to the poorest groups, making
sure that the objectives of the subsidy and its form, amount and beneficiaries
are adequately targeted and transparent.
Improvements in Public Sector Programming. Budgetino and Management
13.   The basic objectives the government is pursuing in this field are tos
(i) ensure consistency between macroeconomic policy objectives and the
performance of the public sector at the central and decentralized level;
(ii) streamline budget procedures to ensure greater efficiency in programming
and executing public expenditures; and (iii) rationalize the relations between
the Central Government and the decentralized agencies by establishing a
performance plan and management evaluation system.



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 14
14.   To these ends, the government has obtained the passage of a new budget
law. This law has made it possible to lay the foundation for substantial changes
in the structure of public expenditure programming and budgeting, and resolve
serious shortcomings and institutional gaps. The government is now implementing
institutional reforms stemming from the new law.  The following aspects are
worthy of mention:
(a)   Establishment of institutional mechanisms to formulate and execute
public sector financial oolicy
15.   In the past, the government lacked the institutional instruments to
formulate financial policy for the public sector and, at the same time, to
monitor in an effective manner compliance with those policies and their effects.
With the Macroeconomic Adjustment Program that went into effect in mid-1984, the
government began to develop the public sector financial control mechanisms to
monitor and evaluate, with some degree of certainty, the fiscal difficulties
faced by the Central Government and its decentralized agencies. Those mechanisms
operated in tandem with the existing institutional set-up and, although they made
an important contribution to the success of the stabilization policies, they were
not consistently adhered to by the decentralized agencies, thus limiting their
effectiveness especially as a medium-term financial programming mechanism. To
cover this institutional void, the new law established the Superior Fiscal Policy
Council (CONFIS), integrated by the principal economic authorities and two
sectoral ministers. CONFIS has the task of setting and enforcing the public
sector's financial policy. It has been operating regularly since February 1990
and has a highly qualified professional staff to assist it in formulating and
instrumenting policy.
16.   CONFIS prepares the public sector's financial plan.  This plan sets the
maximum levels of spending, investment and debt for the principal public sector
agencies and determines the levels of internal transfers within the decentralized
public sector.   Its principal objective is to ensure the consistency of the
sector's performance with the specific goals set in the macroeconomic program.
The government will develop this instrument and continue elaborating, from fiscal
1991 on, public sector financial plans that cover a period of no less than two
years and are rolling and being up-dated on a periodic basis. Also, they will
be consistent with the national development plan and constitute the foundation
for preparation of the annual investment plan, the national general budget and
the annual cash program. The financial plan, which to be compatible with the
macroeconomic objectives of the government, will seek gradual reduction of the
fiscal deficit by employing strict controls over current spending, improved tax
administration and more efficient prices for the goods and services produced by
the public sector.
(b)   Imiprovements in the Proarammina and Execution of Expenditures of
Agencies Deoendent on Central Government Resources
17.   In the past, the budget statute was a major source of rigidity in the
allocation of public resources and of inefficiency in the execution of public
expenditures. This was due mainly to statutory limitations to incorporate in
the budget revenues originating from borrowings and the complexity of procedures
for committing budget resources. Another restriction were the budget resource



_ 59 _                        ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 14
disbursement procedures. These procedures enabled the use of disbursements for
public investment as a tool for attaining short-term monetary goals.  These
budgetary rigidities affected mainly the physical and social infrastructure
sectors which have long been dependent on non-earmarked budgetary resources.
18.   The new budget law has put an end to the rigidities of the earlier budget
law. Under the new law, annual budgets may include all the activities programmed
for the period, and significant streamlining of procedures for committing and
disbursing budget resources is provided. The government will continue developing
the new budget rules with the objective of ensuring more efficient programming
and execution of public investment, including the elimination of all those
rigidities that stand between the programming of public spending and its
execution, streamlining the procedures for executing public expenditures and
providing more autonomy for public agencies within the programming system that
the Central Government has defined.
19.   To guarantee efficient allocation of public resources and an adequate
level of public investment execution, the government has attached major
importance to the establishing and prompt operation of the National Project
Bank.  This bank will be responsible for evaluating all investment projects
financed out of Central Government funds to ensure basic criteria of economic
return and technical viability.
(c)   Establishment of Institutional Mechanisms to Enable the Government
to Improve the Efficiency of Decentralized Public Entities.
20.   It has been a fundamental objective of the government to rationalize its
relations with the decentralized agencies to maximize their operational
efficiency.  One key element in the present performance of the decentralized
agencies has been the lack of an institutional mechanism for the government to
define their operational objectives and evaluate the management's performance.
In addition, the lack of specific regulations on the allocation of the profits
or surpluses generated by some public agencies has been an important cause of
rigidity in resource mobilization within the public sector. To fill these voids,
the government has given CONFIS the resporsibility for establishing and operating
a Performance Planning and Evaluation System (PPES) for the principal public
agencies. Furthermore, the new budget law has defined explicitly the Central
Government's ownership of the profits and surpluses generateQ by the
decentralized agencies and authorized CONFIS to reallocate those resources in
accordance with government priorities. The government will apply a coherent and
active policy of reallocating surpluses generated by the decentralized agencies
in accordance with its investment priorities.   It will allow agencies that
generate surpluses to keep the resources required to finance those investments
agreed with the government--consistent with a reasonable debt policy--and to
maintain accounting a id financial reserves consistent with the norm for the
industry or sector.
21.   The operation of the PPES constitutes a key element in the government's
strategy to ensure that the decentralized agencies act not only in line with
macroeconomic restrictions but also raise their levels of productivity and
efficiency. In this sense, the general objectives of the system are:



- 60--                       ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 14
(i)   Maximize the economic return of decentralized agencies by executing
the price, investment and subsidy policies referred to above, and
by developing management methods that ensure their efficient
operation. The government expects that the application of these
policies and methods will lead to a substantial improvement in the
financial returns of public enterprises and greater financial self-
sufficiency among the decentralized agencies providing goods and
services whose costs can be recovered or provided in commercial
terms;
(ii)   Rationalize the public sector's participation seeking to reduce its
role in areas that can be developed and operated by the private
sector under market conditions or incentive schemes aimed at
promoting economic efficiency.  The public sector will focus its
action on areas that pursue policy objectives that cannot be
addressed by the private sector;
(iii)   Adjust  the operations  of decentralized agencies to  incentive
structures that promote competition with the private sector in
equality of conditions.
22.   The PPES will seek to achieve these general objectives by defining the
strategic objectives for each agency, which shall be consistent with the
Government's sectoral policies and its investment and macroeconomic program.
The strategic objectives will be translated into operational terms by setting
performance targets for the agencies' management. These targets will enable
the evaluation of the public managers' performance in reaching the objectives
set by the government. The performance evaluation of public managers will be
linked to the application of an incentive system that promotes professional and
efficient management of the decentralized agencies. Initially this system will
be based on administrative sanctions for those public managers whose performance
falls short of the expected performance.  The system will be further defined
and implemented during the first quarter of next year.   In addition, the
government will seek in the next few months a legislative reform that would
enable it to link performance evaluation to economic incentives.
23.   The government will apply the PPES to ECOPETROL, TELECOM, ICT and HIMAT,
starting in January 1991; to COLPUERTOS, IDEMA, ICEL and COPELCA by mid-1991
and to SENA, ISA, CVC and ISS in early 1992. The aforementioned agencies have
been selected because of their fiscal impact and the government's priorities in
improving public expenditure efficiency. The government will extend the system
to all decentralized public sector agencies, both financial and nonfinancial,
that have fiscal relevance or a significant role in the provision of goods and
services.   In addition, the government could make applicable the PPES to
municipal or departmental entities that require Central Government guarantees
for their external borrowings.   To that end,  the government will  issue
regulations to include as a condition prior to providing guarantees for external
loans to departmental or municipal agencies, that these entities have entered
into a performance plan with CONFIS that assures the Central Government of their
creditworthiness and sound financial performance.



- 61 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 14
24.   The government is now in the final stages of preparing performance plans
for HIMAT and ICT.  it is expected that these plans will be signed in November
1990. The preparation of the performance plans for ECOPETROL and TELECOM is
upderway.  The objectives to be pursued under those plans have already been
defined.   In the case of ECOPETROL, the plan will seek:   (i) to define the
enterprise's 1991 targets on current and capital expenditures, debt and precise
criteria for surplus transfers to the Central Government; (ii) to define the
content of the investment plans; and (iii) to establish targets to increase the
operating productivity and financial profitability of the enterprise.   As a
medium-term objective, the plan will attempt to establish in 1991 a cost
accounting system to control effectively and systematically the efficiency of
the enterprise's operations and to serve as the foundation for defining its
corporate plans.   In the case of TELECOM, the plan will seek to define and
initiate a restructuring program aimed at ensuring commercial operation of the
services it provides and its adjustment to the new competitive scheme in the
sector.   The plan will likewise include the several elements that have been
defined for the case of ECOPETROL, including the development and initial
operation of a cost accounting system. It is the intention of the government
to sign these plans during the upcoming month of December so that they take
effect at the start of the next fiscal year.
(d)   Extending the administrative and operational autonomy of public
aaencies
25.   Along  with  the  institutional  changes,  the  government  intends  to
substantially increase the sphere of administrative autonomy provided to public
agencies to strengthen the managers' role in operating the agencies, and define
in clear terms their responsibilities in fulfilling the objectives and tasks
assigned to their agencies.   To that end, the government will limit its
intervention in managing the agencies to the following areas: (i) ensure that
the agencies' operations are consistent with macroeconomic constraints (financial
plan); (ii) define the strategic objectives and targets of each agency
(performance plan); (iii) designate the members f the boards of directors and
senior managers; (iv) evaluate the performance of public managers and apply the
corresponding incentives or sanctions (performance plan); and (v) define, in
cases where it is considered necessary, the price policies to be applied by the
agency.
26.   The government will take steps in the areas of personnel and procurement
of goods and services, which have a fundamental impact on the capacity of public
managers to administer their operations efficiently and to implement the
institutional adjustments defined in the respective performance plans.
27.   Personnel.  It is a priority interest of the government to seek a reduction
of operating expenses in the public sector, and that this process be accompanied
by effective measures to raise the productivity and efficiency of public
agencies. Besides the actions of this type that will be promoted through the
PPES, the government has decided to freeze in real terms the personnel
expenditures of public agencies in 1991.   The spending limits have been
established in aggregate terms and each agency has been given responsibility for
making whatever adjustments are needed in the area of personnel reduction and
reassignment. Furthermore, an incentive system has been established for public



- 62 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 14
managers allowing them to keep and reallocate, for whatever purposes they
consider appropriate, any savings generated in tb'd administration of their
agencies.   Likewise, in view of the need to rationalize personnel plants in
several agencies that will come undez the perfornance plan system, it is the
government's Intention to promote those processes to improve productivity and
efficiency of public sector agencies. The government will take steps to mitigate
the adverse social effects of these processes and seek to provide adequate
compensation to those persons affected by personnel reduction processes.
28.   Competitive bidding for public sector contracting of goods and services.
The regulations applied on competitive bidding in the public sector constitutes
a key element explaining the low efficiency levels prevailing among public sector
agencies. The various review and decision levels, the emphasis on procedural
and legal matters in evaluating p. posals, and the relatively low importance of
economic and technical aspects are several points behind the inefficiencies
generated by current rules and regulations.   It is the intention of the
government to change the rules that apply to public sector procurement. For this
purpose, it will submit a bill to Congress seeking a legislative reform during
the upcoming legislative session. The government has appointed P committee of
experts responsible for preparing the draft reform on the basis of the following
guidelines: (a) procurement decisions will not require approvals or analyses
other than -hose conducted by the management of the agency and the audit
authority in the normal process of controlling and auditing the agency; (b) the
evaluation of bids and qualification of bidders will be carried out basically
on the basis of the economic, technical and financial criteria established for
each case, thus, permitting latter clarification or rectification of any
procedural or legal questions that the bidders have not complied with; and (/-)
the objective of the rules should be exclusively to determine the procedures ard
criteria that guarantee effective competition in public sector contracting of
goods and services.   Peripheral questions, such as special rate systems to
protect national producers which exceed the protection levels in the general
tariff system, should not be part of the procurement regulations.
Higher Efficiency in Production of Public Services
29.   The priority objective of the government is to eliminate inefficiencies
in the allocation and use of resources stemming from public monopoly schemes or
restraints on competition in a number of economic sectors which have resulted
in the provision of low quality services at high cost and a negative impact on
the productivity of public assets and the general economy. The government will
promote sectoral reforms in ports, railroads, shipping, low-income housing,
telecommunications and agriculture marketing. The purpose of the reforms is to
eliminate restrictions to entry and development of a regulatory framework and
a structure of incentives based on competitive market mechanisms. As part of
these sectoral reforms, in those cases where it is considered advisable to retain
the state's operational presence, the corresponding public agencies will be
restructured in order to adjust them to the new sectoral framework based on
competition.
30.   Ports.  The government recently defined a reform strategy for the ports
nector that seeks to end the monopoly that COLPUERTOS has held in handling
general cargo, and to establish a regulatory framework for the sector that



- 63 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 14
promotes competition between public and private port operators.   The basic
elements of the strategy are the following:
(L)   Clear separation between regulatory and operating functions in the
sector. It is the intention of the government to strip COLPUERTOS
of the regulatory functions it is currently performing (including
tariffs, authorization of works in shipping term_-nals and regulation
of port operations) and to transfer those functions to the
appropriate government authorities;
(ii)   A new uniform tariff policy for port operators.  The government will
establish in the short-term a uniform tariff structure for port
operators to control monopolistic practices on those port services
where no competition has yet been developed. The structure will seek
to establish maximum rates based on economic efficiency.   When
conditions of competition have been established, a free tariff policy
will go into effect, to be applied indistinctly to public and private
operators;
(ii!)   A uniform policy and methodology for charging compensation for the
use of national assets of public use such as the seacoasts. The
government will develop the policy on the basis of economic concepts,
among them, scarcity of bays, their alternative uses and potential
for pollution. This policy will apply to both public and private
operators. It will promote the utilization of market mechanisms such
as competitive bidding in the allocation of temporary use of the
seacoasts;
(iv)   Establishment of a transparent mechanism for granting operating
licenses that takes into account the factors inherent to a decision
in this field, i.e., technical, shipping or port engineering,
environment, urban, regional, and tourism-related matters.   The
government will introduce competitive forces into the system of
concessions and mechanisms that promote efficient use of available
seacoasts;
(v) Restructuring of COLPUERTOS aimed at rationalizing its operations
and labor force to enable it to operate in an efficient manner under
the new sectoral framework.
31.   It is the intention of the government to implement the proposed reforms
as promptly as possible.   To that effect,  it will submit to the present
legislative session of Congress a draft law defining the bases for the regulatory
and institutional framework of this sector and giving the government the
necessary legal authorization for its development. At the same time, progress
is under way on engaging the technical assistance services needed to define
certain technical and economic aspects involved in preparing these regulations.
It is the intention of the government to complete the studies and the terms of
the regulatory and institutional framework in 1991. Finally, the government will
continue its negotiations with private investors who have received preliminary
authorization to operate in this sector, and will look for a expedient solution
of pending matters based on the policy objectives defined above.



- 64 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 14
32.   Railroads.  The government has undertaken a railroad sector reform policy
aimed at substantially improving the efficiency and quality of this service.
The reform has been started with the liquidation of the company Jerrocarriles
Nacionales de Colombia (FNC), which held the public monopoly of railroad
transport, and its replacement with a mixed structure in which the public and
private sectors participate on commercial terms.
33.   The government's main objective is to develop the railways sector on the
basis of its comparative advantages over other types of transport in order to
ensure efficient movement of goods at the lowest possible cost. It is the policy
of the government to promote the complementarity and competition among the
various transport modes.
34.   To avoid the inefficiencies that occurred in the past, the government will
focus its role in the railways sector on the following functions:
(i) definition, formulation and orientation of rail transport policy; (ii)
regulation and control of the railway sector; (iii) implementation, operation
and execution of investment in rail infrastructure; and (iv) provision of public
rail transport services in association with the private sector on strictly
commercial terms.
35.   Although the government will continue being responsible for  management
and operation of the national rail system, the company created for this purpose
(FERROVIAS) will carry out only those investments generating an adequate economic
rate of return and whose purpose is to meet the real operating needs of private
or mixed agents that provide or are expected to provide rail transport services
on commercial terms. To that end, the government will conduct an exhaustive
analysis of the investments program prepared by PERROVIAS to ensure these
criteria are met. This analysis will be carried out by qualified experts and
will be completed during the first half of 1991.
36.   The government will seek to make the operations of FERROVIAS financially
self-sustaining by charging tariffs that cover the operating, maintenance and
investment costs of the system. It will contract a study on the tariff system
to be implemented by FERROVIAS. The tariff system will be completed and put into
effect during the second half of 1991.
37.   In view of the serious deterioration of rail infrastructure and the need
to provide minimum operating conditions that are attractive to the private
sector, the government will contribute to the initial investment and operating
costs of JERROVIAS. That contribution will be limited to the amount of resources
needed to give the rail system the chance of making full use of its comparative
advantages under conditions of economic efficiency.
38.   FERROVIAS' personnel plant will be determined exclusively on the basis of
traffic volume and the need to provide security of railways operations. The
personnel plant will be revised based only on unavoidable operating requirements.
The maintenance, repair and expansion of the rail infrastructure will be carried
out through subcontracting services from private firms.



- 65 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 14
39.   Public rail transport services will be provided by companies on strictly
commercial terms.  It in the interest of the government to participate on a
minority basis in the ownership and management of these services and, eventually,
withdraw from the sector.
40.   Shipping.  The government started recently a process aimed at increasing
competition in the shipping sector by issuing Decree No. 501 of February 1990.
The decree reduced substantially the reserved cargo levels in effect for both
general and bulk cargo. The government will continue reducing the protection
that it has afforded to the national merchant marine to ensure significant
improvements in service quality and cost efficiency, and to provide the merchant
marine an adequate time framework for adjusting its operations to the new
conditions of competition in the sector.
41.   As a first step, the government will take actions aimed at improving
conditions of competition derived from the recent reforms. Consequently, it will
(i) eliminate the 80% remittance ceiling on shipping receipts by foreign vessels;
(ii) reduce the reserved quota for bulk cargo to a maximum of 5% of the total
of such imports; and (iii) streamline and rationalize the control mechanisms
established t, ensure compliance with the reserved cargo levels. over the medium
term, the gc rernment will define a strategy for the reform of the institutional
and regulatory system applicable to shipping in order to significantly improve
the level of competition in the sector. To that end, it will start as soon as
possible a study that examines alternative mechanisms aimed at achieving the said
objectives and, once the reform strategy is defined, will put it into effect in
accordance with the timetables that are established. As part of the strategy,
the government will reduce the percentage of general cargo r served to the
national merchant marine fleet.
42.   Low-income housing. The government has defined a low-income housing sector
reform program that seeks to significantly improve the productivity of public
resources invested in this sector by the rationalization of subsidies, the
removal of the burden of financing ICT operations that has been levied on the
financial sector and promoting an active role for the private sector, both
commercial and nonprofit, in building and financing low-income housing.
43.   The  basic  elements  of  the  sectoral  reform  strategy  consist  of:
(i) eliminating ICT's role in the construction of low-income housing and limiting
its role in the financing of housing to the channelling of resources to finance
housing programs developed by private or municipal entities aimed at family
groups with income levels below two minimum salaries. These resources will be
made available to the financial sector at the average deposit rate for housing
finance entities and intermediated by the financial sector in the terms of
prevailing in the market; (ii) reorient ICT's role preferentially towards the
technical promotion of housing projects and the administration of public
subsidies; (iii) establishing direct and transparent subsidies based on objective
and uniform criteria that will be applied consistently; (iv) eliminating
mandatory investments as a net source of financing for the sector and defining
a plan to end ICT liabilities with the financial sector; and (v) establishing
an incentive structure to encourage participation by the private sector and
nongovernmental organizations in sector operations. The government will maintain
credit subsidies for low-income housing targeted to families with incomes of up



- 66 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 12 of 14
to four minimum wages.   These subsidies will be provided through regulated
interest rates which will be positive in real terms. Subject to an improvement
of its fiscal capacity, the government will seek to eliminate the credit subsidy
element and channel all subsidies directly to housing beneficiaries.
44.   It is the intention of the government to complete the proposed reforms as
promptly as possible. To that end, it has submitted to Congress a draft law
seeking legislative authority to implement the various elements of the sector
reform. Furthermore, it has already undertaken some of the actions aimed at
restructuring ICT. These will be defined in the performance plan between ICT
and CONFIS.
45.   Telecommunications.  The government has made changes to the regulatory
framework for the telecommunications sector. The changes have been aimed at
improving competition in the provision of national long distance, cellular and,
under certain qualified circumstances, long distance international services
between TELECOM and the municipal telecommunications companies. The changes will
also allow the private sector to participate in providing certain value-added
services (publifax, telefax, electronic mail and others), and to divest TELECOM
of the regulating, planning and control functions it exercises in the
telecommunications sector.   The government will take all necessary steps to
promote the development of this new framework subject only to technical
constraints and the need to ensure an efficient development of the
telecommunications network. In this sense, it is a priority objective of the
government to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Communications as the
planning and regulatory body for the sector and to initiate a restructuring of
TELECOM that will enable this agency to operate on a commercial basis and enable
it to compete on an equal footing with municipal and private companies in the
different fields opened to competition in the new sectoral framework.
46.   Agricultural  marketing.    The  government  will  reform  the  current
agricultural marketing system.   The purpose of this reform is to allow, in
respect of those agricultural products which are currently subject to an import
monopoly, an active private sector role in the import and marketing of these
agricultural products, to replace the imports quota system by a flexible tariff
system and to revise current support price policies.   The latter will be
consistent with the new protection policy for national production based on
tariffs.
47.   In addition, efforts will be made to restructure the Instituto de Mercadeo
Agricola (IDEMA) to make its operations consistent with the new sector framework.
In this sense, the objectives of t.e performance plan set up for IDEMA will aim
at limiting IDEMA's action and enabling the private sector to be the principal
import agent. IDEMA will engage in import operations only in qualified cases
of market failure, regulation of monopolistic practices and official transactions
that cannot be executed by the private sector. In such operations, IDEMA will
operate under the same terms and conditions as the private sector.



- 67 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 13 of 14
Privatization of Public Assets
48.   The government has started the process of privatized public assets in two
sectors where a significant public sector presence is no longer warranted:
namely, the banking and industrial sectors.
49.   In banking, the state involvement early in the 1980s aimed at controlling
a crisis in that sector, led to the nationalization of five banking
establishments, accounting for almost one quarter of the assets of the national
bank system. The overcoming of the crisis, reflected in the adequate solvency,
profitability and capital base of the banking sector, has led the government to
begin a reorientation of its policy objectives to promote competition to enhance
resource allocation efficiency, reduce intermediation costs and improve the
sector's response to meet the economy's growing financial needs.
50.   The government has initiated important actions to facilitate investors'
entry to the sector. First, it has allowed the control of banking institutions
by foreign investors. Second, the government has undertaken the privatization
of nationalized banks following a timetable based on the particular conditions
of banks and prevailing market conditions. During this year, the government
sought purchase bids for the Banco de los Trabajadores, however, it did not
receive acceptable offers. The government intends to continue the privatization
process, seeking rectifications that may lead to a positive response from the
market. In this context, the government will amend the decree regulating the
process of privatization to make evaluations and the terms for awarding bids more
flexible. Based on the new regulatory framework, the government intends to put
up for sale in 1991 three of the nationalized banks.
51.   The government is aware of the problems it faces to privatize Banco de
Colombia and Banco del Estado derived from the financial and corporate problems
affecting these two establishments.   In the case of Banco del Estado, the
government will wait for the verdicts in the judicial processes against this
bank which, if adverse, would generate liabilities exceeding the bank's net
worth. In the case of Banco de Colombia, the Government will conduct a careful
study of the situation faced by this bank and set a clear strategy that is
consistent with its objective of reducing public involvement in the banking
sector. The initial steps of this strategy will be carried out in 1992.
52.   In relation to the industrial sector, the government defined a clear policy
providing IFI the role of promoting investments in the industrial sector and
providing risk capital aimed at playing a catalytic role in the financing of
industrial projects with an adequate economic and financial rate of return.
Consistent with that role, in 1988 the government defined a program aimed at
privatizing IFI's portfolio of mature investments and providing IFI the liquidity
to continue carrying out its basic investment promotion role. The government
intends to continue its sales of IFI's investments. To this effect, IPI will
develop during this calendar year a privatization program for the period 1991-
1992 that provides for the disposal of IFI companies which are suitable for sale
in the market. In addition to the privatization program, the government intends
to conduct a detailed study of ALCALIS de Colombia j.A. to define and implement
in the short run, subject to the completion of the corresponding studies, a
strategy to ensure the commercial viability of this company and prepare its



- 68 -                      ANNEX 8
Page 14 of 14
eventual transfer to the private sector.   The government will define this
strategy in 1991.
53.   In concluding,  the government has embarked on a comprehensive and
consistent program of public sector reform. This program is a key part of its
medium term strategy of modernizing the Colombian economy aimed at accelerating
economic growth by means of a better allocation and use of resources.  The
government hopes that the World Bank will join this effort and help the country
implement this strategy.
Very truly yours,
Rudolf Hommes
Minister of Finance and Public Credit



I9PORT AND EXPORT CAMO
I                                                         I                    |               SPECIALIZED PORIS
COLPUEDTOR SUED toRu                   |   PRIVATE WOCKS    |
FORT    PONT 
I                                                 SHARE   I             SHUEam        COVERAS   BOLIvAB    tRo"               93*35   I  NA!  A
VEAR   |   O/TUM    C/GCEN   STA.MARTA *jSILA   TOTAL       S    I    TOTAL       S    I (PETHOLEW)    (COAL)  (BANANA)   TOIAL         S   |       IOIAL
I     _      _     _      __I -                                                                                                       I   -  - _____
1900         2671      740        020    0a4    4621   44.7             4104    36.0             loll                 OW      list   IC.s          a0.9
39 1         2204      On         08       GM0   4091    36.5           4619    42.6             I6"1                 61i    1670   11.7           A06lf
19 2         2093      oe0        004      06     4026    42.8          4343    89.1             1028                 196    1623   16.1           10930
1968         2464      706        S80"    65      4126    31.9          6929    46.9             1942                 762 2125   21.1              1291b
1964         2094       746       642     4"S    8069    81.1           6198    47.5              81                 1935    2408    19.1          12201
s66"         2816      916        686      582    400    81.4           5518    81.0              946      2133       160    4440   29.9            14039
IC0          2296      704        064      414   4126    26.2           021a    8.6              40991     4169       604     9060   46.2           20466
1661         268       S"         724      46    4402    16.1           764    20.0              1082      6920      1011    10668   51.4           21b26
196 0        2648      816        182      461   4601    14.0           09s    20.6             1t112      9408      16o1    21283   08.4           88410
soot"9: S.ertmeet. of P..mlg. C_loi.                                                                                                                 ..
I,



- 70-
ANNEX 10
V-Ifrtw AN: rX-^, wAC     w3T CAR3  BY?W^  A!.'  ?R:'A:.- :CC:KS
YEAR           c .  C:?'-.:      :         ? R :'';A-:                  .
:a2:  -~'.   53.7       4654   46.3             899.
:w:  -:i_   47.5       345:9   52.5             85:
;an                  s :5   5:.5             43:3   48.4              a;6
:;933                 _:'2   ,:.               5;29   S9.3            O .S
:i34                  3:3    4Z.2              5793   63.2             9562
:w35                          45.5             5573   54.5            12233
as                  -l:s3  3;.7             6273   60.3             l4Sw
:937                 4_62   36.2             7838   63.3             1Z3':
_,;33                46:;^    41.6           6968   58.4             11929
Sc--:rce: :e-at=-e-.t c - . f .._.,C::.  



StlARE OF COLOMBIAN SHIPPING LINES IN TOTAL MARITIME TRANSPORT
BY TYPE OF CARGO AND AVERAGE PERCENTAGE FOR 1980-1986 PERIOD
(3)
SHIPS OF
FORE TON
(I)          (2)     COMPANIES                       TOTAL         TOTAL
COLOMBIAN    COLOMBIAN    ASSOCIATED          (4)        SHIPPING      FOREIGN
COMPANY      COMPANY           WIT"     FOREIGN   PROTECIED BY         OWNED
OWNED       LEASED     COLOMBIAN        OWNED       fLAG LAW      SHI'PING
TYPE OF CARGO                                     SHIPS         SHIPS     COMPANIES       SHIPS         (1*2*3)       (2*3*4)       TOTAL
A) TOTAL TRADE
AVERAGE ANNUAL TOTAL (METRIC TONS)          1,089,899    1,304,002        812,372   7,839,032       3,208,274    9,956,408  11,046,306
s                                             9.87         11.81           7.36       70.97          29.03         90.13      100.00
CENERAL CARCO                                 816,704       493,618       878,984   1,644,689       1,986,883    2,816,148   3,630,462
X                                              7.38         4.47           8.13       14.89           17.98        26.49        32.87
X                                             22.48        13.80          18.86       46.30           64.70        77.64       JOO.OO
BULK CARGO                                    274,698      810,428        136,389   8,194,443       1,220,411    7,140,268   7,414,864
X                                              2.49         7.34           1.23       68.08           11.06        84.46       87.13
x                                             3.70         10.93          1.83        83.64          18.48         98.30      100.00
B) IMPORTS
AVERACE ANNUAL TOTAL (METRIC TONS)            088,921    1,181,676        610,848   3,423,068       2,381,142    6,116,279   6,784,200
X                                             11.68        20.43           8.83       69.18           40.82        88.44       100.00
GENERAL CARGO                                 621,849      422,738        382,120     437,091       1,328,706    1,241,947   1,783,796
X                                              9.02         7.31           6.81        7.68           22.94        21.47       30.60
X                                             29.69        23.97          21.88       24.78           76.22        70.41      100.00
BUL( CARGO                                    147,072      768,839        128,628   2,986,987       1,034,431    3,873,332   4,020,404
X                                              2.64        13.12           2.22       61.82           17.88       68.98        89.60
X                                              3.88        18.87           3.20       74.27           26.73        98.34      100.00
C) EXPORTS                                       420977        122433        301727     4416974          046138      4840136     2601112
-1            0             1            1              a            a 
AVERACE ANNUAL TOTAL (METRIC TONS)            420,978       122,433       301,728   4,416,973         846,138    4,849,136   6,281,112
X                                              8.00         2.33           6.74       83.94           18.08        92.00      100.80
GENERAL CARGO                                 293,464       70,840        294,884   1,207,498        869,168    1,673,202   1,8688,h6
X                                              6.68         1.36           6.80       22.95          12.63         29.90       36.60
X                                             16.72         3.79          16.79       84.88          36.41         84.28      100.00
BtLK CARGO                                    127,623       61,693          8,883   3,288,476         186,980    3,280,933   3,394,468
X                                              2.42         0.98          0.13        80.98           3.63         82.10       84.60
X                                              3.76         1.62          0.20        94.62           6.48         98.24      100.00
Source: DIMAR.
_  _   _  ___   ____  _   _    . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-



- 72 -
A.NNEX 12
ITT's 1989-1990 Privatization ?rotr
 :er,:'se sold               Price obtaJ-ed               ZwI's share
(';S$ eq-wilalezz:5
Sofasa                          52.5                         49.7
C:AC                             0.008                        0.5
YOs:o-o::e                       0.008                        1.1
Cor4emas                           .61                        5.6
Papoecol                        100lQ00                     100.00
ZNCO.SA                          0.031                         -
?ospeboyraca                     0.020                        6.4
153.2
E^:er,r'ses ^ process o' sa'e
A. TI.FI s                                                      P rueblic :s -a:  IFI'say
affe:rJ,ts              es:4-ra:e of         share           asset va&.'e
total asset           (2)           Isles share
vanue                               USS ()
cSS ( )
R_-o C -a::               5.5 ::.             10.3                .;6
colclll-.ber              3.57 c.             15.7                .56
R..saralda                1.28 M.              4.2                .05
-espinal                  8.56 m.            32.4
.-atetol                   .58 ;.
A:CSA                      .42 M.            49                   .20
C:O.AS~_:                 3.36 m.            59.9                2.01
CZA                                          12.6
1.6 M.             40.7                 .65
23.21                                   4.04
3. Thr:.ogh dtrect
CA-SA                      .60 M             54.2                 .32
IN.-.T---SA                .10 m             15.0                 .1
.70 m             69.2                 .42



- 73 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
COzOeeA  CUB=. S. C OJt OR1N WaM
Technical Assistance Component
I.    OBJECTIVES
The technical assistance component of the loaz- will pursue the following
objectives:
(i)   assist in the preparation and implementation of performance plans
for public entities included in the PPES;
(ii)  support  the  Government offorts  to  strengthen  public  sector's
financial management and tho mouitoring of its operations;
(iii) assist in the technical, economic and legal work required to prepare,
define and implement reforms in the railways, telecommunications,
ports, shipping and agricultural marketing.
(iv) assist in the preparation of restructuring programs for public
entities which will operate in a competitive sector environment,
i.e., TELECOM, ICT, IDEXA and COLPUERTOS; and
(V)   assist in the definition of privatization/divestaoet strategies for
publicly-owned enterprises with complex corporate and sector
problems, i.e., Banco de Colombia and ALCALIS.
1I.   COMPONENTS
1.    PreDaration and rmolementation of Performance Plans
(i)   A global fund to finance the preparation of restructuring and
performance plans for public entities which are subjected to the PPES
and specific sector reform programs.
The fund would be managed by CONFIS and US$2.0 million will be
assigned to this activity.
(ii) A study for the establishment of a management cost accounting system
for ECOPETROL. The estimated cost of the study is US$0.5 million.
(iii) A restructuring plan for TELECOM, which would include the development
of a cost accounting system, review of its current tariff structures
and the review of TELECOM's managerial and corporate structure to
enable the company to operate on a commercial basis. The cost of
this program has been estimated at US$1.0 million.
(iv)  The development of an integrated sanagement information system for
rIXAT. The estimated cost - including the acquisition of hardware
and software for its operation - is estimated at USSO.9 million.



-74 -
ANNEX 13
Pa3e 2Co 
2.    Public Sector's Financial 4anagement and MonitorinQ
Study and development of an integrated financial system for public sector
operations. This system would link some pzrtial mooztoriag systems which
are operating in the public sector (DNP) and develor electronic information
systems for the main Directorates in the Ministry of Finance (Budget,
Treasury, Customs, Tax office and Public Credit). CONFIS would coordinate
the study and system implementation. The cost of the study and equipment
has been estia_ted at US5350,000.
3.    Preoaration and Imolementation of Sector Reforms
(i)   Assistance to the Communications Ministry to strengthen its planning
and regulatory role in the sector.  Estimated cost of studies,
assistance and equipment are US$300,000.
(ii)  Program of studies to define the institutional and regulatory
framework (tariff, compensation, licensing) for the ports sector.
Estimated cost of study is USS250,000.
(iii) Studies to define tariff system for the provision of rail
infrastructure services and to review the economic and technical
justification of the proposed investment program for rehabilitat:ag
the rail system. Cost of the study has :eon estimated at US$100,=CC
(iv)  A study to carry out an overall review of the shipping protection
system aimed at assessing the impact of the recent reduction of
quotas and other competition-oriented measures and develop
alternatives to the quota-based protection system. The cost of th_'s
study has been estimated at US$40,000.
(v)   A study aimed at defining the technical and economic work required
to implement the reforms proposed in the agricultural market-:;
sector, including the possible establishment of a system of variab.e
tariffs and price bands and the restructuring of IDEMA in line w;t:
the new diminished role to be played by the public sector. Estiaated
cost of this study is US$150,000.
4.    Definition of privatization/divestment strategies for special publicly-
owned enterprises.
(i)   A study for the restructuring of ALCALIS to enable its future
privatization. Estimated cost of the study is US$500,000.
(ii)  A study to define a strategy for privatization/divestment of Ba__-
de Colombia. Estimated cost of the study if US$1,100,000.
Total estimated cost of Technical Assistance
Proposed:                                         USS8.00 million
Proposed financing under Bank Loan:                     US$4.00 million
Proposed financing under IDE Loan:                      US$4.00 million



:OLO.SIA - PU8LIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                        PRiOR ACTION                              SECOND TRANCHE                           TNtRD TRNIRM
.____ ----------________ __ -- - ---- -  --__ - -- --   -  -_ - -- - - -- - - -- -- - - - -- - - - -- --- -.-   ------    -------_---_______________________________ -  -
t. Public Sector Reform Program
a.- Definition of a Public Sector  Letter of O volopepnt Policy containing       Maintenance of * macroeonomic frame-   Maintenanc, of a macroeconomic
tefors Program consisting of a      the basic policy objectives pursued by       work consistnt with objectives of        frmework consistent with the
clear policy framewori for the      the Govern t In the public sector,           the Ecomic Modernizotion Program.        objectives of the Ecopngic
operation of the public sector in  inclodiag definitions in the ar eo of                                                  Modernization Proram.
the areas of pricing, investment    pricing (cenomic pricing of public           Compliance with the policy objectives
nd public sector f;nannee  nd       public sector goods and services),           and programs Included in the Public      Compliance wIth the policy
mnaement; and the policy Nd         lnvestmt (fii-ting public *wctor             Sector RIfors Program described in       objectives and program  included
institutional reform objective      Imnvesamet in c_rciolly oriented            the Letter of Oelop_mt Policy.           In the Public Soetor Retorm
to be pured in areas Were the    projects sd  focus on poverty allevia-                                                   Progra described in the Letter
public sector currently ploys a     tin objectives)  d  menaget (per-                                                    of Oevelopesnt Policy.
dominant role.                      foime planning and evaluation eye-
tem) and the sector rform objectives to
improv efficiency in the allocation and
use of public oector rsources.
11. Public Sector Mano_g    t
Modernization
a.- Estsblishmsnt of a perfor-      Estbisohmnt by law of the Consejo            CONFIS has signed and mdo  effective    Implemetation of the PPES in
mance planning and  valuation       Superior do Politics Fiscal (CWOFIS)         PP. for CWPUTO, IDEMA, ICEL, end         accordnce with its objective,
*ystom (PPES) to modernize          ond of requirement that Central              CORELCA consistent with the objec-       including: (i) the evaluation of
management of public sector         Government approve all dacentralied          tives set forth for the PmS.  The        public sector managgrs included in   u
decentralized entities.  The        entities budgets.                            plan  for CMLPUERTOS *nd IDEMA *ill      the first-round FP. end application 'n
system will esteblish a trane-                                                   seak the restructuring of thes          of the management ihcentiv  schenme;
parent institutional channel for    I su nc  of regulations on COWIS,            entities to adjust their oporations      (i;) first-round and second-round
the relations betwe  the Goern-   including CONFIS' powsr to defdne macro        to the sector reforms In ports nd       PP. are being implemented in
ment and its decentralized          constraint  for decentralized sector         agricultural marketing described         accordance with th Ir objectives,
entities and will aim at bringing   operations and performne plans for           below. ICEL's and CORELCAOs plan        terms and targetn or remedial
public entities to wrds con-        Individual entities,                         wil s eek efficiency improvements.      action  have ben taken to ensure
m_rcially-oriented performance                                                                                           complTince,  nd (iii) CowlS has
and amrket-driven discipline.       CONFIS operations initiated, including      First round performanc  plano           sloned and made effective PPs for
approval of 199O Financiol Plan, defini-   are being implemented In accordance       SA, ISS. ISA end CNC cnasistent
tion of organizational and adeinistra-      *ith th Ir objectives, terms and         with the objectives set for the
tive srrangma_ta for the carrying out       tisetables or rm_dial actions            PPES.
of performance plan  and manegmnnt          bad ben taken to ensure
evaluation function end appointment of      complianc.
two senior advisers.
Signing and  ffectivenes of performance
plans for ICT and NIMAT consistent with
the objectiwv  at forth for the PMES.
UCT's plan sill consist of a major
restructuring effort to reduce public
sector's role in the financing and con-
struction of low-income housing sad to
Improve its financial and operational
performance. HIMAT's plan will seek to
strengthen cost recovery practices and                                                                            0 P
the transfer of the management of irri-                                                                           rn
gation districts to its beneficiaries. 



LIA - PUBLIC SECTOR RERM LM POLICY gA TX
ISSUES AND OSJECTIVm                        PaIOR ACTION                             SECN0D RANClE                          THID  RJAOIE
ogesat on strategic ebjective  ed
Zun ceponete of pweformce pla  for
E    TWRIOL and TELECOM. ECIPElROL's plan
sIll cotai the main targets in team
of awrint ad capital expeniature.
opeortonal surplue and ind,bt.dns,
Its inveetmeat plen, efficicy Improve-
ra.te (including devel gmet end
I  plemattioe of a cost accounting
atem) and pfitability targe.
TEUECOdn plan VIl contain rj
prepr tin and Initial implemets-
tios of e restructuring pln to adjust
TELECOd tro the nmm comptitive
nviromet, including tarriff rational-
antion, establishing cost accountino
nd labor reductions.
II  Privatizetion.
i.- Improve  competition and       Oecr  deining the ta rend procedures   Three ntionalized bank heve bee             Strategole and *tatiectory related
apitatliation of financial        for privatilinp nationalised beake isud   breoght to the peint of eolo, either   schedule of actions hbee bn
sector *nd liit role of           In  id-1989.                                individually or after mrging th_       defined for the privatization or
inwer _t in th  sector,                                                        baks In any combiation.                retructurtlng  aimed at th, total
Legislation allowing foreign majority                                              or partial divestment, of Eaneo de
ow"ership. of financial Institutions                                               Colombi  and of any remaining
approved end-989. One of the national-                                             nationalized bank brought to the
i ad beaks hae be   n brought to the                                              point of s*ei- for which no bide
point of sale,                                                                    have bee  *e eived.
Revised regulations allowing
oere flexibility to egsotiate terms
of award with potential Invetorr.
b.- Progrm of privotization        Total of 18 companies reprewsatlng an
of IFI a investmet portfollo,      estimated total value of f2e million
consistent with IFI e role as a    bew lcluded in IFIs 198WO-
minority rich capitalist with a    Privatization Protram.
clear x t policy for Its m*ture
inv-t--nt4 cd th        c pubic    Of the IB copaoso, a total of weven
ai- of limititn Its Involvement   hba  alredy be . a"ld to the privst.
In comercially oriented            eector (with an aggregato sole value of
operations                         about f114 mllilon), sad all of then
have bee  brought to the point of s4l. solo
,_
O1 -
*   ''                                                                        @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



COLOMBIA - PUILIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN POLICY MATRIX
ISSS AND OBJECTIVES                          PRIOR ACTION                             SECOND TRANCH                          THUDI TRAHM
Letter of Development Policy contan.n
the Govrn_ment'n co_tment to continue
privtiatiston of tFI'. portfolio, incluad-
1mg defintiton of a 1991-f2 Privetisatlon
Progrm that, *111 contain I.*0 remalning
matur  Invetmtnte *hieh can be bnougt
to the polnt of solo nd the deinition
of a satisfactory strategy for ALCALIS
not later then June let.
NV.- Private Sector Devlopment.
a.- Restructure railway sector by  Leoislatlon and regulations Issue
liquidating existing -Ampany,      proiding for liquidation of existing
...bto publiT and private Sector       pny and *etbliet of txo
operation on coomrcial basis and   separne   mnies that would allow
iIn-ateln   ovrnment transfers to   participation of prate   or.
the 'sctor (USS2 *T I I I on I n
IS) except for those equir   d      C_mercTal ooretional Nd financial
to mast labor termination lIabi    plan  for  ;etah ment of two n-
tlet  NWd Initial investment        ompanle completed and promotlonal
needs In track infrastrucure.       efforts to attrct private s*ctr
partiecpation underway. Liquldatlon of
existing company undry.
Letter of Development PolIcy wi ll
contains basic polleie  appileable to
the sector: (1) Government to lImit
Its tolo in tho sector to tho form#-
lotion of sector policy, sector
reulation, operation of the railways
infrastructure system and the provl-
*ton of trawport sorvicos In Joint
vetures with th, privae  sector on
comerclal basis; (11) limit public
sector Investment In the seor to
Infratructure isnts  hh arm
economIcally luatifld and mee ope-
rational requirements of transport
operator.; (Iii) pursue a tariff po-
11cy for FERROVAS that ensures Io1
financial autonomy In coerciol
It
o V.



COLOMBIA - PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                          PRIOR ACTION                               SECOND TRANCHE                            > RD TRANCHE
b.-Elinin.  public sector            Covernment has approved three privato          Definition of a restructuring program         Th- Coverncmnt has entablished
port monopoly in general cargo       ports to operate in the citieo of              for COLPUERTOS aimed at adjusting         the new institutional and regulatory
hondling and establishment of a      Ouonaventuran  Santa Marts and Cartagena.    its operations and functions to tho         framework of the port sector aimed
regulatory framework for the         These port. will eventually absorb most        new sector environment, including         at allowing free competition among
sector that wil! ensure entry to    of COLPlJERTO's bulk cargo handling             the financial and operationnl             among public and private operstors
the private sector and competi-       (repreosnting about 280  of COLPUERTO's       autonomy of the entity's terminals,       including a unitorm tariff regime,
tion among public and privote        current operating revenue) and, provided    (The PPo for COLPUUERTOs would               the compensation scheme for uns  of
fector port operators.               an appropriate regulatory framework is         include performance targets for tho       public resourcoe the licensing
et, will represent increased private          first year of implementation of           *ynteb, and tho inustitutional
sector participation and competition          restructuring plan.                       arrongements for reOulsting the
in tho provision of port services,                                                      sector.
The Government h>s dofined a sector                                                     Restructing program for COLPUERTOS
restructuring program to enable private                                                 is being Implemented in accordance
sector participation and competition In                                                 *ith its objectives,. trms and
tho sector which will include a uniform                                                 timetablo.
tariff policy for private sector
operators; a uniform compensation scheme
for the us of public sector resources
and facilities; total soparation of the
re ulatory and operational function with-
in the sector to ensureo  qual treatment for
for public and privato operators; a                                                                                          _
transparent system to grant operating                                                                                        co
licences; and the restructuring of
COLPUERTOS.
c.- Improve competition in           Decree has been issued amending present        Following short-term actions will        Definition of an action plan to
the shipping sector,                  shipping protection law by reducing           have been implemented to improve          reform tho institutional and
quoto assigned for national liners in         competitiveness and further dere-         regulatory froamwork of the shipping
bulk cargo from 601 to 10X of total bulk    gulate the sector: (i) reduction of         sector aimed at further improving
cargo and in general cargo from not less    reserve quote on bulk cargo to not          sector eompetition; and implemntn-
than 6ex to not moro then SOX of total        more than bl of total bulk imports;       tion of initiol actions Including
general corgo.                                (;i) elimination of remittance            the lowering of the reserved quota
ceiling of S0t of froight rates          on general import cargo to about
imposed on foreign liners; and           aeX of total 9gneral import cargo.
(ili) streamline reserve control
mechani ns.
o l*
41
o S>



COLOMBIA - PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN POLICY MATRIX
ISSUES AND OBJECTIVES                        PRIOR ACTION                              SECOND TRANCHE                           THIRD TRANCHE
d.- Reduce Government's rolo        The public housing agecy, ICT, has                                                    * Government impleu_ntation of the
in the production and financing     terminated force account operotions,                                                  min elements of the sector reform
of low-incom  housing, by lmprov-   Initiated eggre4iv  portfolio recupero-                                               stratogy: (i) eliminate ICT's role
ing tho Incentive structure for     tion and Improved credit policies.  In                                                as financior and constructor; (ii)
private sector participat;on,       addition, Govrnment has limited forced                                                establish a uoll-targetted and
making subsidios available in a      investment financing from insurnnce                                                  *fficient system of subsidies to
mnnner that Is transparent and      copanieo  and housing banks (representing                                              low-income beneficiarios through
complementary to the private        about S0X of ICT's forced invostment                                                  direct and transparent means; (iii)
sector's finncting and gradually    financing) to meet only ICT's d %t                                                    eliminate financial sector's forced
reduce forced investment financ-    service obligations with them  thus                                                   investments as a net source of
ing from financial sector.          reducing In real terms their net exposure,                                            housing financing and adopt a plan
for phasing-out ICT's liobilitie
The Government has defined a new sector                                              to tho financial sector; and (iv)
strategy aimed at rationalizing the                                                   stablish an incentive structure
granting of subsidies to low-income                                                  promoting private* ctor and NOO
benefiearies, eliminating tho public                                                 participation in the sector.
sector's role as financier and construc-
tor, and providing increased role in
sector operations to tho private sector,
NCO and territorial entities.
* - Eliminate public sector                                                                                               a    IDEMAs monopoly on *gricul-
monopoly in the agercultural                                                                                              turnl import. hoo been replaced by
makekting sector and tho devolop-                                                                                         a transparent and autoatic syste a
ment of a morket oriented regim-                                                                                           oabling the private sctor to
based on onrket competition and                                                                                           freely import agriculturol products
a tariff based protection system.                                                                                         and Import quotas have ben replaced
by a tariff-based protection system.
Note: At loest one of the third
tranche conditions designoted
with an asterix will hav, to be
complied at the time of the
second trenche release.
I0
to
Or
0 0



ANNFX 15
80 -                          Page 1 of 3
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1990)
------------_----__------------------------------------ ----------__--------__---------_--
Amount (less cancellations)
--------------------------------------
Loan or                                                 Disbursed
Credit   Fiscal                                     ------------------ Undis-
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose        Bank      IDA    bursed    Total
________________________________________________________________________________________
102 fully disbursed Loans and one IDA Credit         3,627.9     23.5             3,651.4
1953    1981 EPM             Playas Power           62.6                 6.4    69.0
2008     1981 EEEB           Guavio Hydropower      358.0                1.0   359.0
2174    1982 Colombia        Int Rural Devt II      35.2                17.8     53.0
2303     1983 ICA           Agric Res & Ext         56.8                 6.6    63.4
2349     1984 Carbocol       Coal Exploration        6.3                 1.5      7.8
2449     1984 EPM            Rio Grande Hultiputp    74.5               90.0   164.5
2453    1984 Fedecafe       Ag Diversification      44.5                 5.5    50.0
2470    1985 EMC            Cucuta Water/Sew         8.9                 9.6    18.5
2477     1985 B. de la Rep.  DFC IX                 84.6                 5.4    90.0
2512    1985 EAAB            Bogota Water IV        77.8                51.2   129.0
2611    1986 Cilombia        PUblic Health          12.5                16.3    28.8
2634     1986 EEEB          Bogota Dist II          63.6               107.4   171.0
2635    1986 Colpuertos      Port Rehab             19.1   -            23.7    42.8
2637     1986 EPM/B'quilla   Barranq'la Vater       16.5                 7.5    24.0
2667    1986 HIMAT           Irrigation II          34.6                79.4   114.0
2668     1986 Cavecinales    Rural Transport         56.4                5.6    62.0
2677    1986 Colombia        Trade & ag Sector     249.1                 0.9   250.0
2829    1987 Fondo Vial      2nd Ntl Hwy Sector     131.6               48.7   180.3
2889     1988 Colombia       Power SEctor Adj      225.0                75.0   300.0
2909     1988 Caja Agraria   Caja Agraria            3.2                11.8    15.0
2961     1988 BCH           WS & Waste Sector       15.0               135.0   150.0
3010    1989 Colombia       Ed Sector               10.0                90.0    100.0
3025    1989 B. de la Rep.  5th Sm Med Entp          0.0                80.0    80.0
3113    1990 Colombia        Sm-Scale Irrig          0.0                78.2    78.2
3157    1990 Fondo Vial     Rural Rds Sector II      2.0                53.0    55.0
3201    1990 Colombia       Comm Child Care & Nu    0.0                 24.0    24.0
3250    1991 Colombia       Rural Dev Invest         0.0                75.0    75.0
1,647.8     0.0    1,106.5  2,754.3
TOTAL                               5.275.7    23.5    1,106.5  6,405.7
Of which repaid                  2,298.5      8.7             2,307.2
total held by Bank & IDA           2,977.2     14.8             4,098.5
Amount sold                            51.0
Of which repaid                     51.0
Total undisbursed                                      1,106.5



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
- 81 -
B.  STATZMENT OF IFC !NVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1990)
Fiscal Yr      Obligor      Type of Business Loan       Equity       Total
(In millions of V.S. dollars)
1959      Laminas Caribe   Fibreboard         0.50                    0.50
1960165    nd.Al.Noel       Food&Food Proc.  1.98       o.bs          2.06
1961      Ervases Col.      Metal Cans        0.70                    0.70
196'168   Morfeo Prod.      Home Furn.        0.08      0.09          0.17
1961      Eiectromanuf.    Electrical Eq.   0.50                      0.50
1962/85   Corp.Fin.Col      Develp.Finance   6.00       2.02          8.02
62/63/85  Corp.Fin.Nac.    Develp.Finance   6.00        2.04          8.04
1963167   Comp.Col.         Textiles/Fibres  1.98       0.15          2.13
68/69     de Tejidos
1964/70   CorpFinCaldas    Develp.Finance               0.82          0.81
1964168   Forjas de Col.   Iron & Steel                 1.27          1.27
1966      Almviva           Warehousing       1.00                    1.00
1966      lad.Ganadera      Livestock         1.00      0.58          1.58
67/70174  Enka de Col       Textiles/Fibres 58.31       2.61         60.92
85i86/87
;969      CoDesar Hoteles  Tourism                      0.01          0.01
1969/73   Corp.Fin Norte   Dev. Finance                 0.45          0.45
1969/85   CorpFin Valle    Dev. Finance       6.00      0.43          6.43
1970      PromHotTurMed.   Tourism            0.23      0.11          0.35
1970/77   Pro Hoteles       Tourism           0.80      0.24          1.04
1973/75   CorpAhorrolVda.  Money/CapMrkt.               0.46          0.46
1974      Cemts.Boyaca      Cement & Const.  1.50                     1.50
1974      Cemts.Caribe      Cement & Const.  3.60                     3.60
(80tv-SPAWO lookw...s *



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 3
-82-
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Mareli 31. 1990)
Fiscal Yr      Obligor      Type of Business Loan       Equity       Total
(In millions of U.S ..ollars)
1976        MineraLasBrisas      Mining asbestos       6.00             6.00
1977        Promotora de         Utilities -Gas       23.00    2.00   2500
Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica
1977780     Colclirker           Cement                0.49    2.24    2.73
81/85/87    LeasingBolivar       Equipment Lsg.       14.02    0.20   14.22
1982        Frigor.Col           Cold Storage          1.00    0.58    1.58
1981182     Petrocol             Petro chem           12.15    3.86   16.01
1984/87     Carb.Caribe          Energy               14.78            14.78
1984        Cem.Rio Claro        Cement               22.47    5.00   27.47
1986        A.9an Fdo.Expl.      Energy                         5.00    5.00
1987        Prod.der.Sal         Chemicals             6.00    1.18    7.18
1987        PromGasoducto        Chemicals                      0.04    0.04
1988        Corp.Fin Valle       Dev. Finance)
1989        Corp.Fin Valle       Dev. Finance)         5.00    4.78    9.78
Total Gross Covuitments                  195.10   36.23  231.33
Less cancellations. termina-
tions, repayments and sales            122.91   17.64  140.55
Total commitments now heldItFC            72.20   18.58   90.78
Total undisbursed (including
participants)                            82.39    6.81   35.20
C"W,,U*ae,.a _S    S  e



IBRD 18370R
78                                          7A-                                         CUA.
JAMAACA  HAITI Dt O MICAN Wt
.         tl~~ON,>fW
COLOMBIA                                                                 12--NICAAA
PANAMA        VtNIZUILA ,         / U}
8CI'    hL  N,G%<(MGUtANA
BRAZIL
(                          f'titU  ~~~~~~~~~~~bt i /   A
PANAMA                                                                          s /                             oENnA '  I
' _                           /       \  /            p NC:lIE'\    CIT4-       nwro, I0% 8.  rn_ ....ns~ _ ~.-0;____
I   )    SANTAN~ ?" ~                                            4 ~ '
L-s ANT lRQU I A   ANTA R                                   ARAUCA                  VENEZUELA
-~~~                                  '." -7>"2 J>f9.----\ . .
,.      .                 ku..3                                                                                                         4.:-- <os.
'N.             CAQUETA"'N                        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AUA
OE         -'U  -1' >''CA  .      .       L                            1A
8A                           TOL fv                                           :                         -      
>~~~~ C A      Qz Ut                     E T A                  |,                -     
-  t  ( A UtC5A iJILAA                     -' - '            <                G AA  U  P E  S
-0 E,< C  U  AG U A                                                                                                                      t _  _.
UIbon Popula,on olf Cenler Town            
-~n~------5,000.000 persons                                                                   o.~..       50  100  150  200  250
2,000,000  3,000                                                              K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  ILOMETERS
.  ,SOOOO^. O 50         1,00                            AMAZONAS
v         5\2,00000                                                                                 '     BRAZIL
100 000
50,0                     0                                                                     B  R  A   Z  I  L
II    Nrtolonl CopItol                        t                         N             |
o    Cotes and Towns *.th PopylOtlon Over 40,000
Rve"n 9ghwOyS                             P   E    R    U              /      j
- -Deprtmnt, IntentWdenla, and coe tor  eori
_.  Iorfo' 000 bo.noaren                                    
-4-                                                                                             *- j4-
74-                                 -\                                 O       l
NOVEMBER 1988



