Page  1
February 20, 1992
Mr. Rudolf Hommes
Minister of Finance and
Public Credit
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Bogota, Colombia
Re:
Loan No. 3278-CO
(Public Sector Reform Loan)
Dear Mr. Minister:
1.
In connection with the Loan Agreement for the captioned Loan between Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
dated December 28, 1990 (the Loan Agreement), I am pleased to inform you that the Bank 
has "agreed to your request of introducing certain changes to the Loan Agreement, all 
related to the technical assistance program provided for under Section 3.03 of the 
Loan Agreement.  The changes are as follows:
(a)
The following introductory paragraph shall be inserted after the title of 
Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement (the Schedule) as paragraph 1 thereof.
"1.   Objectives
The Technical Assistance program will, in general, aim at assisting the 
Government in 
the analysis, formulation and implementation of policy and 
institutional reforms to improve  the productivity in the use of public sector assets 
and rationalizing the role of the public 
sector in the economy.
 
The specific objectives pursued under this program will be:
(i)
assist in the preparation and implementation of performance 
plans for 
public entities;
 
(ii)
support the Borrower's efforts to improve, its fiscal 
performance and 
to strengthen the public sector financial 
management and monitoring of 
its operations;
 
(iii)
assist in the preparation of the technical, economic and 
legal basis 
for the formulation and implementation of reforms in 
the railways, 
telecommunications, port, shipping and 
agricultural, marketing, and in 
other areas or fields dominated 
by the public sector that may be agreed 
from time to time 
between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to Section 
3.03 
(c) of this Loan Agreement;
(iv)
assist in the preparation of restructuring programs for 
public entities 
which will operate in a competitive sector 
environment; and
(v)
assist in the definition or implementation of 
privatization/divestment 
strategies for such publicly-owned 
enterprises as may be agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) 
of Section 3.03 of 
this Loan Agreement."
(b)
Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Schedule shall be hereby re-numbered as 
paragraphs 2, 3, 4, and 5 thereof, and further modified as follows:
"2.   Preparation and Implementation of Performance Plans
(i)
Technical assistance for purposes of the preparation of 
performance 
plans for decentralized entities which are 
subjected to the PPES and 
specific sector reform programs;
Page  2
(ii)
Technical assistance for the preparation of a restructuring 
program for 
the Borrower's Empresa Colombians de 
Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM), 
including the development 
of a cost accounting system, review of its 
current tariff 
structure and the review of its managerial and corporate 
structure to enable it operate on a commercial basis; and
(iii)
Development of a management information system for the 
Borrower's 
Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia y 
Adecuacion de Tierras (HIMAT).
3.
Improvements in the fiscal performance of the public sector and 
strengthening 
the latter's financial management and monitoring.
 
(i)
One or more studies on an integrated financial system for 
the public 
sector operations, and for the development of such 
system;
(ii)
One or more studies on the rationalization of public sector 
salaries 
and personnel costs; and
 
(iii)
One or more studies fur purposes of identifying, quantifying 
and 
analyzing the current levels and beneficiaries of 
subsidies granted by 
the Borrower.
 
4.
Preparation and implementation of sector reforms:
 
(i)
Technical Assistance to the Borrower's ministry of 
communications to 
strengthen its planning and regulatory role in 
the sector;
(ii)
Studies to define the institutional and regulatory 
framework, including 
tariff, compensation, and licensing for 
the ports sector;
(iii)
Studies to define the tariff system for the provision of 
rail 
infrastructure services and to review the economic 
and technical 
justification of the proposed investment 
program for the rehabilitation 
of the rail system;
 
(iv)
Overall review of the recently introduced reforms in the 
shipping 
sector so as to enable the assessment of their 
impact on the cost and 
quality of the shipping services 
rendered in Colombia; and
(v)
One or more studies aimed at defining the technical and 
economic work 
required to implement the reforms proposed in 
the agricultural 
marketing sector, including the possible 
establishment of a system of 
variable tariffs and price bonds 
and the restructuring of the 
Borrower's Instituto de 
Mercadeo Agricola (IDEMA).
5.
Definition of privatization/divestment strategies for specific 
public enterprises:
 
(i)
"A study top define a strategy for the 
privatization/divestment of the 
Borrower's Banco de Colombia."
 
(c)
A new paragraph 5 is hereby added t the Schedule, to read as follows:
 
"5 New Activities.  Such other activities as my be agreed from time to 
time between  the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of 
Section 3.01 of 
this Loan Agreement."
 
(d)
A new paragraph (c) is hereby added  to Section 3.01 of the Loan 
Agreement, to read as follows:
Page  3
"(c)  The Bank, at the request of the Borrower and acting through its 
representative 
under Section 7.01 of this Agreement or through the head of the 
Borrower's Departamento 
Nacional de Planificacion or the person or persons 
appointed thereby, may accept to include 
as part of the aforesaid Technical 
Assistance Program, studies, expert, advisers, training, 
provision of equipment or 
other technical assistance activities which, in the Bank's 
reasonable opinion, 
will further the objectives set forth in, or expanded pursuant to, the 
provisions of 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be changed from time to 
time or expanded pursuant to the provisions thereof.  Any such request shall be 
presented 
not later than June 30, 1993, in such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, 
and shall be deemed accepted, and the corresponding activity 
included in the aforesaid 
Schedule, by means and as of the day of the notice to 
be sent by the Bank for purposes of 
such acceptance."
 
2.
Additionally, the Bank, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement, is 
hereby extending the Closing Date to December 31, 1993.  This will enable additional 
disbursements for the aforesaid
technical assistance program.
If you agree with the changes referred to in 1. above, please sign, date and 
return to us on behalf of the Borrower the attached form of confirmation.  The 
amendments stipulated hereby shall become effective on the date on which said form is 
received by the Bank. 
Sincerely yours,
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Rudolf Hommes
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
