Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3278-CO
(Public Sector Reform Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 28, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3278-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 22, 1990 from the 
Borrower containing a preamble and a set of objectives, policies and actions designed 
to achieve reform of the Borrower's public sector (hereinafter all called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports and 
services required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General  Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities including the technical 
assistance 
program referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, that may be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the  accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."; and
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Performance Plan" means a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by 
the Borrower, through CONFIS (Consejo Superior de Politica Fiscal), and the respective 
Decentralized Entity (as
hereinafter defined), setting forth the corporate objectives, performance targets and 
criteria for evaluating public sector management in respect of such Decentralized 
Entity (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Decentralized Entity" means any entity or enterprise at the national 
level, with legal personality, owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the 
Borrower including public establishments (establecimientos publicos); industrial and 
commercial enterprises (empresas industriales y comerciales del Estado) and mixed 
capital enterprises (sociedades de economia mixta);
(f)
"First Tranche", "Second Tranche" and "Third Tranche" means the amount of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated, from time to time, to the Categories 1, 2, and 3, 
respectively, of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"PPES" means the Borrower's performance planning and evaluation system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the public decentralized sector as such system is 
described in the Program;
(i)
"fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31; and
(j)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco de la Republica.
 
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred and four 
million dollars ($304,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the technical assistance program 
described in Schedule 8 to this Agreement, open and maintain in dollars a special 
deposit account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, and the actions specified in Schedules 4, 5 and 6 to this Agreement and on 
maintaining the consistency between the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and 
the objectives of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment 
semiannual reports starting not later than March 31, 1991 through the Closing Date, on 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, and on maintaining the consistency 
between the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the objectives of the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the technical assistance program 
described in Schedule 8 to this Agreement and shall provide promptly as needed, all 
facilities, staff, funds and
other resources required for the execution thereof.
(b)
For purposes of carrying out the technical assistance program referred to 
in paragraph (a) above the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than (A) 
five months after the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account has been made 
under each of the First, Second and 
Third Tranche in respect of the records 
and accounts reflecting 
expenditures under Categories 1, 2 and 3, 
respectively, 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (B) four months after the 
end of 
each fiscal year in respect of the records and accounts reflecting 
Page  5
expenditures under Category 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a certified 
copy of the report of the respective audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the period in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in each of the 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during the period 
covered by the audit, together with 
the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that: (i) the Borrower shall maintain a macroeconomic policy 
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program; or (ii) the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 28, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
44473 MHACCO
Page  6
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Antonio Copello Faccini
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported goods           100,000,000        100% of foreign
    to be financed                              expenditures
    under the First
    Tranche
(2) Imported goods           100,000,000        100% of foreign
    to be financed                              expenditures
    under the Second
    Tranche
(3) Imported goods           100,000,000        100% of foreign
    to be financed                              expenditures
    under the Third
Page  7
    Tranche
(4) Consultant                 4,000,000        100%
    services, studies
    and equipment
    under the
    Technical Assis-
    tance Program
    described in
    Schedule 8 to
    this Agreement
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, and the term "Table" means 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112               -           Alcoholic beverages
      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
  containing tobacco substitutes)
      525               -           Radioactive and associated materials
      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
  stones, unworked or worked
      718               718.7       Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
  fuel elements (cartridges), non-
  irradiated for nuclear reactors
      897               897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
  group metals (except watches and 
  watch cases) and goldsmiths' or 
  silversmiths' wares (including set 
  gems)
      971               -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
  ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures, other than expenditures under Category 4 of the Table, in 
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$60,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after September 1, 1990.
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance; and
Page  8
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
4.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods, other 
than goods to be financed under Category 4 of the Table, estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
5.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category 2 of the Table unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and, at least, that all actions described in one of the 
three Parts of Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the macro-economic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
6.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category 3 of the Table unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in 
Schedule 4 and Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the remaining unfulfilled actions 
described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the macro-economic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
7.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs 5 or 6 above, the Bank 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the macro-economic policy framework of 
the Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the Program or that the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program or actions taken pursuant to Schedules 4, and/or 
5, and/or 6 to this Agreement, as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, within 90 
days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress, in carrying out 
of the Program, and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank or the macroeconomic policy 
framework remains not consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1996
      through March 15, 2007              
12,665,000
 
On September 15, 2007                     
12,705,000
 
Page  9
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
      more than fifteen years
      before maturity
More than fifteen years                         1.00
      before maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods, other than goods referred to in Part 3 
below, estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded 
through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following 
modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
Page  10
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business; 
or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods, other than goods referred to in Part 3 
below, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
such procedures shall have been found acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice; 
and
(c)
by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more than one supplier.
3.
Contracts for equipment under the Technical Assistance Program described in 
Schedule 8 to this Agreement, shall comply with the following procedures:
(a)
Contracts for equipment to cost in excess of $250,000 equivalent shall be 
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines. In the procurement of equipment in 
accordance with such procedures, equipment manufactured in Colombia may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto;
(b)
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less but 
more than $25,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two 
different countries eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less, may 
be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least 
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods made:
(a)
pursuant to Part 1 and Part 3 (a) of this Schedule:
 
(i)
no requirement of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made;
 
(ii)
no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
 
(iii)
no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
Page  11
(iv)
bids for goods shall be evaluated on a CIF basis; and
 
(v)
freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for 
purposes of bid 
evaluation.
 
(b)
pursuant to Parts 1, 2 and 3 of this Schedule:
 
(i)
awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
 
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in Part 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such 
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for 
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such 
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
6.
With respect to each contract referred to in Part 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as 
the Bank may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such 
contract.
7.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts referred 
to in Part 3 of this Schedule:
(a)
with respect to: (i) each contract for equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of over $300,000; and (ii) the first two contracts for equipment awarded 
under the procedures referred to in Part 3 (b) and (c) of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceeding paragraph 7 
(a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement.
8.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 6 and 7 (b) of this Schedule shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the 
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Performance Plans, consistent with the objectives of the PPES set forth in the 
Program, have been signed and become effective with respect to four Decentralized 
Entities which, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall be the following: (a) 
Puertos de Colombia (hereinafter COLPUERTOS); (b) Instituto Colombiano de 
Electrificacion (ICEL); (c) Corporacion Electrica del Atlantico (CORELCA); and (d) 
Instituto de Mercadeo Agricola (IDEMA). The Bank, at the request of the Borrower, may 
agree to substitute one or more of the Decentralized Entities referred above provided 
that the proposed Performance Plan or Plans for the proposed Decentralized Entity or 
Entities will, in the Bank's opinion, make an equivalent contribution in attaining the 
objectives of the PPES as set forth in the Program.
2.
Performance Plans for the Borrower's: (a) Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos 
Page  12
(ECOPETROL); (b) Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia y Adecuacion de Tierras (HIMAT); 
(c) Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT); and (d) Empresa Colombiana de 
Telecomunicaciones (TELECOM), are being implemented in accordance with their 
respective objectives, action timetables and other terms or, in the absence of such 
implementation, remedial action has been adopted.
3.
The Borrower shall have brought to the point of sale the Borrower's Banco de los 
Trabajadores, Banco del Comercio and Banco Tequendama, either individually or in 
merged form.
4.
The Borrower shall have approved a program for the restructuring of COLPUERTOS 
aimed at adjusting its functions and operations in a manner consistent with the 
elements of the reform strategy for the ports sector as defined in the Program.
5.
The Borrower shall have: (a) eliminated the ceiling imposed on foreign liners 
for remittance abroad of their freight generated revenues; (b) streamlined the 
mechanisms to control compliance with cargo reserve quotas (porcentajes de reserva de 
carga); and (c) reduced all cargo reserve quotas (porcentajes de reserva de carga) for 
bulk imports to a level of not more than five percent (5%) of total bulk imports.
SCHEDULE 5
Actions referred to in paragraph 6 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
1.
Performance Plans, consistent with the objectives of the PPES set forth in the 
Program, have been signed and become effective with respect to four Decentralized 
Entities which, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall be the following: (a) 
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA); (b) Instituto de Seguridad Social (ISS); (c) 
Interconexion Electrica S.A. (ISA); and (d) Corporacion Regional del Valle del Cauca 
(CVC). The Bank, at the request of the Borrower, may agree to substitute one or more 
of the Decentralized Entities referred above provided that the proposed Performance 
Plan or Plans for the proposed Decentralized Entity or Entities will, in the Bank's 
opinion, make an equivalent contribution in attaining the objectives of the PPES as 
set forth in the Program.
2.
Performance Plans referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement are being implemented in accordance with their respective objectives, action 
timetables and other terms
or, in the absence of such implementation, remedial action has been adopted.
3.
The Borrower shall be operating the PPES in accordance with its objectives 
including the evaluation of the public sector managers responsible for executing the 
Performance Plans referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
consistent application of the management incentive scheme defined for the PPES.
4.
The Borrower shall have: (i) defined an action plan to reform the institutional 
and regulatory framework of the shipping sector aimed at improving competition in the 
sector; and (ii) taken initial actions, in the implementation of such action plan, 
that substantially reduce the reserve cargo quota (porcentaje de reserva de carga) on 
general import cargo.
5.
The Borrower shall have approved strategies and related plans of action, for the 
privatization or restructuring with the aim of total or partial divestment, in respect 
of: (a) the Borrower's Banco de Colombia; and (b) those banks referred to in paragraph 
3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for which no acceptable bids were received.
6.
The program referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement is being 
implemented in accordance with its respective objectives and action timetables.
SCHEDULE 6
1.
The Borrower shall have restructured its ports sector in a manner consistent 
with the objectives set forth in the Program, such restructuring to include: (a) a 
uniform tariff regime for private sector operators; (b) a uniform criteria and 
methodology to determine the compensation for use of public resources and facilities; 
(c) the separation of the regulatory and operating functions within the sector; and 
Page  13
(d) a transparent system to grant licenses to port investors and/or operators.
2.
The Borrower shall have restructured its low-income housing sector pursuant to 
the objectives set forth in the Program. Such restructuring shall include: (a) 
elimination of the role of the Borrower's Instituto de Credito Territorial 
(hereinafter ICT) as constructor of low-income housing and limitation of ICT's role as 
financier of low-income housing to the transfer of budget resources, through the 
financial sector, to private and municipal entities promoting low-income housing 
projects, such transfer to be made in accordance with the terms set forth in the 
Program; (b) establishment of an incentive structure promoting private sector and NGO 
(non-governmental organizations) participation in the sector; (c) elimination of 
forced investments by the private financial sector as net financing source for ICT and 
definition of a plan for the payment of ICT's accrued liabilities to the public 
sector; and (d) establishment of a system to provide direct and targeted subsidies to 
low income beneficiaries.
3.
The Borrower shall have: (a) in respect of agricultural products currently 
reserved for exclusive import by the Borrower's Instituto de Mercadeo Agricola 
(IDEMA), established a transparent and automatic system to allow the private sector to 
freely import such products; and (b) converted the trade regime for agricultural 
imports into a tariff-based protection system.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Category" means Category (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Technical Assistance Program 
described in Schedule 8 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the Eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been  duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Page  14
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Category less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Technical 
Assistance Program described in Schedule 8 to this Agreement, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Category for the Technical Assistance Program 
described in Schedule 8 to this Agreement shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
onlyafter and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 8
Technical Assistance Program
1.
Preparation and Implementation of Performance Plans
 
(i)
Technical assistance for purposes of the preparation of 
Page  15
performance plans for 
decentralized entities which are subjected to 
the PPES and specific sector 
reform programs;
 
(ii)
A study for the establishment of a management cost accounting 
system for the 
Borrower's Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos 
(ECOPETROL);
(iii)
Technical assistance for the preparation of a restructuring 
program for the 
Borrower's Empresa Colombiana de Telecomunicaciones 
(TELECOM), including the 
development of a cost accounting system, 
review of its current tariff 
structure and the review of its 
managerial and corporate structure to enable 
it to operate on a 
commercial basis; and
(iv)
Development of a management information system for the Borrower's 
Instituto 
Colombiano de Hidrologia y Adecuacion de Tierra (HIMAT).
 
2.
Public sector's financial management and monitoring
 
(i)
A study of an integrated financial system for public sector 
operations and 
development of such system;
 
(ii)
A study on the rationalization of public sector salaries and 
personnel costs; 
and
 
(iii)
A study for purposes of identifying, quantifying and analyzing the 
current 
levels and beneficiaries of subsidies granted by the 
Government of Colombia.
3.
Preparation and implementation of sector reforms: 
 
(i)
Technical Assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of Communications 
to 
strengthen its planning and regulatory role in the sector;
 
(ii)
Studies to define the institutional and regulatory framework, 
including 
tariff, compensation, and licensing for the ports 
sector;
(iii)
Studies to define the tariff system for the provision of rail 
infrastructure 
services and to review the economic and technical 
justification of the 
proposed investment program for the 
rehabilitation of the rail system;
(iv)
A study to carry out an overall review of the shipping protection 
system aimed 
at assessing the impact of the recent reduction of cargo 
reserve quotas and 
develop alternatives to the quota-based protection 
system; and
(v)
A study aimed at defining the technical and economic work required 
to 
implement the reforms proposed in the agricultural marketing 
sector, including 
the possible establishment of a system of variable 
tariffs and price bonds and 
the restructuring of the Borrower's 
Instituto de Mercadeo Agricola (IDEMA).
4.
Definition of privatization/divestment strategies for specific public 
enterprises:
(i)
A study on the restructuring of the Borrower's Empresa Alcalis de 
Colombia 
(ALCALIS) to enable its future privatization; and
 
(ii)
A study to define a strategy for the privatization/divestment of 
the 
Borrower's Banco de Colombia.
Page  16
