Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7563-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 11.4 MILLION
(US$ 15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
December 18, 2002
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit         C6rdoba
US$1.00        =     C$14.56
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAA        Analytic and Advisory Services             IDF     Institutional Development Grant
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                IFC     International Finance Corporation
CEM        Country Economic Memorandum                IMF     International Monetary Fund
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment  INAA  Nicaraguan Institute of Water Supply
CONPES     National Economic and Social Planning Council      and Sewerage
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report      INTA    Nicaraguan Institute for Agricultural
CPPR       Country Portfolio Performance Review               Technology
CPI        Consumer Price Index                       LSMSs Living Standards Measurement Survey
DGA        Customs Administration                     MDG     Millennium Development Goals
DGI        Domestic Tax Administration                MIGA    Multilateral Investment Guarantee
EFA        Education for All                                  Agency
ENEL       Nicaraguan Power Company                   MINSA Ministry of Health
ENITEL     Nicaraguan Telecommunications Company      MOP     Memorandum of the President
FAITAN     Competitive Fund for Agricultural Services  NGO    Non Governmental Organization
FIAS       Foreign Investment Advisory Service        PA      Poverty Assessment
FISE       Emergency Social Investment Fund           PER     Public Expenditure Review
FITEL      Telecom Investment Fund                    PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
FODIEN     Rural Electrification Fund                 PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
FONDEM     Financial Transfer Mechanism               PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FUNICA     Technology and Forestry Development        PSIA    Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
Foundation                                 PSAC    Programmatic Structural Adjustment
FSS        Supplementary Social Fund                          Credit
FTI        Fast Track Initiative                      SIGFA   Integrated System for Financial
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                             Management and Auditing
HIPC       Highly Indebted Poor Countries             SMP     Staff Monitored Program
IDA        International Development Association      SNIP    National System of Public Investment
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
Vice President:       David de Ferranti
Country Director:     Jane Armitage
Sector Director:      Ernesto May
Task Manager:         Ulrich Lachler



Nicaragua - PSAC                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
(December 16, 2002)
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION                                                                    I
II. RECENT ECONOMC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN                                    2
POVERTY REDUCTION
A. Economic Performance ..............  ................................................  2
B. Poverty Reduction ................... ...........................................  4
III. NICARAGUA'S GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY                             7
AND AREAS FOR WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A. The Government's Enhanced Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper  .........  7
B. The Proposed Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) ........ ..........  7
C. First Pillar - Broad-Based Economic Growth and Structural Reforrn ........ .........  9
D. Second Pillar - Greater and Better Investment in Human Capital .....................  12
E. Third Pillar - Better Protection for Vulnerable Groups ............ ......................  16
F. Fourth Pillar - Good Governance and Institutional Development ........ .............  17
G.  Cross-Cutting  Themes  ..............................................................  20
IV. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY                                                     20
A. The World Bank Group ...............................................................  21
B. Coordination with the IMF .............................................................  22
C. Coordination with the IDB and other Donors .................. ...........................  22
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                                            23
A. Reform Measures and Actions to be Taken Prior to Board Presentation..          23
B. Implementation and Monitoring .............................................................  25
C. Credit Administration ..............................................................  25
D. Benefits and Risks ..............................................................  27
VI. RECOMENDATIONS ..............................................................  28
ANNEXES:
A. Policy Matrix - Government Reform Strategy and Progress Indicators
B. Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        I
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Nicaragua has requested an International Development
Association (IDA) Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) to support
implementation of its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which was completed
last year, following an extensive nation-wide consultation process. The PRSP was
presented to IDA's Board in September 2001. Since then, and following the installation
of a new Nicaraguan administration in January 2002, a PRSP Progress Report has been
prepared by the Government and was presented to the Board in December 2002, together
with the IDA-IMF Joint Staff Assessment (JSA). The Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua, which is based on the PRSP and its Progress Report was
recently completed and is being presented to IDA's Board together with this first PSAC
operation. It should be noted, too, that the IMF recently concluded a Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with Nicaragua, which was presented to its
Board in December 2002.
2.    The program of actions supported by the PSAC have been the subject of ongoing
discussions between the Government, IDA, IDB and the IMF over the past year, in the
context of PRGF preparation and the HIPC completion point conditions. The policy
measures included in the PSAC (and the possible two additional adjustment operations
contemplated in the matrix) derive from the medium-term development framework laid
out in the PRSP/PRSP Progress Report, the recommendations contained in IDA's FY02
Public Expenditure Review (PER) and FY01 Poverty Assessment (PA), and the core
findings of ongoing joint IDA-IDB fiduciary work. The PSAC is thus expected to help
address some of the key structural obstacles to poverty reduction in Nicaragua. It will
also assist Nicaragua with the urgent need to strengthen its depleted international
reserves position, meet the macroeconomic targets agreed with the IMF, and help reduce
the country's vulnerability to a possible balance of payments crisis.
3.    In parallel with moving ahead on the PSAC, and in line with the strategy laid out
in the CAS, the Nicaraguan Government and IDA are working towards putting in place
the pre-conditions for a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) operation(s). As
indicated in the CAS, this would involve, inter alia, further strengthening the public
sector's expenditure management and fiduciary controls per the recommendations of the
PER, CFAA and CPAR. As the implementation of recommendations from these analyses
advances, future adjustment lending to Nicaragua in support of the PRSP would take the
form of a series of PRSCs. In addition, work on a Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) and a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA), both scheduled for FY04,
would help inform the design of a possible PRSC. An eventual shift to the PRSC
instrument is seen as desirable by both the Nicaraguan Authorities and IDA as it would:
(i) allow for a larger proportion of IDA resources to be channeled to Nicaragua in the



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                         2
form of budgetary support for a comprehensive set of poverty reducing programs; (ii)
mobilize additional quick-disbursing budgetary support from bilateral partners who have
expressed willingness to cofmance a PRSC; and (iii) increase harmonization among
Nicaragua's external partners around a government-led program, thereby reducing
pressure on Nicaragua's limited institutional capacity for program/project management.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS IN POVERTY
REDUCTION
A. Economic Performance
4.    Following a decade of economic and political disarray in the 1980s, Nicaragua
has advanced significantly in restoring a stable, private sector-led, market economy.
Hyperinflation was halted in 1991 and economic growth reemerged in 1994. Trade
barriers were progressively lowered to open up the economy, FDI increased until 1999
from minimal levels in the early 1990s, and by 1997, private investors overtook the
public sector as the main source of capital accumulation. The oversized public sector
inherited in 1990 was reduced through major contractions in the public sector labor force,
cuts in public expenditures and the privatization or closure of most state-owned
enterprises. Other reforms included the modernization of financial sector legislation and
prudential norms, closure of all state-owned commercial banks, privatization of public
power and telecommunications utilities, strengthening of regulatory agencies for public
services, restructuring of the public sector, initiation of a comprehensive pension system
reform, and reforms in public administration through the creation of a single treasury
account (Caja Unica) and introduction of a modem financial management system. These
measures were accompanied by the creation of various social funds, most importantly the
Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE), to direct resources to the poor, and steps to
reform the social sectors, particularly health and education, to improve the quality of
services within a highly constrained budget. As. a result of these efforts, significant
progress has been made in reducing many of the most visible structural constraints on
economic growth and development. A number of structural issues remain to be
addressed, however. These are well-recognized by Government and are discussed in
Section III below, which describes Government priorities as reflected in the PRSP.
5.    By 1997-98, the Nicaraguan Government, having accomplished the structural
reforms described above, was well-advanced in the process of restoring fiscal discipline,
rebuilding an adequate reserves cushion and reducing the country's dependence on
foreign aid. This process received support from the IMF, via a 3-year PRGF arrangement
which was initiated in March 1998, and by other partners including IDA . In October
1998, however, the process of fiscal consolidation was abruptly interrupted by the advent
of hurricane Mitch. Fortunately, Nicaragua was able to rebound quickly from the
physical damage caused by the hurricane, due in large part to the massive inflow of
foreign aid that came in response. In addition, as one of the world's most indebted
countries, Nicaragua was declared eligible for HIPC relief in 1999, and reached the HIPC
Decision Point in December 2000. At the time, expectations were that the Government



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       3
would negotiate a 3d year PRGF arrangement with the IMF for 2001 and that the HIPC
Completion Point could be reached by late 2002.
6.    However, as the post-Mitch boom came to an end in 2001, economic activity
slowed substantially, resulting in large fiscal deficits and a weakened international
reserve position. The economic and monetary situation was further aggravated by the
fraud-induced failures of several major banks, which had to be intervened, forcing the
Central Bank to issue domestic debt to avoid a run on deposits. The government proved
unable to take the necessary steps to correct the growing imbalances in the run-up to the
November 2001 Presidential Election, and the 3 year arrangement under the PRGF was
abandoned. A less demanding Staff-Monitored Program (SMP) was agreed with the IMF
for the period June-December 2001. But even that program was not complied with, and
most of the agreed targets were missed by wide margins. As a result, the projected HIPC
Completion Point date slipped into 2003.
7.    The fiscal indiscipline of 2001, combined with external price shocks (oil, coffee),
exacerbated Nicaragua's already-large macroeconomic imbalances. The most pressing
imbalances in the short- to medium- term are the huge fiscal deficit and the large public
debt (Table 1). Another imbalance that stands out is the external deficit - which reflects
both the fiscal deficit (which is beginning to be addressed) and the massive aid inflows to
Nicaragua. These aid inflows have propped up the real exchange rate, resulting in a
"Dutch Disease" phenomenon characterized by extremely high domestic absorption rates,
which may have dragged down the country's competitiveness. The adverse impact of an
appreciated real exchange rate on growth is undoubtedly offset to some degree by the
competitiveness-enhancing impact of aid-financed capital investments. However, the
precise degree to which competitiveness is in fact enhanced depends critically on the
efficiency of donor assistance - an issue which should receive increasing attention in
coming years alongside other pressing issues including the large fiscal deficit and high
debt.
8.    Since taking office in early 2002, The Bolafnos administration has begun to
address the key macroeconomic issues discussed above. It entered into discussions with
the IMF on a new three-year PRGF arrangement and an agreement was reached towards
the end of the year. The PRGF, which was approved by the IMF Board last December,
envisages a substantial fiscal adjustment and a significant reduction in the exchange-rate
indexed stock of domestic central bank debt. These adjustments are planned to take place
through a comprehensive tax reform, an amended budget for 2002 and a program to
recover assets of previously intervened banks. The measures are designed to put
Nicaragua's fiscal balances on a sustainable path, achieving primary surpluses in the
latter half of the decade.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                                    4
Table 1: Nicaragua - Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1994-2001
Ave.                       Prelim. Preiiin.
1994-96    1997  1998   1999   2000   2001
percentages
Real GDP growth                              4.1    5.1    4.1    7.4    5.5   3.1
Inflation rate (CPI, e.o.p.)                11.9    7.3   18.5    7.2   6.6    4.7
Unemployment Rate                            16.7  14.3   13.2   10.7    9.9
annual percentage change
Exports, f.o.b.                             36.1   23.4   -0.6   -4.9   18.3  -8.1
Export volume                             22.2   22.6   -2.3    9.3   15.1   7.3
Imports, f.o.b..                             16.2  30.6    0.9   23.1   -3.2  -1.1
Import volume                              12.4  33.0    8.6   15.9   -9.7   3.1
Terns of Trade ( - = deterioration)          8.9    6.8    7.7  -19.1   -4.0  -11.2
Real Eff. Exchange Rate; e.o.p. (- = deprec.)  -5.2  3.5   2.0    1.6    6.0  -0.6
Percent of GDP
Trade Balance                               -25.6  -40.4  -39.2  -52.3  -41.4  -41.4
Current Account Balance                    -44.1  -39.8  -37.2  -47.9  -38.2  -37.7
Current Account Balance (excluding interest)  -19.0  -29.1  -26.9  -37.7  -28.0  -26.4
Public sector balance (before grants)      -14.2   -9.7   -7.4  -15.7  -15.4  -21.0
Grants                                    7.5    5.2    3.8    8.7    7.3    6.3
Public sector balance (after grants)        -6.7   -4.5   -3.6   -7.0   -8.1  -14.7
o/w Central bank profits                  -0.2  -0.5   -3.3   -1.7   -1.5   -2.0
Gross domestic investment                   24.7   30.5   33.8   43.3   34.9   30.4
Public                                     15.7   13.7   13.0   21.1   19.0  16.2
Private                                     8.9   16.8   20.8   22.2  15.9   14.2
National savings                             -4.5  -4.6    2.3    1.4    2.5   -3.1
Public                                      1.6    4.0    5.6    5.4   3.6   -4.4
Private                                    -6.1   -8.6   -3.3   -4.0  -1.2    1.3
External savings                             29.0  35.1   31.5   41.9   32.4   33.5
Gross International Reserves (months of imports)  1.4  2.3  2.3   3.3    3.2    2.3
Source: IMF and Central Bank of Nicaragua
9.     The Government's program to address Nicaragua's huge fiscal deficit and large
public debt is reasonable, but not without risks. The magnitude of the adjustment
foreseen is very large and will entail significant sacrifice - which, in turn, could test the
Government's resolve to remain on track. In addition, there remains a risk that domestic
debt - already over 50 percent of official GDP - could increase in the absence of policy
changes with regard to compensation payments to owners of properties expropriated in
the 1980s. This issue is politically sensitive since these compensations were determined
in the early 1990s as a means of redressing illegal expropriations and signaling respect
for property rights.
B. Poverty Reduction
10.    Despite its uneven economic performance in recent years, Nicaragua has
maintained steady progress over the last decade in reducing poverty. As shown in Table
2, results of the 1993, 1998 and 2001 Living Standards Measurement Surveys (LSMSs)
indicate a reduction of about 4.5 percent in the proportion of the total population living



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                                           S
under the poverty line (Table 2). The decline in the share of the population living in
extreme poverty is even more pronounced, having fallen from 19.4 percent in 1993 to
15.1 percent in 2001.      Poverty fell most in the rural areas, where the poor are
concentrated, and especially in the Pacific and Central regions. Trends in urban poverty
were mixed: poverty declined in the Central region, but increased in the Pacific and
Atlantic regions. The Atlantic region experienced a deterioration in poverty during 1993-
1998, but this has been partly compensated for by improvements during 1998-01.
Although hurricane Mitch caused major human and physical damage, it did not
significantly change Nicaragua's overall poverty profile.
Table 2: The Evolution of Poverty in Nicaragua, 1993-2001 (percentages)
Extreme Poverty Headcount Index               Poverty Headcount Index
Region                      Change Change Change                      Change Change Change
1993   1998  2001   93-98  98-01  93-01   1993   1998  2001   93-98  98-01  93-01
National   19.4   17.3  15.1   -2.1   -2.2   -4.3    50.3  47.9   45.8   -2.4   -2.1   -4.5
Urban     7.3    7.6    6.2    0.3   -1.4   -1.1    31.9  30.5   30.1   -1.4   -0.4   -1.8
Rural     36.3   28.9  27.4   -7.4   -1.5   -8.9    76.1  68.5   67.8   -7.6   -0.7   -8.3
Managua    5.1    3.1    2.5   -2.0   -0.6   -2.6    29.9  18.5   20.2  -11.4   1.7    -9.7
Pacific
Urban     6.4    9.8    5.9    3.4   -3.9   -0.5    28.1   39.6  37.2   11.5   -2.4   9.1
Rural     31.6   24.1  16.3   -7.5   -7.8  -15.3    70.7  67.1   56.8   -3.6   -10.3  -13.9
Central
Urban     15.3   12.2   11.1  -3.1   -1.1   4.2     49.2   39.4  37.6   -9.8   -1.8   -11.6
Rural     47.6   32.7   38.4  -14.9   5.7   -9.2    84.7   74    75.1   -10.7   1.1   -9.6
Atlantic
Urban      7.9   17     13.1   9.1   -3.9    5.2    35.5   44.4   43     8.9   -1.4    7.5
Rural     30.3   41.4  26.9   11.1  -14.5   -3.4    83.6   79.3  76.7   -4.3   -2.6   -6.9
Source: World Bank, Nicaragua: Poverty Assessment Follow-Up, 2002.
11.     If Nicaragua's poverty levels continue to decline at the same pace as during 1993-
2001, the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of cutting extreme poverty in half
should be reached well before the target date of 2015. There are concerns, however,
about the country's ability to sustain this pace. The decline in poverty from 1993 to 1998
was driven in large measure by extensive rural sector growth, boosted by high export
commodity prices, the availability of unoccupied land and a return to normalcy after a
decade of civil war. None of these factors can be expected to deliver a sustained growth
impulse indefinitely, and indeed, Nicaragua's main export prices already have
experienced a major deterioration since 2000.1         The fact that overall poverty has
continued to decline over 1998-2001 appears to. be due mainly to the post-Mitch
reconstruction boom, which also came to an end in 2001. This means that growth in the
rural sector, where most of the poor are concentrated, could be short-lived in the absence
of new stimuli to sustain agricultural output growth. Moreover, future growth needs to
rely on productivity growth, since the extensive growth pattern followed during the 1990s
is reaching its natural limits and could result in major environmental damage if
continued.
'Accordingly, poverty has increased again over 1998-2001in the principal coffee growing areas (Central
Rural region), which are the ones that suffered the greatest price shocks; Table 1.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                                          6
12.    As discussed in the Joint Staff Assessment of the first PRSP Progress Report, the
targets for poverty reduction in 2015 can be achieved with an average per capita income
growth of two percentage points or more over the next 12 years. Nicaragua's growth
prospects currently appear less favorable than in the latter half of the 1 990s, in part due to
depressed export commodity prices and recessive international economic conditions.
Domestically, a major fiscal adjustment (on the order of 6 percent of GDP over four
years) is needed to move toward a sustainable macroeconomic situation, which places a
significant constraint on the public sector's ability to maneuver in years to come.
Nevertheless, the poverty reduction target is considered attainable, particularly in view of
the government's commitment to protect poverty related spending when undertaking this
adjustment; the PRSP Progress Report (Table 4) projects a continued increase in the GDP
share of poverty-related spending in spite of the significant decline in GDP-share of total
public expenditures. Also, the program projections envisage a recovery of growth in the
neighborhood of 2 percent in per capita terms by 2004, as external conditions are
projected to recover partially and the fiscal adjustment is expected to have a limited
recessionary impact. In this last regard, it is projected that the growth retarding effects of
reduced public expenditures will be largely offset by the growth inducing effects of more
private investments facilitated ("crowded in") by the reduced government presence in the
economy, together with the adoption of the market-oriented reforms contemplated in the
PRSP.
Table 3. Nicaragua: Progress Toward Meeting the PRSP Targets
Actual Values       PRSP Targets Track? Target
Poverty Indicators                     1993   1998  1999   2001  2001   2005          2015
Data Source
Extreme Poverty Ratio (%)     LSMS      19.4  17.3         15.1   16.0  14.3   yes    9.3
Net Primary Enrollement Ratio (%)  MECD  75.6  79.6        83.0   77.9  83.4   yes    90.0
Maternal Mortality            MINSA                  148    125         129     yes    37
Infant Mortality (/1,000 live births)  DHS     40           31           32    yes     21
Child Mortality (/1,000 live births)  DHS      50           40           37    yes     22
Access to Reprod. Health Serv. (%)  MINSA            21.0  23.8   22.0   23    partly  100.0
Chronic Malnutrition (%)      LSMS      23.7  19.7         17.8   17.9  16*     yes    7.0
Water Coverage (%)            ENACAL                 66.5  70.0   69.5  75.4   partly  100.0
Sanitation Coverage (%)       LSMS      82.6  84.1         86.2   85.0  88*     yes   95.0
Illiteracy Rate (%)           LSMS      21.5  18.8         18.7   18.5  16'     no    10.0
National Strategy for Sustained Development             (to be implemented by 2005)  yes
Source: World Bank, Nicaragua Poverty Assessment Follow-up, 2002.
13.    As shown in Table 3, Nicaragua also has made significant progress in meeting its
other PRSP targets, which are closely linked to the MDGs. This reflects the overall
positive growth performance during the second half of the 1990s, the priority given by
the government to improving the coverage of basic social services and generous amounts
of donor assistance, especially in the aftermath of hurricane Mitch.. For example, net
primary enrollment rates have risen from under 76 percent in 1993 to over 83 percent in
2001, significantly exceeding the target set in the PRSP. Similarly, PRSP social targets
have been met or exceeded in virtually all other areas for which targets were set
including, inter alia, for chronic malnutrition, water and sanitation. An exception to this
general improvement in social indicators is the illiteracy rate, which in Nicaragua, as
elsewhere, has proved difficult to affect in a medium time frame. There also are some



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        7
concerns about the pace at which access to reproductive health services and the coverage
of water services are increasing. While progress in both these areas has been in line with
PRSP targets for 2001, the short-term PRSP targets themselves are relatively modest vis a
vis MDG goals for 2015. Though not listed as a PRSP target, the indicators on child
health related to diarrhea also give cause for concern because they appear to have
deteriorated since 1999 according to the PRSP Progress Report.
14.   Looking toward the fiiture, continued progress in Nicaragua's social indicators
could be held back by the country's extremely low levels of social spending, which
mainly reflects the country's overall low level of income, and thus further emphasizes the
need for higher, sustained growth. Even though per capita social spending increased by
50 percent in US Dollar terms in the aftermath of hurricane Mitch, it still remains far
below the Latin American average. (Social spending as a share of GDP appears to be
higher than the Latin American average, but that is due to the sub-valuation of
Nicaragua's GDP.) This necessarily directs attention to the need for sector reforms that
aim to bring about more efficient use of existing resources, as well as on resource growth
through higher GDP.
III. NICARAGUA'S GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
AND AREAS FOR WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A. The Government's Enhanced Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
15.   The Government's strategy for poverty reduction and economic development is
outlined in its Enhanced Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and its
PRSP Progress Report. The PRSP was prepared over a period of two years, involving
broad-based participation from many sectors in society. The overarching objective of
policies and public expenditure programs prioritized in the PRSP is to reduce extreme
poverty from a rate of 19.4 percent in 1993 to 9.3 percent in 2015. As shown in Table 3
(above), the PRSP also aims to achieve nine other targets by 2015, mostly involving
social indicators related to the Millennium Development Goals.
16.   The PRSP rests on four pillars: (i) broad based economic growth with an
emphasis on productive employment generation and rural development; (ii) greater and
better investment in the human capital of the poor; (iii) better protection for vulnerable
populations; and (iv) the strengthening of institutions and good governance. These four
pillars are intertwined with three cross-cutting themes: a reduction in environmental
degradation and ecological vulnerability, an increase in social equity and further
decentralization. Although the PRSP was prepared under the previous Government, the
Bolafios administration has confirmed its ownership of the PRSP. However, it has
emphasized the need to revise the criteria used for allocating resources, such that both the
poverty map and assessments of the productive potential of program beneficiaries should
henceforth serve as criteria for program targeting purposes.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        8
B. The Proposed Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC)
17.   The Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) is the first in a proposed
series of one or two-tranche adjustment credits to support the implementation of the
PRSP. This series is intended to cover the period of this Govermment Administration,
and gradually become synchronized with the government's budget cycle, in parallel with
the PRGF arrangement with the IMF. It contains performance benchmarks, policy
measures and outcome indicators, and is meant to anchor the Bank Group's overall
support for Nicaragua's development strategy. As envisioned in the CAS, the PSAC
would be followed by a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided
that the analytic underpinnings and fiduciary arrangements required for PRSCs have been
studied and are implemented as planned. This proposal responds to the interest expressed
by the Government in an eventual shift to the PRSC instrument as a means of better
aligning IDA assistance with its budgetary cycle, improving aid coordination within a
government-led program and mobilizing additional resources from bilateral partners who
have expressed interest in cofinancing PRSCs. Under this framework, subsequent PRSCs
would increasingly provide the bulk of IDA assistance for investment purposes, while
other IDA-financed projects would progressively limit their focus on institutional
capacity building and on providing technical assistance to help implement the policies
and measures highlighted by the PSAC
18.   Each adjustment credit in the proposed series would be provided on the up-front
completion of a set of prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress in
implementing the social and structural reform agenda contained in the country's poverty
reduction strategy. The provision of each credit in the sequence also depends on
continued satisfactory macroeconomic performance and satisfactory overall progress in
achieving the social and structural benchmarks presented in the PRSP and reflected in the
CAS triggers, based on a review by IDA staff. The prior actions of the first PSAC would
be agreed up front, while each subsequent adjustment credit would build on the previous
ones, with prior actions formulated and agreed upon in reference to progress made in
reaching certain benchmarks described at the outset as part of a rolling medium-term
program framework.
19.   The proposed PSAC and PRSCs support the policy measures described in the
PRSP in a selective manner. They would not reflect all the policy measures contained in
the PRSP, but rather would mainly provide support to areas where IDA has a
comparative advantage and toward reform measures expected to have the highest poverty
reducing impact. In this last respect, the PSAC and PRSCs would give special attention
to measures emphasized in the HIPC Completion Point Conditions, which also were
derived from the PRSP.
20.   The program supported under this PSAC gives particular attention to the first,
second and fourth pillars of the PRSP, responding to the government's emphasis on the
urgent need to accelerate economic growth, build the country's human resource base and
improve governance. Within the first pillar, the PSAC emphasizes measures and policies
to improve the private investment climate, and within the fourth pillar, the PSAC
emphasizes measures to improve transparency and strengthen public expenditure



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        9
management. The restoration of rapid economic growth is essential for maintaining the
positive momentum in reducing Nicaragua's poverty indicators. However, Nicaragua's
public sector will be functioning under very tight fiscal constraints in the years to come,
so that the main impulses for raising growth will have to come from the private sector.
Since the government does not have the resources to provide fiscal incentives, it will
need to rely on improvements in the overall policy environment to attract private
investors.  One critical aspect of this environment are governance indicators, where
Nicaragua has not ranked well in recent years compared to other nations. Another critical
element is a healthy and skilled labor force.
21.   The PSAC's emphasis on improving public expenditure and financial
management is driven by the urgent need to increase the impact of public expenditures,
including those that are financed by foreign aid. Nicaragua is one of the most aid
dependent countries in the world, and the prospects of significant increases in aid to
achieve the PRSP targets are slim. Instead, Nicaragua will have to rely on measures to
increase program impact under existing levels of aid. This will require improved
prioritization of public spending and better aid coordination. Both require, in turn,
improvements in the government's expenditure and fiduciary management. Donors, in
particular, will need to be persuaded that the public sector's financial management
systems are sufficiently developed to entrust their funds through the normal public sector
budgeting process, without resorting to expensive parallel administration systems. Also,
they need to be persuaded of the adequacy of the public sector's expenditure
prioritization process to be prepared to channel their funds in the form of fiscal budget
support toward the activities prioritized by the government, instead of supporting
different agendas.
22.   The reform program supported by this PSAC has been carefully sequenced. The
measures supported by and identified in the conditionality of the proposed first PSAC
consist of important measures and actions completed since the PRSP was prepared and
presented in 2001. Some of these actions consist of the passage of important framework
laws, whose implementation provides the content of prior actions for subsequent credits
under this PSAC framework. The actions by the first proposed PSAC, together with the
follow-up measures proposed as prior actions for subsequent PRSCs, are discussed next
under each of the PSAC pillars.
C. First PRSP Pillar - Broad-Based Economic Growth and Structural Reform
23.   This pillar was designed in response to the constraints on growth identified in the
PRSP (Chapter III, Section C) and rests on the implementation of a macroeconomic
program of continued stabilization and structural reform, including privatization of
government-owned utilities, actions aimed at modernizing the rural economy, fostering
small and medium-sized businesses, the development of the Atlantic Coast, and the
promotion of strategic productive clusters. This pillar clearly relies on an aggressive
private sector response. The PRSP expects the future economic expansion to be led by
urban services (such as, tourism, banking, commerce and communications), but the
dictates of poverty reduction require a special effort to ensure that the rural economy
expands as well. With that purpose in mind, the PRSP focuses on the following actions:



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                         10
*  Improving incentives for rural development through the elimination of price and
cost distortions faced by farmers and the promotion of free trade agreements with
Nicaragua's major trading partners to further reduce the anti-export bias facing
rural producers.
*  Securing property rights and improving the operation of rural factor markets to
encourage private investment, while revising bank regulations to widen credit
access, formalize non-conventional financial organizations and improve the
operations of the rural credit fund.
*  Increasing investments in rural infrastructure, especially in rural roads, rural
electricity and rural telecommunications services.
*  Implementing programs aimed at small and medium-sized producers through a
strategy to foster competitiveness in several strategic clusters with high growth
potential, such as tourism, textiles and clothing, and forestry products.
*  Promoting improved production technologies to raise agricultural productivity
growth.
24.   Of these elements, the PSAC focuses on measures to improve the investment
climate, especially to attract foreign direct investment and on strengthening the financial
system, including the regulatory environment for micro-finance institutions. The area of
macroeconomic stability, which is critical for an enabling environment, will be covered
under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), with the PSAC
focusing mainly on the composition of public expenditures. Similarly, IDA's support
through the PSAC would be complemented by support from IDB and other donors, as
well as through other ongoing IDA operations (see CAS).
25.   Key Issues. Key factors that depress the investment climate are the lack of
infrastructure which keeps transport, energy and telecommunications prices among the
highest in the region, the dilution of investment promotion efforts, and uncertainties
about property rights and the rules of the game in conducting business. The weak
financial system, on the other hand, represents a major source of vulnerability to crises
triggered by internal or external shocks. This weakness is compounded by the lack of
long-term domestic savings, which limits the availability of credit for productive
investments, especially for small and medium scale investors.
26.   Reform Straterv. Nicaragua's large infrastructure deficit in virtually all sectors
reflects many years of neglect and destruction during the 1980s, and will take a persistent
effort over many years to correct. Given its severe fiscal constraints, the government will
not be in a position to finance the investments needed to significantly expend the
infrastructure network.  Therefore, its strategy is to (i) rely on private sector
participation in infrastructure to finance most of the expansion in telecommunications
and energy, (ii) establish a sustainable road maintenance system to increase the impact
and longevity of investments in roads, and rationalize the use of state-owned construction
companies (COERCOs) to increase the cost-effectiveness of transport expenditures, and
(iii) develop a cluster development approach whereby public investments are initially
concentrated in areas deemed to have the greatest growth potential. To strengthen
investment promotion efforts, the government is refocusing the activities of the Center
for Exports and Investments toward export promotion, while creating a new commission



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        11
(Pro-Nicaragua) to focus exclusively on investment promotion.  (This had been
recommended in an earlier FIAS study.) To strengthen property rights, the government
is modernizing the land registry, followed by the cadastre, which will facilitate a more
systematic and comprehensive titling process. These measures will be complemented by
the passage of a law regulating the process of demarcation and titling of lands of
indigenous and ethnic communities on the Atlantic Coast. The government is planning to
develop a competition framework, which may require modernizing the Commercial
Code. To address the weak financial system, the government will continue strengthening
the Superintendency of Banks and revising prudential norms, and revise the framework
for the asset resolution process to be better prepared for future banking crises. (In its
Letter of Development Policy, the government is requesting IDA and IMF assistance
under the Financial Sector Assessment Program to identify the most important
deficiencies in the financial sector and develop a plan of actions to correct them.)
Finally, the government plans to complete the pension reform process, which establishes
a new funded system with the two-fold objective of placing the pension system on an
actuarially sound basis and creating a source for long term savings that should contribute
significantly to the development of local capital markets.
27.   Expected Results. The main result expected from this strategy is a significant
increase in private direct investment, which would provide, prima facie evidence of a
successfully applied strategy. Other results expected are:
* a successfully operating investment promotion commission, resulting in greater
complementarity between public and private investments,
* more secure property rights, through the modernization of the cadastre and public
registry, and advances in the titling of properties,
* clearer, more effective rural sector and forestry sector policies and investment plans,
* a more effective, market-oriented and demand-driven agricultural technology system,
* significant improvements in the flow of rural financial services,
* a significant expansion in telecommunications and energy infrastructure,
* stable annual budgets for road maintenance expenditures,
* a significant expansion of domestic savings through the new pension system, and
* the restoration of annual GDP growth in the neighborhood of 5 percent.
28. PSACPriorActions. To achieve these results, the Nicaraguan government has (i)
implemented an adequate macroeconomic framework during the course of 2002 (which
permitted reaching agreement with the IMF on a new PRGF arrangement), (ii) presented
a satisfactory report to IDA on poverty-focused and overall public spending executed in
2001, to be used as baseline for future expenditure monitoring purposes, (iii) adopted
new regulations and by-laws for INTA to encourage the creation of a market for
providers of agricultural technology services, and created the Technology and Forest
Development Foundation (FUNICA) to, inter alia, administer a competitive fund to
finance agricultural services, FAITAN, (iv) divested 51 percent of the state
telecommunications company, ENITEL, and assigned ENEL's power generating
operations to four successor companies of ENEL, two of which have been either sold to
the private sector or are being operated by the private sector. These achievements have
been proposed as prior actions for disbursement of the PSAC.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       12
29.   Other actions contemplated in the program that could be supported through
subsequent adjustment operations include (i) agreement with IDA on the composition of
the annual fiscal budget to be submitted to Assembly, with outlays related to the poverty
reduction strategy representing at least 47 percent of the total proposed fiscal budget in
2004 and 50 percent in 2005, (ii) the completion of the demarcation and titling of land in
at least 5 indigenous communities in the Atlantic Coast and Bosawas region, (iii) the
restructuring and strengthening the rural electrification fund (FODIEN) and creation of
the telecom investment fund (FITEL), while having established a clear policy on long
term funding and allocation mechanisms of subsidies for both programs, (iv) progress in
the completion of the pension reform program as reflected in the appointment of a new
Superintendent of Pensions, the streamlining of the organizational structure and staffing
of the Superintendency of Pensions in line with fiscal budget constraints, the awarding of
licenses to two private fund managers, the restructuring of INSS and the transfer of
eligible social security contributions to the new pension system, and (v) the preparation
of a revised productive sector policy and development of a sector-wide investment plan
(with special reference to the agricultural technology and forestry sectors) that is
consistent with the macroeconomic program, in broad consultation with the private
sector, donors and non-governmental organizations.
D. Second Pillar - Greater and Better Investment in Human Capital
30.   This pillar aims to increase the human capital of the poor through investments in
basic education and technical training, preventive health care at the primary level, child
nutrition and a stronger population policy, in order to enhance their productivity, income
and welfare. Structural reforms in the social sectors are vital to the success of these
efforts in view of very tight budget constraints that force the government to limit its
social budget and look instead for institutional strengthening and operational efficiency
gains. Two key ongoing decentralization efforts that the government seeks to enhance in
the education and health sectors involve a balance between the power of local autonomy
and the need to provide an adequate framework of incentives for quality and equity at the
national level.
31.   The proposed PSAC aims to support this pillar of the PRSP by focusing on
measures to raise the coverage and quality of primary education, increase the coverage
and quality of basic health services, especially in rural areas, improve child nutrition
indicators, increase the coverage of water and sanitation services, and strengthen
reproductive health programs. These measures are being complemented by support from
ongoing projects in health and education being financed by IDA, IDB and other donors.
32.   Key Issues. Nicaragua's social indicators are among the worst in the region.
Although they have exhibited advances in many areas during the last decade, some key
indicators such as child malnutrition rates, the illiteracy rate and maternal mortality have
not changed much. Also, population growth rates remain inordinately high, especially
among the poor. Nicaragua's social indicators are held back by the extremely low levels
of social spending. Although this mainly reflects the country's very low overall income
levels, the share of public spending devoted to the social sectors also has been low by



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        13
Latin American standards. Improving Nicaragua's social indicators, therefore, will
require both faster growth as well as more fiscal resources. Even if social spending in
Nicaragua were to double, however, it would still remain far below the average per capita
social spending in the other Latin American countries. This means that increasing the
pace of improvement in social indicators also will require major sector reforms to create
better incentives and raise efficiency in the delivery of social services.
33.   Reform Strategy. The education strategy focuses on the delivery of quality
educational services that would depend upon an adequate mechanism of incentives to
provide those services. Central to the strategy is an initiative to provide financial and
administrative autonomy to schools that would be more responsive to the local
community that they serve, backed up by a strong, centrally managed system that would
ensure an adherence to minimum quality standards, to capture spillover benefits between
decentralized units, and to ensure that equity objectives are not undermined due to
decentralization. In addition to efforts to provide greater autonomy to schools, the
government also plans to expand the coverage of preschool and make selective
investments in providing access to school for children unable to attend early grades
because of their distance to the school site. Additional investments to improve schools
and schooling would guarantee a minimum quality standard of schooling inputs,
conditions, and services for all schools, as well as a program of incentives to
parent/school councils to steadily increase the quality of their schools and achieve higher
outcomes for their students. The curricula of the teacher training institutes are to be
improved and expanded to make them more relevant for local needs.
34.   For the Atlantic Coast, the PRSP emphasizes the continued use of instruction in
the mother tongue in the initial grades while strengthening the attainment of Spanish
language proficiency.  A series of studies are planned to assess the effectiveness and
relevance of technical and tertiary education with a view toward possible reforms. (Such
reforms could become an important engine for increasing productivity growth and for
widening the skills and adaptivity of the workforce; both of which would enhance private
sector growth and encourage FDI.)  Finally, the PRSP proposes a family subsidy
program to encourage very poor children to attend primary school on a regular basis.
35.   The Government submitted a proposal for funding to the Secretariat of the
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI), an initiative of international donor
countries to provide grant financing for deserving countries towards the goal of assuring
that by 2015 all children will obtain at least a complete primary school education.
Nicaragua's proposed EFA-FTI is built around a two-pronged strategy. First, it would
provide school councils of all of the nation's schools with resources, guidelines and
technical assistance to enable them to raise the quality of education services their schools
deliver, step-by-step, to guarantee adequate learning for all of the children in their
community, while at the same time holding these councils accountable for results.
Second, the proposed plan would provide demand-side subsidies through a scholarship
incentive fund, integrating the Red de Protecci6n Social with the Ministry of Education's
Beca program, to help children from the poorest families overcome hardships to enroll in
school and attend class daily.  The proposed program  would also promote the
engagement of parents and civil society in the education process, provide adequate



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        14
educational material, and measure results. The educational administration at all levels
would be strengthened on the basis of experiences from successful interventions and
would be able to assist areas where results have been lacking. Representatives of the
donor community have recently formally agreed to support Nicaragua's EFA-FTI
program. Work is now proceeding to build the required capacity and close the financing
gap.
36.   The health sector strategy contemplated in the PRSP focuses on improved
implementation of the institutional modernization process, increasing the coverage and
quality of health services and on promoting behavioral changes at the household level.
The modernization process focuses on introducing results-based management practices,
innovative ways of providing services in remote areas, alternative systems for
procurement and distribution of medicines, the creation of special 'maternal houses' to
improve access to prenatal care and institutionalized births for women with obstetric
risks, and a demand-driven process to target health services. The expansion of coverage
focuses particularly on primary health care and on women of reproductive age, children
and adolescents, and will involve the creation, rehabilitation and equipping of health care
units in rural areas, together with the development of a cost effective package of basic
services, which is to include reproductive health care services. Improving the patient
referral system and expanding provision of vaccines at the primary level is also expected
to contribute to a more efficient delivery of services. To achieve behavioral changes, the
PRSP contemplates education programs to improve hygiene and nutrition practices at the
community and household levels, in addition to their inclusion in the primary education
curricula. Recognizing the importance of access to safe water and sanitation for- good
health and nutrition outcomes, the PRSP also contemplates major investments to expand
the national coverage of water and sanitation.
37.   In nutrition, the strategy focuses on preventive measures directed at the chronic
malnutrition problems of children under two years of age. It particularly stresses family
and community actions and programs to encourage healthy diets, hygiene, preventive
health, and child/maternal care. Specific activities will concentrate on monitoring the
physical development of children, negotiating constructive feeding and food preparation
practices at the household level, and distributing vitamin supplements to nursing and
expectant mothers and to children
38.   In population, the strategy aims to integrate reproductive health care into primary
health care services, to improve family planning, reduce mortality rates and strengthen
the basic social fabric. In addition, it also contemplates formal and informal education
programs, with the participation of NGOs, community leaders and municipalities to
encourage self-esteem, responsible maternity and paternity, and family unity. These are
considered important for influencing behavioral patterns within families and among
vulnerable groups to reduce domestic violence and family disintegration.
39.   Expected Results. The main results expected in the medium term from this
strategy are:
* increases in the number and percentage of students completing primary education
with improved learning and without repeating grades,



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       15
*  an increase in the percent of children completing primary from 41 percent in 2002 to
at least 44 percent in 2005,
*  an increase in the percentage of teachers who meet requirements regarding
knowledge of basic course contents and pedagogical techniques,
*  an increase in the coverage of pre-natal and well-baby care by 10% from 2002 to
2005 in the (40) targeted municipalities,
* increased accountability of teachers,
*  a reduced incidence of diarrhea in children under 5 from 22 percent -in 2001 to 16
percent in 2004,
* a reduced incidence in acute respiratory infections in children under 5 from 24
percent in 1998 to 21 percent in 2004,,and
*  substantial increases in the number of women with access to reproductive health
services, and
* an increase in the national coverageqof water from 70% in 2001 to 75% in 2005, and
of sanitation from 86% in 2001 to 88% in 2005.
40.   PSACPriorActions. Since the full-PRSP was presented in September 2001, the
National Assembly approved the school autonomy law ("Ley de Participacion
Educativa") and the general health law ("Ley General de Salud)"), which provide the
framework for comprehensive, decentralizing reforms in the education and health sectors
that seek to improve the quality of schooling and health services, and the government has
initiated implementation of measures contemplated by these reforms. In education, the
measures implemented included training 2800 school council members on their
responsibilities under the law and its regulation, distributing 20,000 copies of the law to
all school councils, parents and teachers, arranging for 50 percent of all public schools to
receive direct financial transfers as provided under the school autonomy law and its
regulation for managing schools, and ensuring that these schools have been given the
powers to hire and fire teachers, and carrying out a pilot program to analyze the effects of
implementing the school autonomy law and its regulation. Also, the government has
implemented a results-based management system for basic health care in 13
municipalities. Finally, the government has increased the estimated percentage of the
total national population served by potable water connections by at least 1.4 percentage
points per year in each of 2000 and 2001, and increased the percentage of the total
population with access to sanitation services by 0.7 percentage points per year over the
period 1998-2001.
41.   Further actions contemplated in the program that may be supported with
subsequent adjustment operations are (i) the development of a national strategy for
expanding water and sanitation coverage, including targets for areas in extreme poverty,
and its implementation, (ii) the implementation of actions contemplated under the school
autonomy law, reflected in the extension of the "School Autonomy for Results" program
to at least 70 municipalities, the transfer of additional schools from the traditional to the
autonomous system in accordance with program targets, and the provision of adequate
financial transfers to schools for infrastructure, didactic materials, training, and
pedagogical and administrative support, and (iii) the replacement of the many primary



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                         16
health care models that are currently in use in the various health areas by the most cost-
effective model, which remains to be identified.
E. Third pillar - Better Protection for Vulnerable Groups
42.   This pillar seeks to guarantee access to basic social services for Nicaragua's
extreme poor and protect them from natural and economic disasters that perpetuate
poverty.
43.   Key Issue. Nicaragua has received a significant amount of resources for social
assistance over the last decade, but the lack of a coherent social protection strategy has
diluted their impact, as many programs intended to benefit the poor and vulnerable are
characterized by duplication, insufficient targeting, limited coverage, unknown
administrative costs and limited information about their, impact. In addition, major
vulnerable groups of the population, e.g., children aged 0-5 years and poor youth receive
insufficient attention.
44.   Reform Strate'v. Although the government is still in the process of developing a
social protection strategy, immediate efforts in this area have focused on a program that
assists young children in extremely poor households by encouraging their attendance in
school and regular medical visits for checkups and vaccinations through incentives to
their parents. This program has undergone a first pilot phase, was assessed positively and
is being expanded. As part of its longer term strategy, the government is strengthening
the public institutions responsible for social safety nets, such as the Ministry of the
Family, and rationalizing the institutional roles of multiple entities involved in providing
services to vulnerable groups. The design on assistance programs is being improved,
with clearer targeting and monitoring mechanisms, and clear exit mechanisms to avoid
dependency. In addition, the government is evaluating several programs targeted at
children aged 0-3 years, based on common indicators, to develop an early childhood
development strategy for the country and expand suitable programs accordingly. Related
actions include efforts to improve preparedness toward natural disasters and mitigate
their impact more effectively, as well as measures to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of local governments and communities to deal with disasters and reduce
vulnerability.
45.   Exvected Results. This represents the least developed of the four pillars that
underlie the PRSP. The specific results expected from a social protection strategy, as
well as an Early Childhood Development strategy, both of which are currently under
preparation, still remain to be defined.
46.   PSAC Prior Action. No prior actions are included in the PSAC under this pillar.
The adoption of a coherent and fiscally sustainable strategy and its partial implementation
are proposed as a prior action for the next adjustment credit, with follow-up measures
derived from that strategy to be included as prior actions in subsequent credits. In
supporting the design of a social protection strategy, IDA is placing special attention on
children aged up to three years, which have been identified as among the most vulnerable
members of Nicaraguan society.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       17
47.   Further actions contemplated in the program that may be supported with
subsequent adjustment operations are the approval by the Cabinet of a social protection
strategy, including an implementation plan and designation of institutional
responsibilities, while providing adequate funding for the implementation of the strategy
in the budget as agreed with IDA.
F. Fourth Pillar - Good Governance and Institutional Development
48.   Good governance is being given special emphasis by the Bolafios administration,
whose agenda during the first year in office has been dominated by an anti-corruption
campaign.  Under this pillar, the PRSP focuses on (i) consolidating Nicaragua's
democracy by developing strong independent institutions, especially the National
Assembly, Judiciary and Comptroller General's office, and better administration of law
and justice (ii) improving financial management in the public sector, and the transparency
and provision of timely information by the government, (iii) fighting corruption and
strengthening ethical values, and promoting greater civil society participation in
government affairs. The PSAC aims to support this pillar by focusing attention on
measures to improve public sector financial and expenditure management as a key
vehicle for raising the impact of public expenditures and strengthening donor
coordination, and on civil service reform. These efforts are complemented by IDA
support through the ongoing Economic Management Technical Assistance Credit and
other donor-supported projects.
49.   Key Issues.  Nicaragua ranked 81s' among 102 countries in the Transparency
International's Corruption Perceptions Index 2002.  This constitutes an important
negative signal for potential investors interested in expanding their operations in the
region. A lack of trust in the public sector's financial management is a major obstacle to
better donor coordination, as each donors seeks to maintain separate (and costly) project
administration units. Inadequate donor coordination, in turn, is an important reason why
the large amounts of foreign aid that Nicaragua has received in the last two decades has
not had a greater impact. This pillar, therefore, plays a major role in the administration's
efforts to promote faster, private investment-led growth and to increase the impact of
public expenditures. Efforts to strengthen public sector management and fight corruption
require the modernization of financial accounting systems and the development of a
stable, professional civil service that provides continuity in public administrations and is
not held hostage by politics. An integrated financial management system (SIGFA) for
the public sector began to be developed in 1995, but it proceeded very slowly and only
began to show major results in the last two years. Since the SIGFA constrains public
administrators to obey budgetary and other guidelines, there is often an incentive to
suspend or de-activate such systems; as happened recently in other countries. To avoid
such an outcome, it may be advisable to pass a Public Financial Management Law, that
would, among other, lock the SIGFA in place. Until 1999, when a new procurement law
was issued, the procurement system was obsolete, inefficient and non-transparent.
Although the new procurement law has substantially improved the overall procurement
system, there is still room for improvement of efficiency and transparency, and in making
the law more compatible with international practices. A draft law to reform the civil



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                         18
service system was presented to the National Assembly in end-1999, but has been held up
by concerns that this could result in a more inflexible system of 'tenured' civil servants,
while others fear that it may not be consistent with the country's labor code. Improved
tax administration is crucial for bringing Nicaragua's fiscal deficit under control. Once
the sub-valuation of GDP is taken into account, Nicaragua's tax revenues as a share of
GDP is low by regional standards, even though the tax rates themselves are about the
same. This means that efforts to improve tax administration and expand the tax base are
vital for putting public finances on a sound basis without putting Nicaraguan businesses
at a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis firms in neighboring countries.2
50.   Reform Strategv. With the objective of improving financial management and
transparency, the Government has agreed to the initiation of a Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and of a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR), to identify the most important gaps and weaknesses in the country's fiduciary
arrangements and public expenditure management systems, and help define a program of
corrective actions. Following up on the earlier recommendations of the FY2001 Public
Expenditure Review (which are supported by the preliminary findings from the ongoing
CFAA and CPAR teams), the strategy emphasizes the operation of a reliable integrated
financial management system in the central government, to be expanded to the rest of the
public sector, the creation of a Single Treasury Account as a channel for all public
(domestic and foreign) resources that can be better monitored, strengthening the National
System of Public Investment (SNIP) as the vehicle to review technically all public
investment proposals, and the modernization of the public procurement system. (Other
relevant areas are the strengthening of internal controls and audit functions, the
accountability on budget transfers, improvement of government financial statements and
records, enhancement of external audit reporting and public access to information.) The
reform strategy also contemplates the development of monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms to systematically review and assess the impact of public programs. Steps are
being taken to strengthen the budgeting and expenditure planning framework, which
would provide the base for the development of a medium term expenditure framework.
The Government is planning to strengthen donor coordination mechanisms, among other
things, through the establishment of sector coordination boards ('mesas sectoriales'). A
financial and real resource accounting mechanism is being set up through the
Supplementary Social Fund (FSS) to track the use of debt relief provided under the HIPC
initiative. An especially important feature of this mechanism is the systematic provision
of quarterly reports on the sources and uses of HIPC funds, public spending on all
poverty-reducing programs identified in the PRSP, and the execution of total public
expenditures.  Passage of the law to professionalize the civil service, clarifying the
accountability and functions of public servants, is a critical step in the strategy to fight
corruption and strengthen ethical values. Toward this end, the Government has been
meeting with representatives of trade unions and the political opposition, to inform them
of the benefits of this law and discuss safeguards. Finally, the participation of civil
2 The IDB already has financed several TA operations to strengthen the Customs Administration (DGA)
and Domestic Tax Administration (DGI), and is planning to focus on improving the tax in its new CAS
period, which should cover foreseeable assistance requirements in this area.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       19
society in public affairs, promoted through CONPES, is to be further strengthened
through legislation to codify the participation of citizens in government processes.
51.   Expected Results.  An important result expected under this strategy is a
significant increase in the share of total external funds that are channeled through the
Single Treasury account, which would reflect the donors' increased confidence in the
governance strengthening program that is being applied and that will follow from the
recommendations contained in the forthcoming CFAA and CPAR. Other key results are:
* inclusion of the entire public sector under the integrated financial management
system (SIGFA) (including the procurement, human resources and physical assets
modules, in addition to the already implemented budget formulation and accounting
modules),and regular audits prepared by the Comptroller General's Office through
direct SIGFA access.
* establishment of an efficient and transparent procurement system, in line with
international practices, resulting in significant reductions in public procurement
periods and costs,
* presentation of quarterly reports on the evolution of total public spending, the
evolution of poverty-reduction spending (encompassing all programs identified by the
PRSP), and the evolution of spending through the Supplementary Social Fund (FSS).
* systematic submission for clearance to the National System of Public Investment
(SNIP) of all public investment projects independent of financing source, and the
satisfactory implementation of a Monitoring and Evaluation System on progress
toward achieving PRSP objectives, resulting in improved resource allocation and
project selection,
* significant reductions in the difference between the fiscal budget and the budget
execution figures, and the development of multi-year budgets,
* the introduction of sector-wide approaches in at least one sector,.
* the introduction of a new, merit-based pay scale for civil servants that eliminates
internal inequities and is consistent with the overall fiscal envelope and public sector
reform objectives, and progress in changing the skill composition of civil servants
toward the desired composition, and
* the adoption of a non-discretionary and stable framework for transferring financial
resources to municipalities, enabling a more effective delivery of municipal services.
52.   PSAC Prior Actions. The following are the prior actions under the PSAC in
support of these objectives:
* Implementation of the integrated financial management system (SIGFA) budget
formulation, budget execution and accounting modules in 31central government
agencies and institutions, and making the execution figures accessible through the
Internet, and
* approval by the FSS Coordinating Committee of the regulations for tracking and
accounting of all funds made available to the FSS, including HIPC debt relief funds
received by Nicaragua.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                      20
53.   Further actions contemplated in the program that may be supported with
subsequent adjustment operations are (i) the satisfactory implementation of the CFAA
action plan, as documented by quarterly reports provided by the inter-institutional
working group, (ii) the implementation of a single treasury account for both domestic
and externally funded public revenues and expenditures, (iii) the calculation of the
recurrent cost implications of the public investment program and preparation of a multi-
year fiscal budget, (iv) the establishment and implementation by the Ministry of Finance
of a new merit-based pay scale policy adapted to market conditions, that eliminates
internal inequities, and is consistent with the overall fiscal envelope and public sector
reform objectives, and (v) the adoption of a non-discretionary (formula-based)
framework for transferring financial resources to municipalities, after having completed
the evaluation of a pilot financial transfer mechanism (FONDEM) and discussed it with
key stakeholders.
G. Cross-Cutting Themes
54.   The PRS also refers to three themes that cut across the four pillars: environmental
vulnerability, social equity and decentralization.  The plans to reduce ecological
vulnerability are laid out in Nicaragua's Environment Policy and Action Plan 2000-2005
(PANic) that was approved on 23 February 2001. It lays out 16 areas where the
government will take environmental actions, including the promotion of a sustainable
development model, harmonizing legislation that affects the environment, developing a
national environmental information system, promoting environmental education,
developing ways to charge for pollution costs and ensuring the use of environmental
parameters in public projects to measures cost and benefits. Actions to promote social
equity include reviewing legislation affecting indigenous groups, the children and
adolescents' code, and the adoption law. These reviews are expected to lead to important
draft legislation to improve the rights of these vulnerable groups. Also, the strategy
contemplates the development of action plans to improve opportunities for men and
women, assist rural women and reduce domestic violence. Finally, the PRSP considers
decentralization an integral part of Nicaragua's modernization and reform process. In
this context, it encompasses plans to strengthen the municipalities through development
of better financing systems, improving their planning capabilities and strengthening their
capacity to monitor and evaluate their performance.  These three themes have been
mainstreamed into the overall IDA program, and are reflected in various of the programs
supported by PSAC conditionality. In particular, the decentralization theme figures
prominently in the education and health sector reforms.
IV. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY
55.   A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua has been prepared in
collaboration with IFC and MIGA, and is being presented to the Board in parallel with
this memorandum



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                                  21
A. The World Bank Group
56.    The CAS proposes a new       framework for World Bank Group assistance.
Nicaragua's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) is at the center of this framework
in that it establishes the targets and objectives to be pursued with World Bank Group
support. The proposed IDA assistance to Nicaragua involves an increased reliance on
program lending beginning with a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC)
that will support key reforms that are needed to achieve the PRSP targets. IDA's
assistance strategy contemplates a move towards Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSCs) once it is clear that the required environment for this type of assistance is in
place, i.e. that the public expenditure program supports PRSP implementation adequately,
and that public financial management and procurement systems are in place to ensure the
transparent, economic and efficient use of Government resources. Some of the required
analytical work in this area has been completed, but key fiduciary assessments are still
under preparation.3  Preliminary findings indicate that the framework for providing
financial assistance through a PRSC could be in place in FY04. Complementing the
PRGF arrangement with the IMF, the PSAC and PRSCs will provide assistance that is
conditioned on progress made in implementing specific measures contemplated in the
PRSP, which coincide with key actions broadly identified in the HIPC Completion Point
matrix. It is expected that the move towards PRSCs would improve the impact of public
programs through better donor coordination and stronger country ownership.
57.    Under this new framework, the bulk of IDA financial assistance eventually would
be provided under the PRSCs (which would be larger in value terms than the PSAC).
Once IDA's investment assistance is provided under a PRSC framework, remaining IDA
operations would consist mainly of technical assistance operations to help implement
specific measures contemplated in the PRSP and highlighted by the PSAC/PRSC policy
matrix and of small, innovative projects of an experimental nature or for which the
institutional infrastructure needs strengthening. To improve the overall institutional
conditions for programmatic lending, ongoing and new investment projects will contain
enhanced   technical assistance components to    build institutional capacity.   The
implementation of this new approach will also require important intemal administrative
adjustments in the form of enhanced task team coordination, more intense program
3IDA is well advanced in completing the core diagnostic sector work for Nicaragua, but additional work is
needed to move towards a PRSC framework. A detailed Poverty Assessment (PA) (FY02), based on the
1998 LSMS supported the preparation of the PRSP, while the Public Expenditure Review (PER) (FY02)
presented recommendations for improving the poverty focus of public spending, strengthening public
expenditure management and establishing a HIPC tracking mechanism. An update to the PA is underway
to incorporate the results of the 2001 LSMS. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
(FY03) and a Country Procurement Assessment Report (FY03) also are currently under preparation. Once
these are completed and their findings discussed with the Govermnent, the resulting recommendations will
be integrated into a Country Economic Memorandum or Development Policy Review (FY04), which will
summarize actions needed and the Government's program for moving towards a PRSC framework. In the
meantime, the initial PSAC will support already identified reforms that aim to bring the Government's
program and policies in line with public expenditure and fiduciary pre-requisites for the PRSC framework.
This is the case of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment, for example, where initial mission
recommendations have already been incorporated as reforms to be supported under the PSAC.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        22
supervision, a greater focus on analytic and advisory services (AAA), and an enhanced
IDA field presence.
58.   The overall IDA resource envelope available to Nicaragua for this CAS period
(FY03-FY05) amounts to SDR90 million (or approximately US$ 120 million equivalent)
in the base case. The proposed PSAC would amount to 12.5 percent of the total base
case IDA allocation. Overall, three adjustment credits are foreseen over the period that
the Bolafnos administration is in power, two of which are expected in the base case to fall
within the current CAS period. Together, these two operations would amount to about 40
percent of the total base case IDA allocation.
59.   In tandem with IDA, IFC and MIGA will support the four pillars of the PRSP,
with a particular emphasis on the first pillar-broad based economic growth. IFC and
MIGA will pursue their objectives in partnership with the private sector through
investment and non-investment vehicles. IFC's approach in Nicaragua is to support
private sector development through activities at both the individual country and regional
levels.  In support of Nicaragua's PRSP agenda, IFC will continue supporting
Nicaragua's private sector in priority areas such as (i) strengthening the financial sector
and capital market, (ii) promoting foreign private investment in Nicaragua, (iii)
broadening private participation in infrastructure, and (iv) reactivating growth in
agriculture and industry. The scope of IFC's future investments will depend on the pace
of improvement in removing the structural obstacles identified in the 2001 PRSP, such as
the fragile banking systems and weak property rights, and progress in addressing the
fourth pillar-good governance and institutional development-which will be critical for
improving investor confidence and doing business in Nicaragua.
B. Coordination with the IMF
60.   As previously noted, the IMF and the Government of Nicaragua have concluded a
new 3-year PRGF arrangement, which was approved by the IMEF's Board in December
2002. The IMF will continue to concentrate on macroeconomic issues, focusing
specifically on short- and medium-term macroeconomic stability and incentives.  As
before, IDA will closely collaborate and coordinate activities with the IMF. The staffs of
the two institutions will continue to conduct joint PRSP missions and prepare joint
assessments of PRSP Progress Reports, and are coordinating the contents of the PSAC
and PRGF to ensure that the instruments complement one another.
C. Coordination with the IDB and other Donors
61.   The IDB is the largest aid-providing international financial institution in
Nicaragua, followed by IDA, and it is currently also is in the process of preparing its
assistance strategy for Nicaragua. Coordination with IDA has been very close in this
endeavor: several CAS coordination meetings were held in 2002 and early drafts of both
documents were shared on a confidential basis. As with IDA, the IDB's assistance
strategy also is being designed around the implementation of Nicaragua's PRSP, but with
a strategic focus on (i) economic growth, (ii) governance, and (iii) the productivity of the
poorest groups. In the implementation of its strategy, the IDB is contemplating several



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                        23
budget support operations that are similar in nature to the PSAC. The IDB has been
responsible for coordinating periodic consultative group meetings, of which the next one
is scheduled for February 2003.
62.   Although IDA and IDB programs often overlap across sectors, a certain division
of labor has emerged at the sub-sector level. In the area of fiscal reform, IDA has
focused mainly on public expenditures, while IDB has focused on revenue mobilization.
IDA has taken the lead in telecommunications sector reform, while IDB has been leading
the energy and water utility reforms. In the governance area, IDA is focusing on
financial management and civil service reform, while IDB has been focusing on
strengthening procurement and auditing functions, and on the institutional development
of the Comptroller General's Office and the Judiciary. In the social sectors, IDA has
been focusing on primary education, while IDB has focused on secondary and tertiary
education. (In areas of clear overlap, such as in the health sectors and in the provision of
social infrastructure, both institutions have entered into a co-financing arrangement under
joint project management structures.) The areas of the PRSP supported by IDA's
proposed PSAC and by the IDB's planned sector adjustment operations are being chosen
to reflect the relative strengths and experience of each institution.
63.   Other donors also have been very supportive of the PRSP process and several
have expressed interest in supporting the programmatic approach through so-called
sector-wide approaches. These donors are considering using the PSAC/PRSC policy
matrix as the framework to disburse their support, while monitoring PRSP
implementation through the budgetary process and the HIPC tracking mechanism
established through the Supplementary Social Fund. After a transition period, there is
expected to be a periodic (semi-annual or annual) Government and donor review of
progress in implementing the PRSP and in achieving its targets.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
64.   The proposed Credit would be a core operation to implement the objectives of the
PRSP and the Bank Group Assistance Strategy. As detailed below, Nicaragua would
have achieved, prior to the Board presentation of this operation, several key program
benchmarks in the areas of improving the private investor climate, improving the
coverage and quality of education and health, and cross-cutting public sector reforms to
improve governance.
A.    Reform Measures and Actions To Be Taken Prior to Board Presentation
65.   The following reform measures and actions are proposed as prior actions:
* implementation of an adequate macroeconomic framework;"' 
* presentation of a report on poverty-focused and overall public spending executed in
2001 to be used as a baseline for future expenditure monitoring;
* adopted new regulations and by-laws for INTA to encourage the creation of a market
for providers of agricultural technology services, and created FUNICA to, inter alia,
administer a competitive fund to finance agricultural services, FAITAN;



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       24
* divested 51 percent of the shares of ENITEL and assigned ENEL's power generating
operations to four successor companies of ENEL, two of which have been either sold
to the private sector or are being operated by the private sector;
* approval of the school autonomy law ("Ley de Autonomia Educativa") and its
Regulations, and initiating implementation by training 2800 school council members
on their responsibilities under the law and its regulation, distributing 20,000 copies of
the law to all school councils, parents and teachers, arranging for 50 percent of all
public schools to receive direct financial transfers as provided under the school
autonomy law and its regulation for managing schools, and ensuring that these
schools have been given the powers to hire and fire teachers, and carrying out a pilot
program to analyze the effects of implementing the school autonomy law and its
regulation;
* approval of the general health law ("Ley General de Salud") and implementation of a
results-based management system for basic health care in 13 municipalities;
*  increasing the estimated percentage of the total national population served by potable
water connections by at least 1.4 percentage points per year in each of 2000 and 2001,
and increasing the percentage of the total population with access to sanitation services
by 0.7 percentage points per year over the period 1998-2001;
* implementation of the SIGFA budget formulation, budget execution and accounting
modules in 31 central government agencies and institutions, and made budget
execution figures accessible through the Internet; and
* approval by the FSS Coordinating Committee of the regulations for tracking and
accounting of all funds made available to the FSS, including HIPC debt relief funds
received by Nicaragua.
66.   It is proposed that IDA's decision to proceed with a second adjustment credit
(possibly in the form of a PRSC) be made contingent on the absence of any significant
deterioration in the overall CAS triggers, including maintenance of an adequate
macroeconomic framework, as well as satisfactory progress in the following areas:
*  agreement with IDA on composition of 2004 Budget to be submitted to Assembly,
with outlays related to the poverty reduction strategy representing at least 47 percent
of the total proposed fiscal budget;
*  completing the demarcation and titling of land in at least 5 indigenous communities in
the Atlantic Coast and Bosawas region;
*  restructuring and strengthening the rural electrification fund (FODIEN) and creation
of the telecom investment fund (FITEL), while having established a clear policy on
long term funding and allocation mechanisms of subsidies for both programs;
*  appointment of a new  Superintendent of Pensions, the streamlining of the
organizational structure and staffing of the Superintendency of Pensions in line with
fiscal budget constraints, and the awarding of licenses to two private fund managers;
* development of a national strategy for expanding water and sanitation coverage,
including targets for areas in extreme poverty;
*  approval by the Cabinet of a social protection strategy, including an implementation
plan and designation of institutional responsibilities, while providing adequate
funding for the implementation of the strategy in the budget as agreed with IDA;



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       25
* the introduction of a single treasury account for both domestic and externally funded
public revenues and expenditures;
*  calculation of the recurrent cost implications of the public investment program and
the initiation of plans to create a medium term expenditure framework;
* establishment and initial implementation by the Ministry of Finance of a new merit-
based pay scale policy adapted to market conditions, that eliminates internal
inequities, and is consistent with the overall fiscal envelope and public sector reform
objectives; and
* adoption of a non-discretionary (formula-based) framework for transferring financial
resources to municipalities, after having completed the evaluation of a pilot financial
trarisfer mechanism (FONDEM) and discussed with key stakeholders.
B. Implementation and Monitoring
67.   Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements. Since this PSAC is a one-
tranche operation, all the prior actions and reform measures contemplated under the
credit have been taken already. To facilitate the implementation of measures
contemplated for support under follow-up operations, be they PRSCs or PSACs, and
coordinate the process of monitoring across different sectors, the government has set up
an inter-ministerial task force that includes the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank,
and the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. IDA will meet with this task force on a
regular basis to agree on the overall fiscal budget allocation (with special attention paid to
poverty-related spending) before each credit is declared effective and review the
execution of total spending on these programs, together with a review of compliance with
the PSAC conditionality. Reporting on the use of total spending would take place through
the Supplementary Social Fund, FSS.
68.   Supervision and Subsequent Adjustment Credits. Supervision and preparation
of subsequent Credits should take place in close collaboration with other donors and be
consistent with the existing PRSP review mechanism, which operates in close.
collaboration with the National Economic and Social Planning Council (CONPES). The
Goverrnent will be asked to report to IDA and other donors on a quarterly basis on
progress made in each PSAC program area, using the same tracking mechanism that is
being set up through the Supplementary Social Fund for HIPC funds. In addition, the
achievement of future PRSC/PSAC targets will be assessed annually in the context of the
PRSP review that will document the progress made in the PRSP and analyze the outcome
of reforms. It would be expected that if progress is considered adequate, Nicaragua's
poverty reduction program would be supported through subsequent PRSCs (or PSACs)
under the programmatic lending framework, subject to the approval of the Board of
Executive Directors. The Government and IDA would agree on the content of each
PRSC or PSAC on an annual basis.
C. Credit Administration
69.   Proposed Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower would be the Republic
of Nicaragua. A single-tranche of US$15 million (equivalent) would be made available
upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for January 2003. The closing date of the Credit



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       26
would be December 31, 2003. It is envisaged that over the following three years there
would be two firther one- or two-tranche PRSCs, for a total amount of US$60 million
equivalent to support the implementation of the PRSP.
70.   Fiduciary Aspects. The main CFAA mission visited Nicaragua at the beginning
of November and its key recommendations with respect to financial administration of the
PSAC have been incorporated into the MOP and Credit Agreement. The final CFAA
report, expected in February 2003, will provide further recommendations which would be
included in the policy matrixes of subsequent adjustment credits. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) also is currently being prepared in close coordination with
the IDB. Given the IDB's support to the implementation of an ongoing procurement
reform effort, close coordination between both donor institutions is critical. A September
2002 CPAR mission found that Nicaragua's overall procurement framework is
reasonably acceptable. Although there are some provisions that do not follow standard
international practices, these are not an impediment to procurement under IDA-funded
projects since IDA guidelines prevail over local legislation.  A December 1999
Procurement Law has substantially improved the public procurement system, but there is
still room for improvement in efficiency and transparency, and for making the law more
compatible with international practices. To address this, the Government has just started
implementing an ambitious procurement reform program with IDB and other donor
assistance to strengthen the legal, regulatory and independent oversight aspects of public
procurement. The findings and recommendations of the CPAR, expected to be
completed in mid-2003, will provide recommendations for actions needed to complement
the Government's efforts under the IDB-financed program, and for reforms, if any, to be
supported by subsequent PSACs or PRSCs.
71.   Proposed Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Requirements. The Credit
will follow IDA's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations. That is,
the Credit proceeds would be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated single tranche
release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases and no
procurement requirements would be needed. Once the Credit is approved by the Board,
the Borrower would open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in US Dollars for the
Borrower's use. As the single tranche is released upon credit effectiveness, IDA will
disburse the proceeds of the Credit into the deposit account. If the proceeds of the Credit
or any part thereof are used for ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either return that amount to the deposit
account for use for eligible purposes or refund the amount directly to IDA. The deposit
account in US Dollars would be maintained in the Central Bank and its transactions and
balances fully incorporated into the Government's accounting records and financial
statements, via the integrated financial management system (SIGFA). IDA reserves the
right to require an audit of the deposit account by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. In such a case, the audit report would be submitted no more than six months after
the date of IDA's request.
72.   Environmental Aspects.  The proposed PSAC is a structural adjustment
operation covering a broad spectrum of economy-wide policies and institutions. The
environmental provisions of OD8.60 (Adjustment Lending Policy) apply. No significant



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       27
impact of the reform measures supported by the proposed PSAC on the environment is
foreseen.
D. Benefits and Risks
73.   Benefits. The proposed actions under the PSAC are expected to contribute to
Nicaragua's poverty reduction efforts by creating a better investment climate capable of
attracting private investors and thereby accelerating economic growth, strengthening
Nicaragua's institutions and public sector management with the aim of encouraging
better donor coordination and raising the development impact of public expenditures, and
by helping implement social sector reforms that will improve the country's social
indicators in a sustained manner. The proposed Credit has several benefits over the
traditional combination of adjustment credits and investment projects:
*  a programmatic approach would promote Nicaraguan ownership of the poverty
reduction program, improve the predictability of funding, strengthen budgetary
institutions and reduce transactions costs in the delivery of foreign assistance;
*  a multi-sectoral approach would promote better coordination and collaboration as
essential ingredients for institutional reforms; and
*  it would facilitate aid assistance coordination, a key component to increase the
impact of external assistance in enhancing Nicaragua's competitiveness.
74.   The Government is planning to prepare a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
(PSIA) in 2003, focusing on the reform areas that are expected to have the greatest
impact. The PRSP Progress Report has identified four such areas: the emphasis on
cluster development aimed at strengthening the first pillar of the strategy, the fight
against corruption, the national education plan, including reforms in basic education, and
the fiscal adjustment package.  The Progress Report contains a very preliminary
identification of possible effects from these reforms, suggesting that the expected impact
of these reforms is, on balance, positive.  The Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment
recommends that the PSIA be initiated as soon as possible so that its findings can
accompany the next PRSP Progress Report.
75.   Risks and Efforts to Mitigate Them. The proposed PSAC faces several
important political, institutional and economic risks.
* An important political risk arises from the rift that emerged between the Bolafios
Administration and Liberal party congressmen led by members of the previous
administration, which could slow down the passage of important legislation needed to
implement the PRSP agenda and would make it difficult to sustain the political
support needed to complete a fiscal adjustment of the magnitude contemplated in the
government program. Bilateral donors have been helping in the effort to effect a
political reconciliation and IDA has been working with key members of the National
Assembly, facilitating relevant information and seeking to avoid misunderstandings
about the reforms that will be supported by IDA. A local civil society specialist in
the Bank's Country Office is working closely with civil society to maintain an open
dialogue on IDA assistance. Also, IDA will collaborate with the IMF in closely
monitoring the program on a regular basis to identify problems in a timely manner
and offer advice on corrective measures.



Nicaragua - PSAC                                                       28
* The absence of a well-functioning judicial system could undermine private sector
confidence and limit the impact of efforts to reduce poverty through faster growth.
Although IDA is currently not active in the judicial sector, support is being provided
by the IDB and several bilateral donors.
* There are important economic risks to program implementation, from both external
and internal sources. On the external side, Nicaragua is extremely vulnerable to
natural disasters and to terms of trade shocks, which could derail a new PRGF
program and stall progress under the HIPC Initiative. Two major risks on the internal
side concern the fragility of the financial system, which keeps the country vulnerable
to financial crises triggered by external shocks or corporate governance deficiencies,
and the related risk of a rapidly expanding domestic debt which threatens to
undermine fiscal austerity efforts. Ongoing IDA-supported programs that mitigate
these risks include assistance to strengthen Nicaragua's ability to deal with and
mitigate the effects of natural disasters and terms of trade fluctuations, and technical
assistance to strengthen the Superintendency of Banks.
* There are fiduciary risks, which have been identified in the PER, and which are being
analyzed in detail in the CFAA and CPAR. Efforts to mitigate these risks are at the
center of the Government's institutional reform program supported by the PSAC.
Also, this risk is being mitigated by limiting the PSAC to a relatively modest credit
amount.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
76.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Managing Director
Attachments                              Washington, D.C., December 18, 2002



ANNEX A
Policy Matrix- Government Reform Strategy and
Progress Indicators






Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS                                                                                             c
(The highlighted measures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACi.)
ACTION AREA                       ISSUE                                   ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                     OUTCOMES
PSAC                           PRSC-I                          PRSC-11
Maintaining stable poverty High volatility in poverty spending  Presented report on poverty-focused Agreement with IDA on compositom Agreement with EDA on compositiou Increased resources devoted to povert
reduction spending      reduces its effectiveness       and overall publc spending      of 2004 Budget submitted to the  of 2005 Budget submitted to the  reduction and significandy lower
executed in 2001, to be used as  National Assembly; outlays related  National Assembly; outlays related  volatility over time in spending on
baseline for future expenditure  to the poverty reduction strategy  to the poverty reduction strategy  poverty reducng progranis
monitoring purposes; Discussed with represent at least 47% of the total  represent at least 50/. of the total                     0
IDA the public expenditures     proposed fiscsl budget (compared to proposed fscal budget
proganuned for 2002 and the 2003  43% in 2002)
draft budget submitted to the
Assembly
A C_ ____ _PR_SP_i r                                                                                                                                                              > _;
Mantaining              Loss of fiscal discipline and the  Implemented adequate         Maintained adequate             Maintained adequate             Contained the expansion of total
Macroeconomic Stability  resolution of failed banks in  macroeconomic framework         macroeconomic frnmework         macroeconomic framework         public debt as a share of GDP       4r
2000/2001 have depleted reserves and                                                                                                                               i
increased the public domestic debt to
unsustainable levels
Improving the Investment  Low levels of domestic infrastructure Laiuched study to determine probiem Agreement reached with private sector Satisfactory implementation of a  Better symbiosis of public and pnvate
Climate and attracting  and skills call for a clustered  and priority actions for selected  and Presidential Competitiveness  cluster promotion strategy and agreed investment, Major increase in private
Foreign Direct Investment investment approach to atract new  clusters, created a specialized  Commission on a cluster development plan of actions       investment (domestic and foreign)
private investors and maximize their  Investment Promotion Commission  strategy and plan of action; successful
growth impact, Lack of adequate  (Pro-Nicaragua) to enhance     operation of Investment Promotion
investment facilitation hampers  investment promotion effort, while  Commission and CEI; action plans to                                                           cl
investment promotion efforts    CEI has been focused better on export remove administrative barriers and                                                          in
promotion; government agreed to the improve the investment climate on the
launch of an Adminustrative Barriers  basic of prior assessments have bees                                                         X
Assessment and to an Investment  completed
Climate Assessment
Low technical skills reduce                                     Developed a demand-driven technical
Nicaragua's attractiveness for foreign                          education and training strategy that
investors                                                       addresses the needs of investors and                                                               V
cluster development objectives,
including the redefinition of
INATECs role
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                Page 1 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(T_he highligh ted measures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)                            4
ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS 
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                                   AC                       PRSSBN                            PRSC-II                       OUTCOMES
Weak property rights limit investor  Subnmitted draft of the General Law of National Assembly approved the                           High proportion of lands in three   EL
confidence, leave indigenous      Public Registries to the National  General Law of Public Registries                                priority areas, as agreed with      I
communities disprotected and      Assembly                                                                                           Government under the PRODEP         E
promote environmentally damaging                                                                                                     project, are titled, registered and
practices                                                          Submitted to the National Assembly a National Assembly approved the  without pending disputes, encouragsng
draft Cadastre Law that renders the  Cadastre Law, rendering the cadastre increased private investment,  (
cadastre and real estate regisny data  and real estate registry data  productivity gains and income growth  I
compatible, estabhshed national  compatible; established integrated  pa
directorate of registries under the  Registry-Cadaster information system
Supreme Court                    (SIICAR) in 3 regions agreed with
Government under the PRODEP                                          Z
project                                                              Z
Submitted draft law to National  Approval by National Assembly of                                                                      <
Assembly for demarcafing and titling  law for demarcating and titling of                                                               Z
indigenous and ethnic communities  mdigenous and ethnic communities'                                                                   1S
lands in Atlantic Coast region (1998) lands in Atlantic Coast region                                                                   <
Completed demarcation and titing  Completed demarcation and titling in
in at least 5 indigenous communities at least another 5 indigenous
in the Atlantic Coast & Bosawas  communities in the Atlantic Coast &
region                           Bosawas region; completed 70h of                                    iL
the demarcation and consolidation of
protected areas in regions agreed with
the govemment under the PRODEP
project
The public sector's agricultuml and                                                                 Reviaed the productive rural sector Increased economic activity in rural
forestry policy is weak; it does not                                                                pollcy and developed a sector-wide  areas by improving competitiveness o
promote an efficient assignment of                                                                  investment program, with speclal  the nral sector.
public resources to the sector as                                                                   reference to the agricultural                                        a
needed to create wealth in nural areas                                                              technology and forestry sectors, that
and attract private investment                                                                      is conaistent with the                                               O
macroeconomic program, in broad                                      i.
consultation with the private sector,
donors and NGOs.
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                       Page 2 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(The hi highted mea       refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triers for subsequent PRSCs or PSAC
ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                                  AC                                                                                        OUTCOMES                    0
The current role of the Agricultural  INTA adopted operational    Competitive fund for technical
Technology Institute (INTA) is not  regulations and by laws to    assistance services (FAT) is operating.
consistent with the vision of creating a encourage the creation of a market
market for service providers     for providers of agricultural
technology services; FUNICA has                                                                                                         2
been created to, inter alia,                                                                        INTA is reposstioned more effectively  0
administer a competitive fund to                                                                    as a second-tier service provider,
tsnance agricultural ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  agricultural and en vironmental
iriance pgricutltural services                                                                      atvisar opited within a
(FAITAN)                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pluralistic innovation systemn
Unclear legal framework in foresuy  A draft Forestry law that provides a  The Forestry law has been approved
iniubits sector investments      market-oriented framework for private by the Nattonal Assembly and the
investors has been submitted to the  corresponding regulations have been
National Assembly                sasued
Regulabons for the National
Environment Fund (FNA) have been  The National Environment Fund
approved by the National Assembly  (FNA) is operating, a Board of the
FNA has been nominated and the
Directors have been appointed                      _
Greater cormnutment to private sector The Government has divested 51  Completed divestiture of EN17EL  Signuficantly increased private sector Significant expansion of telecom
participation needed to improve  percent of ENITEL shares; ENEL's                                   participation in electricity generation  network and power generation
investor confidence              power generating operations have
been assigned to four suncessor
companies of ENEL, two of whicb h)
have been either sold to the private
sector or are being operated by the
private sector
Unclear policies on promoting and                                 Re-structured and strengthened the Application of funding/subsidy  Improved access to electricity and
subsidizing rural electrification and                              rural electrifieation fund (FODIEN) allocation has been demonstrated in  telecom services by low income
telecom services inhibits investments                             and created the telecom investment several private or community operated populations for equitable development  Z
in these services                                                 fund (FrITEL); established dear   rural services                                                       Z
policy on long term funding and                                                                        2
-   --                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~0
allocation mecbanisms of subsidies
for both programs                                                                                      wi
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                       Page 3of 12



Annex A
_
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS                                                                                                      c
('he highlighted meas res refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)
ACTION AREA                         ISSUE                                      ACTIONS AND PROGRESS                                      PRSC-II                        OUTCOMES
Launched bidding process for private Completed rural electrification
provision of electricity in El Ayote; projects in at least S villages around
developed long term solution for the Francia SirpawRAAN
ownership and management of ENEL
rural assets (ENEL-Plantas aisladas) in                                                                  UJ
ways that wsll enhance quality and                                                                      Zt
coverage of electricity in the rural
communsties [pending ]
Road transport costs are high due to ill Launched a road maintenance fund to Prepared legal amendment  Approved legal amendment and issued Significant reduction of transport costs
maintained roads                  establish a sustainable road      establishing road fund financing  'reglamento                       for Nicamguan exports/impons
maintenance system; advanced      mechanism and completed COERCO
program of mtionalization of state-  rationalization progran
owned construction companies                                                                                                              F
('COERCOs') to transport minmstryE
High port/shipping costs reduce                                     Completed logistic audit to deternnine Implemented plan to reduce cargo
competitiveness                                                     cost and time delays associated with  costs
inbound and outbound cargo
Lack of competition policy framework Government agreed on launch of a  Completed diagnostic analysis of  SatisfactoTy implementation of action
inhibits sector development       Competition Assessment            competition policy framework,     plan, including adoption of new                                        o
developed a plan of action with   competition framework
strategic option; prepared draft
competition framework law
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(The highlighted meas es refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)                                c
ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                                  AC                         PRSC-I                           PRSC-II                        OUTCOMES
_
Strengthening the Financial Weak financial system is vulnerable to                         Developed a legal and regulatory  Government prepared an action plan
System                   crises from extenmal sources or                                   framework for non-bank micro-    to address key areas of vulnerability                                 z
deficiencies in corporate govemance                               finance institutions, and defined  identified in pnor diagnostic studies                               r
institutional responsibilities for their  and has initiated implementation of
supervision, which encourages a better the action plan
provision of rural financial services
without weakening the supervision of
Lack of access to financial services in                           other bank and non-bank financial  Implemented the new system      Create the appropriate environment
rural areas impedes production and                                institutions, the authorization of non-                            for facilitating a significant increase in
umproved productivity                                             bank micro-finance institutions to                                 the flow of rural financial services
accept deposits from the public under
this framework remains subject to the                                                                  E
same strict requirements applicable                                                                    co
under the current legislation to                                                                       Q
commercial banks and non-bank                                                                          rn
financial institutions
Complete Pension System  Incomplete pension reform threatens  Created a new Superintendency of  Appointed a new Superintendent of Completed pending parametric  Establishment of an actuarially    2
Reform                  to become fiscal burden and       Pensions and established its legal  Pensions; streamlined the      reforms applicable to traditional  sustainable pension system and     o
undermines confidence            basis.                           organizational structure and      pension system, completed        increase in long term domestic       X
staffing of the Superintendency of  restructuring of the soaial security  savings                      aL
Pensions in line with fscal budget  institute (INSS), and completed the
constraints; awarded licenses to two transfer of eligible social security
private fund manager; completed  contributions to the new pension                                      co
information campaign on new pension system                                                             uu
system                                                                                                 n
Co-
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                       Page 5 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS                                                                                               0
(The highlighted measures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)
ACTION AREIACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                                O                         -
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                            PSAC                           PRSC-1                          PRSC-11                       OUTCOMES                   t
-J
Investink}n1unlan      lpiaPl and Ptetecting'the Most VulferabWe(P)(P Pill            ,ff&   j IV)             ;         ._.
Improving the effectiveness The traditional, centmlly managed  School Autonomy Law (Ley de  Implementation of School Autonomy  Implementation of School Autonom  Increase in the number and percentage
efficiency and equity of  education system has not been  Participacion Educativa, No. 413)  Law underwaay: agreement reached  Law: substantial progress made in  of students complettng primary
public resources for    effective in generating educational  and its regulation (Decreto 46-2002) with IDA on qualitative and  meeting agreed targets; the "School education with improved learning and
education               reform; The Govemnment of Nicaragua were approved by the National  quantitative targets; Program" School Autonomy for Results" program  without repeating grades; primary
has devised a strategy for       Assembly and signed by the       Autonomy for Results" has led to  extended to cover at least 70  completion mte increased from 41%
improvement based on substantial  President trained 2800 school  effective engagement of school   municipalities; transferred     in 2002 to at least 44% in 2005,
increase in social accountability  council members on their      councils and local authonties in a  additional schools from the   improvement in classroom processes,
through local school councils    responsibilities under the new law  process of school improvement in at  traditional to the autonomous  including active parent engagement;
and its regulation; 20,000 copies of least 35 mumcipalities; trnsferred  system in accordance with program  increase in the percentage of schools
new law published and distributed  additional schools from the traditional target; Adequate financial transfers that meet agreed quality standards
to school councis parents, and  to the autonomous system in      and resources provided to schools
education staff; 50% of public   accordance with prograr target;  for infrastructure, didactic
schools receiving direct fmancial  adequate financial transfers and  materials, training and pedagogical
transfers as provided under the  resources provided to schools for  and administrative support
School Autonomy Law and its     infrastmcture, didactic matenals and                                                                 w
regulation for managing schools,  school libraries, training and
and said schools have been given  pedagogical and administrative
and are exercising the power of  support
hiring and firing teachers; a pilot
program to analyze the effeeb of
implementing the School Autonomy
Law and its regulation is being
implemented
Results from first National Student  Results from second National Student
Assessment published and discussed  Assessment published and discussed                               us
Established local networks for  Completed evaluation of the      Increase in the percentage of teachers
identification, dissemination, and  functioning of local networks in terms who meet requirements regarding
adoption of best practicrs, as  of identifying, disseminating, and  knowledgc of basic contents and
permitted under existing resource  adopting best pracices        pedagogical techniques              o
envelope                                                                                             W
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(Mhe highlighted measures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSAC i.)__
ACTION AREA  issue                                    ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                        O
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                             PAPRCIRS-IOUTCOMIES                                                                                                        0
PSAC                            PRSC-I                           PRSC-ll4)
Developed teacher assessment system  First implementation of teacher  Increased accourtabihty of teachers
assessment system
Education for All - Fast Track   initiated sector-wide approach under                               Sector-wide approach promotes better
Initiative (EFA-FTI) strategy for  the Ministry of Education, in                                    coordinated and more cost-effective
itmproving donor coordination agreed  collaboration with donors and NGOs.                          investnent in education
with local donor community
Improving basic health   Tightbudgetary imitations require  Approval byNational Asemblyof  Implementation of General Health  General Health Law under         Strengthening of stewardship
indicators and improving  that significant improvements in  General Heatth Law (Ley General  Law: issued regulations for the  implementation, as evidenced by (i)  functions of MINSA and improved
child nutrition.         quality and coverage and patient  de Salud); Implemented a results-  General Health Law, together with  application of nomis for integrated  system effectiveness; increase m the
satisfaction of health services can only based management system for basic norms related to (i) integrated care  care model in six SILAIS, (ii)  coverage of pre-natal and well-baby
come about through a joint effort to  bealth care in 13 municepalities  model and (ii) the organization,  approval of a national health plan, and care by 10% in targeted
increase the health sector budget and                             structure and roles of SILAIS;   (id) preparation of norms, manuals  municipalities; improved efficiency
sector reforms to strengthen                                      tmplemented results-based         and implementation plan related to the and effectiveness of basic care
institutional roles and improve                                   management system for basic health  contributory, non-contributory and  services
efficiency in semce delivery                                      care in 25 municipalities; approved  voluntary regimes; implemented
policy on decentralized management  results-based management system for
and govemance of public hospitals  basic health care in 40 municipalties;
at least two hospitals are operating
according to decentralized
management and governance policy
The tack of a uniform prinary health  Methodology for the evaluation of  Evaluation of the main PHC programs The mest cost-effective PHC model
care package results in duplication of PHC programs has been defined  has been carried out to identify the  has been identified and a plan has                           ci
efforts and higher costs                                          most cost-effective model         been initiated to replace the existing                               z
PIRC models witt the identified
model
Equity gaps in MINSA financing and                                Completed analysis of organization  Approved plan to eliminate hidden  Improved equity of health financmg
resource allocation                                               and resource flows for 'differeniated  subsidies to middle- and high-income
services in MINSA hospitals      groups in MINSA hospitals
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                       Page 7 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(1he higbligted measures refer to proposed p*ior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)
ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHM~IARKS
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                            PSAC                ,                                          PRSC-I                        OUTCOMES                    to
-J
Serious gaps in coverage of water and The estimated percentage of the  Developed a national strategy for  Revised the existing national  Increase national coverage of water
sanitation represent major obstacle for total national population served by  expanding water & sanitation  investment plan for next 3 years  service from 70% in 2001 to 75% in
improving health indicators      potable water connecions hns    coverage, induding targets for areas (including ENACALs investment  2005, and national access to sanitation
Increased by at leant 1.4 percentage of extreme poverty.         plan) to increase water & sanitation from 86% m 2001 to 88% m 2004  ui
points per year In each of 2000 and                              coverage, in line with National                                     co
2001; the percentage of the total                                Strategy to meet PRSP targets
nadonal population with access to
sanitatlon services has increased by
0.7 percentage points per year over
the period 1998-2001
Reinstated the National Commission
for Potable Water and Sanitation
(CONAPA) and included SECEP and                                                                      O
FISE                                                                                                 0
Developed national standards for rurl Met PRSP targets to uncrease water &                           n
water and sanitation investments  sanitation coverage                                                I
0
Strengthening reproductive Nicaragua's population growth is                               Defined a reproductive health program Satisfactory implementation of  Increased percentage of women that
health programs.        among the highest in the region and                              that improves access to reproductive  Reproductive Health Program in 16  have access to reproductive health
mainly reflects high birth rates among                           health services, especially by the poor. municipalities           services in targeted municipalities
the poorest families.
Introducing an effective  Lack of a coherent approach to social Presented a draft conceptual  Social Protection Strategy approved Satisfactory progress in implementing Increase in coverage of targeted
system of Social Protection protection dilutes impact of current  framework for the design of the social by the Cabinet, induding an  Social Protection Strategy and  intervention for key vulnerable groups
programs.                        protection policy of Nicaragua   inplementatlon plan and         implementation plan              and extreme poor
designation of institutional
responsibilities; adeqmate funding
for implementation of strategy                                                                       w
provided in budget as per agreemen                                                                   w
with IDA
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                    Page 8 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATREI: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS                                                                                                c
(lbe highlighted mear es refer to povposed pior actions for the PSAC, and to lending trigers for subsequent PRSCs or PSAC;)
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                                   ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMEARKS
PSAC                            PRSC-1                          PRSC-llOUCME 
Children 0-3 years old are the most  SECEP has identified the following  SECEP has analyzed the evaluations  SECEP presented an ECD strategy  Significant reduction of stunting and
wiprotected and most vulnerble  indicators for the evaluation of the  of the three progamms usirg the  and a progress report on the  of incidenoe of acute respiratory
population group                 PROCOSAN pilot (MINSA). Red de  identified indicators, and, together  implementation of the action plarL  infections and diarrhea in childrean.
Proteccion Social pilot         with MINSA, developed the elements                                under 5; increased coverage of ECD  r.
(MIFAMtFISE), and PAININ model  of an Early Childhood Development                                 services                           o
(MIFAM)]: (i) coverage of complete  (ECD) strategy based on that                                                                     W
immunization schemne, (u) prevalence evaluation, with as acDon plan for                                                              2
of anemia, and (in) height for age.  adjustng ad expanding programs, in                                                             nCO
line with the govemment budget
Improving Public Financial Weak financial management systems The GON, through the Minister of  An inter-institutional Memorandum of Satisfactory implementation of the  Improved transparency in the use of
Management              prevent adequate control over public  Finsnce, expressed a commitmnent to  Understnding to setup a worldng  CFAA action plan, an documented  public resources
expenditures and reduces impact of  discuss and implement an action plan group that follows up on the action  by quarterly reports provided by
public expenditures              based on the findings of the Country  plan has been signed; financing  inter-institutional working group.
Finnciaa Acconotability Assessment sources for the CFAA action plan are                                                               a
(CFAA)                          fully identified; the inter-instituitional
working group has prepared first
progress report on implemnentation of
the plam
Implemented SIGFA budget        Completed design and implementation The government completed      Significant increase in the share of
formulation and execution nnd   of the SIGFA Treasury module;    implementation of the SIGFA      donor resorces channeled through the
occounting modules in 31 central  completed design of the procurement, procurement, hiunan resources and  Single Treswury account allowing
governmcnt agendes and          human resources and physical assets  physical assets modules      better accounting and coordmation of  r-
institutions; budget exeeution  modules; reengineered the SIGFA                                   projects.
figures are accessible through  process within the Ministry of Finance
Internet
Inadequate donor coordination   Introduced Single Treasury account  Initiated the introduction of a Single Single Treasury account in operation
enrcourages over-investment and  for all domestic public revenues and  Treasury account for both domestic for all domestic revenues and                               a.
diffuses development effort      expenditures                    and externally funded public     expenditures, and for a significant                                 I
revenues and expenditures.       share of all externally-funded public                               :
resources
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                    Page 9 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(The highlighted meacures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)                              <1
ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                                                    0
ACTION AREA                         ISSUE                                                                                                                            OUTCOMES                   m
PSAC                            PRSC-1                            PRSC-11                      OUCME 
0
-J
At least 4 sector coordination groups  Initiated pilot sector-wide approach in                        ri
a
.mesas sectorial' have been      at least one sector                                                  u<
established to coordinate sector
development efforts                                                                                   tr
Large procurement reform program m The Minister of Finance has expressed Maintaineod the coordiating  Maintained the coordinaing     Successful completion of procurement
place, but weak coordination among  a commitment to establish an   mechanism and an adequately staffed mechanism and an adequately staffed reform program
implementing and executing agencies adequate coordinating mechanism  implementation unit for the overall  implementation unit for the overall
(MHCP, Office of Public Ethics)   (steering committee) for planning,  procurement reform progiam    procurement reform program
lImits the prospects of successful  coordinating and momtoring the
reform implementation             implementation of the activities
involved in the overall procurement
reform program, and has taken initial
steps for its establishment
Procurement law needs further     Agreed on preparation of the country  Based on the CPAR findings, agreed  Continued implementation of the  Establishment of an efficient and
isnprovements and regulatory and  procurement assessment report    on a set of actions to frther improve  agreed action plan         -rnsparent procurement system, in
independent ovesight agencies are  (CPAR)                          the procurement system, in                                        line with intemnational practices,
weak                                                               coordination with the IDB funded                                  resulting in a noticeable decline in  a.
reform program; initated                                           procurement times and costs.
implementation of the action plan.
Creating an adequate HIPC Proper tracking mechanism for HIPC  The FSS Coordinating Committee  Presented quarterly reports on  Regular presentasion of satisfactory  Clear accounting of the sources and
Tracking Mechanism       debt relief is needed to secure benefits has approved the regulations for  recommendations of FSS   quarterly reports                uses of HIPC debt rehef
under HIPC Initiative             tracking and accountdng of all funds Coordmating Council, and tracking
made available to the            the evolution of(i) HIPC debt relief,
Supplementary Soedal Fund (FSS), (ii) all funds channeled through FSS,                                                                  rL
including EIPC debt relief funds  (iii) total spending on poverty-                                                                      I
received by Nicaragua            reduction (PRSP) projects, and (iv)
oveall public sector spending
Presented report on use of HIPC  Prepared satisfactory report on use of Prepared report on use of HIPC debt
Interim debt relief received in 2001  HlPC debt relef received in 2002  relief received in 2003
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                      Page 10 of 12



Annex A
_
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS
(lhe highlighted measures refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs.)
ACTION AREA     ISSUE                                  ~~~ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                        OUCOE
ACTION AREA                        ISSUE                             PSAC                            PRSC-I                            PRSC-II                       OUTCOMES
J
Improving Public         Traditional, single-year budget system                            Calculated the recurrent cost     Completed preparation of a multi-  Significant reduction in the difference  EL
Expenditure Planning and  inhibits adequate public expenditure                             implications of the Public        year fiscal budget               between fiscal budget and budget    v
Management               planming                                                          Inveatment Program, and initiated                                  execution figures and more accurate  o7
plans to create a Medium Term                                      accounting of recurrent costs
Expenditure Framework                                                                                  I
Submitted to the Assembly a dmft  Law approving new Budget
Budget Faimework law to enable a  Framework has been passed                                            o
multi-year budgeting framcwork
Deficient monitoring and evaluation  Initiated design of a system to monitor Completed preparation of a  Satisfactory implementation of  Improved resource allocation and
systems perpetuate the existence of  the progress made toward achieving  satisfactory Monitoring and  Monitoring and Evaluation System,  project selection in the public sector
obsolete and ineffective progrms  PRSP objectives (SINASIP)       Evaluation System, which includes  yielding periodic reports on progress
criteria for targeting resources and for toward achieving PRSP objectives; the                        ui
project selection and evaluation;  systems institutional coordination                                  Li
initiated implementation of new  arrangements are functioning well                                     CO
system
Weak mechanisms to clear public  Issued Presidential Decree (SNIP  Regulations for Presidential Decree  Government took actions in   Improved pnoritization of public
investment projects inhibits     Decree) to obigate all new public  have been issued and a strategic plan accordance to strategic plan to  sector projects
expenditure pnoritization        investment projects to a technical  for SNIP has been developed    strengthen SNIPs capacity to design                                  r.
review and clearance by the National                              and evaluate public investment                                        v
System of Public Investment (2001)                                projects                                                              CO
The development planning process  Prepared PRSP Progress Report    Completed Poverty and Social Impact Prepared a revised PRSP,      Institutionalization of participatory  L
remams haphazard despite succeasful                               Analysis (PSIA)                   incorpormting the findings of the PSIA PRSP process                  ,u
preparation of first PRSP                                                                                                                                                uJ
Reforming the Civil Service Inadequate skill composition of public Submutted draft Civil Service Reform  National Assembly approved law                       Improved skill composition of public  -
labor force creates low labor    Law to the National Assembly (1999), establishing a new ment-based system                           employees and more equitable civil   a)
productivity Lack of proper      to mmprove the quality of public  for civil servants in executive branch                            service pay structure                s
framework inhibits development of  administration services                                                                                                               X
professional, adequately-paid civil                                                                                                                                       t
service                                                                                                                                                                  >
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                      Page 11 of 12



Annex A
POLICY MATRIX: GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRESS INDICATORS                                                                                                      =
(Tbe bighlighted meas res refer to proposed prior actions for the PSAC, and to lending triggers for subsequent PRSCs or PSACs )
ACTION AREA                         ISSU E                                     ACTIONS AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS                                                          OUTCOMES
ACTION AREA        ISSUE                            ~~~~~~~~~~PSAC                    PRSC-1IRC1
Defined public sector human resource Implemented new public sector huma 
policy in line with Civil Service Law  resource policy within institutions
covered by the Law
Revised local market pay scales and  The Ministry of Finance agreed to  Advanced signuficantly in
remuneration practices in 4 pilot  establish and began to implement a implementing merit-based program to
public sector institutions        new merit-based pay scale policy  fill positions with staff of appropriate
adapted to market conditions, that  competencies and revised pay scales
eliminates internal inequities, and is
consistent with overall fiscal
envelope and public sector reform                                                                       I
objectives                                                                                               E
Initiated review of public sector  Completed review of all executive
positions and classirication of   branch positions and competencies,
competencies to staff themL      issued manual of positions based on
this review
Strengthenung local      Clearer policy commsittnent by central                              Government adopted a non-         Submitted draft law to establish the  Municipalities can count on a
govenmments              govemment toward decentralization is                                discretionary (formula-based)     new framework for fiscal transfeTs to  predictable flow of funding, enabling
needed to move decentralization                                     framework for transferring        the National Assembly             a more effective delivery of municipal  O
process forward; lack of fiscal                                     financial resources to                                              services and local development      tL
resources limits municipalities'                                    municipalities; completed evaluation                                coordination, including natural     Z
capacity to provide services for which                              of a pilot financial transfer                                       resources management
they are responsible by law                                         mechanism (FONDEM) and
discussed it with key stakebolders
Completed National Decentralization  The Cadastre law approved by the
and Local Development Policy in   National Assembly (see Pillar 1)
consultation with civil society,  encompasses municipal cadastres for                                   U..
INlFOM and other stakeholders     local revenue generation                                              Z
Completed 10 municipal community  Completed another 10 municipal    Increased awareness of importance
investment plans that take into   community investment plans that take and increased application of practices  il
account the Atlantic Biological   into account the Atlantic Biological  for biodiversity conservation   E .
Corridor Initiative, community    Corridor initiative, community    especially, in indigenous communities  M
priorities and INTFOM/FISE        priorities and INIFOM/FISE                                            0
guidelines.                       guidelines                                                            Z
December 16, 2002                                                                                                                                                                         Page 12 of 12



ANNEX B
Letter of Development Policy






aftdvhWfo de M(adeor4 y CnWtow !6&a
December 12, 2002
MHCP-DM-E-09998-1 2-02
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Developmernt Assoclation
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
LEFE OF DEWELOPMENTPOLICY
Deor Mr. Wolfensohn:
I am writng to request on behalf of the Government of the Repulic of Nlcaragua, a
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) of US$ 156 milllon equlivaent In support
of our poverty reduction strategy, which is descrlbed In the paper tflled Strengthened
Growt and Poverty Reduction Strategy (SGPRS). The SGPRS was prepared In July 2001
and reviewed by the Boards of the Internatlonal Development AssoclatIon (DA) and
the International Monetary Fund In September 2001. A first Progress Report of the SGRPS
hos Just recently been completed and Is belng submitted to bolh instHutlons under
separate cover. This letter describes the actions that the Government plans to
unclertake over the nmedium term to Implement the strategy, focusing particularty on the
meosures that we believe will contrbute most to a sustainable decline In poveriy. In
addition, I refer you to the 'PSAC Pollcy Mcotrix-, which was prepared In colloboratlon
with the IDA team and other donors and that sots out the contents of this letter in
summary form,
The PSAC Policy Matrix reflects a priortizaaion process with respect to the various actions
and outputs described In the SGPRS. Completion of the actions and oututs shown In
bold typeface in the matrix by December 2002 is considered crillcal to the success of
our program. therefore, we propose these actlons and outputs as specific benchmarks
for the PSAC. The remoining actions and outputs represent our vWlon of the ongoing
process and our best current estimate of actions and outputs that will be cardied out
and demonstrate the ongoing success of our reform process during the subsequent
three years.
rT " 7Q61 K   FM OM22240S



Od6teri~o dezdmda N Cr64itV N6&o
Mr. Jwnes D. Wolfensohn
December 12. 2002
MHCP-DM-E-0998-12-02
Page 2
Background and Rcenw Developments
The overdding objective of Government policy Is the reduction of poverty In Nicaragua,
The ability to achieve that objective, however, has been hampered by a series of
important events over the last two years that have affected Nicaragua's medlum-term
economic oullook, the political situatilon, and efforts to constrain public spendilng. The
first Progress Report of the SGPRS which accompanies this lefter explains these
developments In detall, together with the odjustments belng made to place the
economic program on a path of medium- and long-term sustalnabillty that is consistent
wlth the objectives of stoblilty. economic growth and poverty reduclion, The Progress
Report also descrtbes the main advances made In reducing poverty and meeting the
social Indicator targets that the Govemment has set for tself In the SGPRS. I am pleased
to be able to report that sIgnIficant advances have taken place. in spite of a difficult
economic and polMcal environment.
The new government. which took offlce on January 10. 2002 has given much attention
to Improvlng governance, and Innioted a serdes of judiial investigatlons and
proceedings related to acts of corruption. These efforts have led to pollticol ffiotlons
that may have slowed down temporarily the rate of advance In the Implementation of
some other aspects of the reform program. but the Government Is convinced that these
efforts will ultImately succeed In creating a more proptious environment for reducing
Nicaragua's poverty.
The Refom Program
The SGPRS rests on four plilars: broad bosed economic growth wlth an emphasis on
productive employment generatlon and rural development, greater and better
Investment in the human capItal of the poor, better protection for vulnerable
populaifons, and the strengthenlng of Insittutions and good governance. (These four
pillars are Intertwined with three cross-cutllng themes: a reductlon In environmental
degradrtion and ecological vulnerability. an increase In soclal equlty and further
decentraliztion.) The selected policy reform measures set out below are grouped
under the same four pillars.
EdMMMO CO odeoov C6do Kic



Midar7io de2iiHdazta y CeMtoF f686
Mr. James D. Woitensohn
DecMboer 1 Z 2002
MHCP-OM-E-09998-12.02
Page 3
FirAt PRSP Pilar -oad-Based Economfc Growth and Structural Reform
This pillar rests on four broad lines of action: () restoring and maintaining a stable
macroeconomlc fraimework. (Hi) Improving the private Investment clirnacte, CID promoling
rural development, and iv) strengthening the financial sector. Ncaragua now has the
highest fiscal and current account defictis In Latin Amerco and international reserves
hove declined to precarious levels. so thot the restoration of an appropriate
mocroeconomic framework is a fundamental precondillon for ochieving broad-based
growth in a sustained fashion. Most Importantly, this vwiI requIre significant flscol
adjustments. on both the revenue and expenditure sides, as outlined In our Letter of
Intent to the IMF.
The government's development policy calLs for the private sector, both local and
forelgn to lead Investment, productlon, job creation and exports, with public sector
support. Efforts to Improve the private Investment clirmte revolve around several lines
of action, namely carrying out a focused investment promotion at the local and
International levels, Improving productive Infrastructure with private sector partcipatlon.
strengthening property rights, and clarifying the 'rules of the game' for investors while
eliminating market distortions. To Improve the country's productive Infrastructure the
country alms to conclude the prNivtization of the energy and telecommunicatlon
uLiltes, clevelop a sutainable system for road maintenance and apply a cluster
development approach In the planning of public Investments, To clarify the rules of the
game, the government will prepare a compeHftfon pollcy and engage In a serles of free
trade agreements that will strengthen Nicaragua's ties to Its rnain trading partners In the
region and outside. To foster rural development, the government hopes to strengthen
rural financial markets and strengthen the agricultural extenslon and commerclc1izc2tion
serAces. Finally, the government recognizes that Nicaragua's financial system currently
Is unable to mobilize the long-term savings needed to finance long-term Investments
and currently represents a mdjor source of vulnerability to crses Iggered by Internal or
external shocks. To strengthen the financlol system, the Government plans to request
support from the Internatlonal Development Assodation and the International Monetary
Fund In the preparatlon of a detailed diagnosis of the sector and the IdentIficatlon of
sector-strengthening measures, throurgh their FlnancIal Sector Acdustment Program,
FSAP. Finolly. in addltion to preparing the basis for the emergence of long-term svings.
the reformed pension system will have the added benefis of gMng pensioners a more
clependable source of future Income than the current system and of eliminating a
potentlally destabIlizIng source of fiscal losses.
ERwto Mmtrdo do delandf y 06dt> PXco     9
Wrogua Nlcaogua
lel A5so 222-761 - J0K (5 222,=3



finisio de 36Weda y Cdd* "Om
MW. Janes D. Wolfensohn
DecOmber 12. 2002
MHCP-DM-E-09998-1 2-2
Pag. 4
To achieve the objectives envisioned under this pillar, the government has
* Implemented an appropricte macroeconomic framework, which served as a
bosis for reaching agreement with the IMF on a new PROF arrangement,
* prepared a report on poverty-focused and overall public spending executed In
2001, to be used as baeline for future expenditure monitorlnrg purposes.
* launched a study to deterrine problems and prlority actions for selected
business dusters,
* created a speciolized Investment promotion commission (Pro-Nicaragua) to
enhance investment promotion effort
* agreed to the launch and facilitated an Investment climate assesment, an
odministrative borriers assessment, and a competMon assessment,
 submitted to the Nhaifonal Assembly a cdcraft Public Registres Law to strengthen
decentralzed real estate reogistres.
 adopted operational guidelines and by-lows for INTA to encourage the creaflon
of a market for providers of agricultural technology services, 4and created the
Technology and Forestry Development Foundction (FUNICA) to administer, Inter
caia, a compettIe fund for agricultural seivices, FAITAN.
* submItted to the National Assembly a draft Forestry Law that alms to provide a
market oriented framework for private Investors In the sector,
* divested 51 percent of the state telecommunicatHons company, ENITEL. and
assigned ENEL's power genercfflng operations to four successor companies of
ENEL two of which have been either sold to the private sector or are being
operated by the private sector,
* launched a road maintenance fund and proceeded to rationalizs the use of
state-owned construction companies (COERCOs) in the transport ministry
* created a new Superlntendency of Pensions, while establishing the legal basis for
a reforted pension system.
Further steps that the government Is planning to carry out or promote In the medium
term Include
* increasing the share of total government expenditures devoted to poverty
reduction programs in agreement with IDA and other donors,
developing and Implementing a cluster developing strategy and plan of actlon
ogreed with the private sector ancd the Presidential Competltiveness Commission.
accomponied by an dermand-drven training strategy that addresses the needs
of investors and cluster development obJectives,
EcSItIo MttoF do HoS61do y Or6dta Ptl Wc
Tel(G)  2706  - Fa   S   2233



ol. OfJ .-
M1inuiiso de Hadeudaky CW%dik bft&
Mr. James D. Woltensohn
Decenber 12. 2002
MHCP-DM-E-09998-12-02
Pcage 5
developing a productive rurad sector pollcy and a sector-wide Investment
program that is corsstent with the macroeconomic program, with speclal
reference to the agricultural technolgy and forestry sectors, In brood
consultation with the privote sector, donors and NGOs,
* passage of the laws to strengthen decentralized real estate registes and the
cadOstre, which will, among other, render compatible the cadostre and real
estate registry data,
* establishment of an operatrng competitive fund for rurol technical assistance
services (FAT)
* passage of the law for the dernarcatlon and tltling of Indigenous and ethnic
communitles In the Atlantic Coost region, and completing the demarcation of at
least 10 indigenous communities In the Atlanfic Coast and Bosawas region, and
of protected areas in regions agreed with IDA under the PRODEP project.
* cornpleting the divesliture of EMTEL and significantly expanding private
participation in eleciTicly generction, establishing clear policies on subsidization
in the sector, developing a long-term solution for the ownership and
management of ENEL's rural assets ('plantas aWladas') In ways that will enhance
quality and coverage of electricily In rural communifies,
* creating well-funciloning rural electrlflcation and telecomrnunicatrons funds. and
completing rural electrification projects in at least five villages around Francia
Slrpa/RAAN,
cormpletIng the set-up of a road maintenance mechanism and completing the
COERCO ratonalization program,
* taking measures on the basis of logilstic audits to reduce shipping costs
* developing a plan of action to improve compettion. including the design of a
new competltlon framework, and implementing it.
* preparng and implementing an action plan to address key areas of financial
sector vulnerablity Identitfied through the Financial Sector Assessment Program.
* developing a legal and regulatory framework for non-bank micro-finance
insitlulons, and deflning Instiutional responsibilities for thelr supervision, which
encourages a better provision of rural financlal services without weakening the
supervislon of other bank and non-bank finandcd Institutions, and such that the
aultiorizatlon of non-bank micro-flnance institutions to accept deposits from the
public under this framnework remalns subject to the same strCt requirements
applicable under the current legislation to commercial banks and non-bank
financlal Institutions, and
* concluding the pension reforrn process by awarding licenses to privote fund
managers, transferring all eligible social security contributions to the new vested
Edfldo Mkeflo 0 Hocldo C CdtO PObial    iL



AfiOn&Wo d%fadoda y Cnito TO&o
Mr. James D. Wotneso1n
December 12, 2002
MHCI-DI-E-09998-1202
Pag 6
system. completing the pending parametrc reforms applcabble to the traditional
pensions system and reforrning the Natlonal Pensions Insiltute (INSS).
Second Pillar - Greater and Beter lnwestrnent In Human iCa;tal
Under this pillar, the government seeks to increose the human cpitalt of the poor
through Investrnents in bosic education and technical training, preventive health care
at the prlmary level, child nuhiflon cnd a stronger populalion policy, In order to
enhance their productivty, Income and welfore. Structural reforms in the social sectors
are vital to the success of these efforts In view of very light budget constraints that force
the government to limit ih social budiet and look Instead for Inslmuonal strengthening
and operational efflclency gains. Two key ongoing decen1Tallzoon efforts that the
government seeks to enhance In the ecucation and health sectors Involve a balance
between the power of local autonomy and the need to provide an adequate
framework of Incentfves for quality and equity at the national level.
Education S egy
The educalion strategy focuses on the delivery of quality educatconal services that
would depend upon an adequate mechanism of Incentives to provide those services.
Central to the strategy Is an Initiative to provide financial and administralIve autonomy
to schools that would be more responsive to the local community that they serve.
backed up by a strong, centrally managed system that would ensure an adherence to
minimum qualIty standards, to capture spillover beneflts between decentralized units
and to ensure that equity objectives are not undermIned due to decentralIzation. In
addiHon to efforts to provide greater autonomy to schools, the government also plarns
to expand the coverage of preschool and make selective Investments In providing
access to school for children unable to attend early grades because of their distance to
the school site.
Additional Investments to improve schools and schooling would guarantee a mfnlmum
qualilty standard of schooilng Inputs, condcitons, and services for all schools, as well as a
program of Incentives to parent/school councils to steadly increase the quality of their
schools and achieve higher outcomes for their students. The curricula of the teacher
tralnng Instltutes are to be Improved and expanded to make them more relevant for
local needs,
For the Atlontic Coast, the PRSP emphasizes the continued use of instruction In the
mother tongue In the inmal grades while strengthening the cltdinment of Spanish
language proficiency: A series of studies are planned to assess the effecthveness and
EdfaOM V** asHOCO Ha y QCAdto PtOA
Mo     Ntccrogua
Tel (6W 222-7061 - fD OM 222M3          tA



tte,io dT                     o
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
Decemrber 12, 2002
MHCP-OM-E09998-12-02
POW 7
relevance of technical and tertiary education with a view toward possible reforms,
(Such reforms could become an Important engine for increasing productivity growth
and for widening the skills and adoptiviy of the workforce, both of which would
enhance privote sector growth and encourage FDI.) Finally, the PRSP proposes a family
subsIdy program to encourage very poor chIldren to attend primary school on a regular
basis.
The Government submitted a proposal for funding to the Secretacat of the Education
for All - Fast Track InHiiative (EFA-FTI) to pumue the goal of assurIng that by 2015 all
Nicorciguan children will obtain at least a complete. primary school education.
Nicaragua's proposed EFA-Fnl is built around a two-pronged strategy. Firstl It would
provide school councils of all of the nation's schools with resources, guidelines and
technical cssistance to raise the quallty of educatlon services, to guarantee adequate
learning for all of the children In thelr community, while holding school councils
accountabe for results. Second. the proposed plan would provide demand-side
subsidles through a scholarshp Incentive fud to help children from the poorest families
overcome hardships to enrolt In school and attend class dqily. The proposed program
would also promote the engagement of parents and cMvil society in the education
procoss, provide adcGquate educatlonal matcriad, streongthen education ocdministrcaHon
at aU levels and measure results. Representatives of the donor community have
recently formally agreed to support Nicaragua's EFA-Fn program and work Is now
proceeding to build the required capacity ond close the financing gap.
Health, Nutvion and Population Strategy
The health sector strategy contemplated in the PRSP focuses on Improved
implementatlon of the instHlflonal modernization process, increasing the coverage and
quallty of health services and on promoting behavioral changes at the household level.
The modernizctlon process focuses on improved manogement practices, Innovative
ways of providIng servces in remote areas, alternative systems for procurement and
distrlbution of medicines, the creatlon of specicl 'maternal houses' to improve access to
prenatal care and InstItutionalized births for women with obstetrlc risks, and a demand-
driven process to target health services. The expansion of coverage focuses particularly
on primary heaHh care and on women of reproducftve age, children and adolesents,
and will involve the creation, rehabilitation and equlpping of healit care units In rural
areas, together with the development of a cost effective package of basic services
which is to Inclucde reproductive health care services. Improving the patient referrad
system and explandIng provision of voccines at the primary level is also expected lto
contribute to o more efflclent delivery of services, To achieve behavioral changes, the
EdfidO MW\ten de HMendo V CrVDto FOtUco
MaroB L o a sOgua                   /
Tel(5 222-7MI - Fc (Mb 22,



Mk&wfte~o  ade 5&ckzi  CnMd?to !NO&
Mr. James D. Woffensohn
December 12. 2002
MHCP-DM-E-09998-12-02
Page 8
PRSP contempicates educatlon programs to Improve hygiene and nutrmon practices at
the community and household levels, In additlon to their inclusion In the prdmary
education curicula, In vlew of the Importance of access to safe water and sanitation
for good heolth and nutrition outcomes, the PRSP also contemplates major Inves1tments
to expand the nallonal coverage of water and sanitation services.
In nutrition, the stratey focuses on preventive rneasures directed at the chronic
malnutritlon problems of children under two years of age. It particuarly stresses family
and community actions and programs to encourage healthy diets, hygiene, preventive
health. and child/maternal care. Speclfic activities will concentrate on monitoring the
physical development of children, negotcating constructive feeding and food
prepacration praoctces at the household level, and disltlbuting vitamin supplements to
nursing and expectant mothers and to children
In popuLatlon, the strategy alms to Integrate reproductive health care into primary
health care services, to Inprove family plannlng, reduce mortality rates and strengthen
the basic social fabric, In addition, It aiso contemplates formal and Informcl education
programs, with the participation of NOOs, communlty leaders and municipalHies to
encourage self-esteem, responsible moternity and paternity, and family unity. These are
considered important for influencing behavioral potterns within familles and among
vulnerable groups to reduce domestic violence and family disintegrailon.
To achieve the improvements In socld Indicators envioned under this pllar and listed In
the SGPRS. the government has
* Inillated the Implementaton of actfvities envisioned under the school autonomy
law ('Ley de Partlicipacion Educatlvam), approved by the National Assembly in
2002, by training 2800 school council members on thelr responsibilities under the
law, disrlibutIng 20,000 copies of the law to all school councils, parents and
teachers. arranging for 60 percent of all public schools to receive direct financicI
transfers as provided under the school autonomy low and its 'reglamento' for
managing schools, and ensuring that these schools hove been given the powers
to hire and fire teachers, and carrying out a pilot program to analyze the effects
of Implementing the school autonomy low and Hi regulations,
* Implemented a resutis-based management system for basic health care in 13
munlclpalliies, as envIsioned under the General Health Law that approved by the
NaHonal Assembly In 202. and deflned a methodology to evaluate primary
health care progroms with a view toward racionalizing the different PHC
programs that ore currently In operation, and



MA&iqterAo de (adenda y CnAftio ft6hib&
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
December 1 2002
MHCFLDM-E 09998 12-02
Page 9
* Increased the esmimated percentage of the total national population served by
potable water connections by at least 1.4 percentage points per year In each of
2000 and 2001, and increased the percentage of the total populaclon with
access to sanitatlon servMces by 0.7 percentage points per year over the perlod
1998-2001.
Further steps that the government is planning to carry out or promote In the medium
term include
* Extending the 'School Autonomy for Resutts program to cover at least 70
municipolitles by 205 and progressively transferrlng additional schools from the
traditional to the autonomous system according to program targets, while
ensuring that the autonomous schools receive adequate financial resources for
infrastructure, didactic, tralning, pedagogical and adminisrtafive support. under
a modified school funding formula that gives schools the Incentive to increase
enrollment.
* carrying out a seris of National Stucdent Assessments to help In the adoption of
best practices In education and modlfy, and implement a system of
performance contracts with all schools,
* establishing local networks for identlflcatcon, dissemincaton and adoption of best
practices (as permitted under the given fiscal resource envelopes).
* developing and implementlng a teacher assessment system  to improve
accountabllty,
* Initiating a sector-wide approach under the Ministry of Education, In
collaboration with donors and civil society,
* implementing a resuls-based management system for basc health care In at
least 40 municipolltIes by 2004,
* replacing the existing PHC models by a single, most cost-effective model,
* designing and Implementing a plan to eliminate hidden subsidies to middle and
high-income groups in MINSA hospitcals,
* developing a natlonal strCrtegy for expanding water and sanitation coverage,
Including targesi for areas of extreme poverty. and revising the existing naHlonal
Investment plan for lhe next 3 years in line with this strategy to meet PRSP targets,
* reinstating the Natlonal Commission for Potable Water ond Sanitatlon (CONAPA),
with the Inclusion of SECEP and FISE, and developing national standards for rural
water and sanitation standards, and
* deining a reproductive health program that Improves access to reproductive
health services, especially among the poor, and Implementing It In 16
municipalities by 2004,
Pdtoo Pifat 1odet koomoo y Cr6ho P/ /A
TOI (Mb) MW   FCX CM) Z



M0dsteuio deHaciw& y Crdiao !N&o
Mr. Janres D. Wolfensohn
December 1Z 2002
MHCP-DM-E-099S-1 2-02
Page la
Third pillar - Beffer Protection forVUnerable Grups
This pillar seeks to guarantee access to basc social seMces for Nlcaragua's extreme
poor ancd protect them from natural and economic disasters that perpetuate poverty.
The government Is stil In the process of developing a soclal protection strategy and
Immediate efforts in this area have focused on a program that assists young children in
extremely poor households by encouraging thelr attendance in school and regular
medical vists for checkups and vaccinalions through incentives to their parents. This
program hos undergone a first piot phase, was assessed positively and is belng
expanded. As part of Ih longer term strategy, the government Intends to strengthen the
public institutions responslble for social safety nets, such as the Minstry of the Famrly, and
rationalizing the Inrstltonca roles of multiple entltles Involved In providIng services to
vulnerable groups. The desIgn of soclat protection programs Is being Improved, wtth
clearer targeting and monitoring mechanisms, and clear exit mechanisms to avoid
dependency. Related acHions Include efforts to Improve preparedness toward natural
disasters and mfglate their impact more effecthvely. as well as measures to strengthen
the Institutional capabilities of local governmenis and communmies to deal with disasters
and reduce vulnerabilty.
To achieve the objectives envisioned under this pillar, the government has presented a
draft conceptual framework for the design of the social protecilon policy of Nlcaragua,
and plans to
* have the Cabinet approve and implement a fiscally sustalnable social protection
strategy, Including an implementatlon plan and designacion of irnsttutional
responsibilities, while ensuring that the fscal budget provides adequate funding
for Its implementatHon, In agreement with IDA, and
* develop and Implement a strategy and action plan for early childhood
development (ECD), which Is based on an evaluation of the PROCOSAN
(MINSA), Red de Proteccion Soclal Q=ISE/MIFAM) and PAJNIN (MIFAM) programs.
giving speclal altentlon to children aged 0-3 that have been Identifled as being
among the most vulnerable population group.
Fourth Pllar - Good Governance gnd l1tigonl Develooment
The government has placed improved governance at the top of its oagenda. Under this
plilar, the government Is focusing on () consolidating Nicaragua's democracy by Mr.
EdfIcto Mstuo de Hactnnf y WtoO KIWoO
MalnoO4. NICCaGu                     4
T61(5 222-7061  V axr2(.3OS



James 0. Wotfensohen
December 12. 2002
MHCP-DM-E.09W8-12-02
Page II
developing strong independent Instllulons, especially the National Assembly, Judllory
and Comptroller General's office, and cdeveloping a better administratIon of law and
Justice C(ID improving financial management in the public sector. and the tronsporency
and provislon of timely information by the government. oh) fighting corruption and
strengthening ethical values, and promofing greater cMvil society partioipatlon In
government affairs.
Nlcaragua ranked 81d among 102 countries in the Tronsparency International's
Corruption Perceptions Index 2002, sending a strong negative signal to potential
investors Interested in exoandlng their operations In the country. The lack of trust In the
public sector's flnancial management Is a major obstacle to better aid coordination, as
each donor maintains separate (and cosIV project administation units. Inadequate
donor coorlincrion, in turn, is an Importont reason why the large amounts of foreign aid
that Nicaragua has received in the lost two decades has not had a greater Impact.
This pillar, therefore, plays a crltical roi in our efforts to promote faster, prIvate
Investment-led growth and to Increase the Impact of public expenditures.
To develop strong Independent Institutions and develop a better administration of law
and Justice, the Natlonal Assembly has approved the Penal Code Law, the
Reforms to the State Contracts Law and the AdmInistrative Contentlousness Law, while
the government Is Implementing a progrcam of strergthenIng the Judiciary that Inc<ludes
Implementation of these lcws and the preparation of an action plan based on the
recommendations made by the Presdenftal Commisslon for Reform of the Judiclary and
by CONPES. The governrnent also Is preparlng draft legislation to modify the OrganIc
Law of the Comptroller General's Office (CGR) and Initiation a modernization program
fInanced by the IDB, New Norms for Governmental Audit of the State have been
drawn up and published. and soon the audis by the CGR AIll be conducted through
the government's Integrated financial administration system.
To ensure greater transparency In publc financiol management and a stronger poverty
reducing impact or public expenditures, the government Is
. expressIng fts commitment, through this letter, to discuss and implernent cn
acilon plan based on the findIngs that will emerge from the Country Financlal
Accountability Assessment, and to establish and maintain an adequate
coordinarHng mechantsm (steering committee) for plannIng, coordinaling and
monitoring the Implementation of the octIvities involved In the overaRf
procurement reform program, while taldng inltal staps for Its establishment, The
Government also has,
Edc" Ln*eyo de i41o v C&Uo Potmoo
McioNoCuoNgu
Td OM) 7 i2.7O6I - F  ( 2224033



%OnA0e Yi4o de Jc H~~a deda y CriTfito q's aw
Mr. Jomes D. Wotfensohn
December 12a 2002
MHCP-OM-E-09998-10 2.
Pep 12
* Implemented the Integrated financlal management system (IlGFA) budget
formulofloriL budget execution and accounting modules In 31 central
government agencies and Institrions, and made the budget executlon fgures
accesslble through the internet.
* IrnWouced the single Treasury account as a channel for all domestic resources.
so that they con be better monitored.
* arranged for the Coordinating Council of the Supplementary Socda Fund (FSS) to
approve the regulatlons for frocldng and accounting of all funds made available
to the FSS. Including HIPC debt relief funds received by Nicarogua. prepared a
PRSP Progress Report, and prepared a report on the use of HIPC Intedm debt
relief In 2001,
* Issued a Presidential Decree In 2001 that obligates alg new public investment
projects to a technical review and clearance by the Natlonal System of Public
Investment (SNIP),
* initlated the process of deslgning a monitoring mechanism (SINASIP) to monitor
progress toward achieving PRSP objectives.
* revised public pay scales and remuneratlon proctices In 4 pilot insfflutlons, and
InMatled a review af public sector posMons and clssilficcaion of cornpetencies to
staff them In line wlth the clvil service reform program that is In the procoss of
Implementatlon.
To fight corruptlon, strengthen ethical values and Improve the participaton of cvill
society in public affirs the government has Instructed the Attorney General to
Investigate Irregularities In the monagement of public funds which has resuted In
judiclal proceedings (and some convictions) against several former and current pubilc
officials. An Office of Pubnlc Ethics was created In the Presidency, a Code of Ethics was
published for cMi seivants a Law of Probity wos passed, and the salaries of the top
pubric officlals were consolidated and made public. The participation of civil society in
publc affairs was strengthened through the Incluslon of new participants In the Natlonal
Econormic and Socld Planning Council (CONPES).
Additional steps contemplated by the Government to Improve governance and
strengthen public Institutions over the medium term include,
* Implementing the main recommendations emerging from the CFAA and CPAR
assessments. which Includes setling up a working group to follow up on the
action plans derived from both assessments. ldentlfying financing sources for the
Implementation of these plans and the preparation of perlodlc reports to
document Implementatlon progress.
Edflclo M.rflod I4 Hoojida o. Cr6dto FObeo
Ma a0 Neor a2
lel =iS VZ7DW   - Fall 0;) a224033 



seAh\
!%&4qwtio de X=Wufa y Cr64 fto g6&
Mr. James 0. Wotfensohn
Deocember 1I 2.02
MHCP4DM-E-09998-12-02
Page 13
 completlng the Implementcion of the SIGFA system and of the Slngle Treasury
Account for all domestc revenues and expenditures and a significant share of
externally funded public sector activities.
* strengthening aid coordinatcon mechanisms, among other, through the
establishment of at least 4 sector coordination boards Cmesas sectorlales'). and
1the initiatlon of a sector-wide approach (SWAp) in ot least one sector,
* the systemaiMc presentatlon of quarterly reports that track the evolution of HlPC
delbt relief and total externd alid flows, total spending on poverty reducing
programs and overall public sector spending, as contemplated In the FSS
Regulaiions,
* preparing and implementing an action plan to initoduce a medium-fterm
expenditure framework Including the calculation of recurrent cost impllcatlons of
the public Investment program. the pasge of a new Budget Framework Law to
enable a multi-year budgeting framework and the preparation of a multi-year
budget.
* completing a Poverty and Soclal Impact Anoays and Implementing a revised
SINASIP system, with periodic reports on progress toward achieving PRSP
objectives.
* passing the CvIl Service Reform Law, which Is to estabish a merit-based system
for acvii servonts in the execuitve branch, adopfing a new pubDlc sector human
resource policy In line with the Law for the insittullons covered by the Law, and
implementing a merit-based program to fill poslions wth staff of approoirlato
competencles and revised pay scales that ellninate Internal Inequities, In a
manner consistent wtth the overall fiscal envelope and public sector refarm
objectlves,
* strengthening local governments by Introducing a new regulatory framework for
non-discretionary financial transfers to municipaliltes and passing a new law on a
national comprehensive cadostre that Incorporates municipal cadastres for local
revenue generation, and the
* completion of at least 20 municipcD community Investment plans, taking Into
account the Atlantic Biological Corridor inItlative, community priorities, and
INIFOM and FISE guidelines.
Conckdos
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the Government's commitment to the
ImplementatHon of the Strengthened Growth ond Poverty Reduction Strategy. The
acilons to be undertaken over the medium term under each of the SGPRS pillars focus
on rneasures that will improve the overall development framework for private sector-led,
broad-based growth ancd raise the quantity and quality of public services avallable to
Ed1c o lWdt1 de Hioclando v Cdo PPWO
MaruO. MCr go
t? g5() 222-706I - Fox  2 MM33



II&isftdo k5fXadenk y CrAiti fl6fc
Mr. James D. Wolftnsohn
December 1 2002
MHCP-OM-E0998-12-02
Page 14
the poor. The requested Credit Is expected to support the critical reforms set out In this
letter and to enable the achlevement of the SGPRS objectives,
On behalf of the Government of Nlcaragua. I wlsh to thank ther Internamlonal
DeCvelopment Association for the ossistance it hcs provided to Nicaragua during The last
decade. This assistance has contributed to the reduction In poverly observed since
1993, I trust that this request for additonal asstance through the proposed PSAC will
receive your favorable consideration.
Yours sincerely.
Eduardo Montealegre R.
Mlnister of Finance and Public Credit
cc;    Mr. MaRo Aloro, Centra Bank of Nicaragua
Mr. Mado De Franco, Secretory of Coordination and Stratey of me Presidency, N ooroxu Ms
Ms. Jane Armitcge, Regional Director. Central Ame sl nca a he Caribbean. Wodd Bank
Ms. Amparo Balivfn, Resident Representalvoe. World Bank
Mr. Ulrich Lochier. Leader Economist, World Bank
EfO /Neao de Haceondo y C0dle PObloc
Manbogu Nkamgj
T61 (5! 222-7051 - FeaCn   222-33SS



Page 1 of 2
Nicaragua at a glance                                                            11/20/02
Latin
POVERTY and SOCLAL                                           America     Low-
Nicaragua   & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                        5.1       517     2,460                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)-                    420      3,560      430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        2.2     1,862    1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                         2.7        1.5      1.9
Labor force (%)                                         3.8       2.2      2.3     GNI                             Gross
per   *     \        AX       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              papita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   48
Urban population (% of total population)               .65        76   .    31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68        70        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                40        29 .      76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              11         9                   Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)    84        85 ,      76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     19        11        37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  102       130        96              -Nicaragua
Male                                                 100       131      103                  Low4ncome group
Female                                               103       128       88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981      1991      2000     2001
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                            2.5       1.5       2.4      2.6
Gross domestic lnvestmenUlGDP                23.6      20.8      34.9     30.4
Exports of goods and services/GOP            22.3      21.8      35.9     32.5                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    4.2   . -9.9      -11.1    -15.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   -3.1     -31.2      -644     -11.6                     I  \
Current account balance/GDP                 -26.7     -57.2     -38.0    -38.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         3.7      13.1       3.3      2.6                I   [   _   4    Investment
Total debt/GDP                               99.8     736.1     281.8    250.8     savings
Total debt service/exports                   37.9     141.2      22.1     34.6                      .I1
Present value of.debt/GDP                      ..       ..      228.2
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..      399.7
Indebtedness
198i191    1991401     2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -2.5       4.1   .    .5 -     3.0      3.9                  Nicaragua
GDP per capita                    -5.0        1.3       2.8       0.5      1.7            -L   ow-income group
Exportsof goods and.services       -3.3       8.9 .    13.9       6.8      7.0,
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981      1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                  20.2      29.1      32.7     32.3     60
Industry -                                   32.9      22.0      22.3     22.3     40
Manufacturing                              26.7      17.9      14.3      14.2    20
Services                                    46.9      48.9       44.9     45.4      001
Prvate consumption                           73.9     89.4       92.5     95.1    -20                98   99    oo   o
General govemment consumption                21.9      20.6      18.6     20.2
Imports of goods and services               41.8       52.5      81.9     78.1                    GDI       O  GOP
1981-91   1991-01      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  -2.9       6.5      11.4      3.1     40_
Industry                                     -2.9      4.7        3.1      3.2     30
Manufacturing                              -3.8       2.1       2.8      2.6     20
Services                                     -2.0       2.3       3.1      2.9     10
o-        I       I    I
Private consumption                          -1.1       5.1      -2.7      0.3    -10     98   97   as    99         01 o
General govemment consumption                -1.3       1.4       2.0      9.4    -20
Gross domestic Investment                    7.1       11.9      -9.7      -1.1                 E   s      O   Impos
Imports of goods and services                -2.0      11.0      -8.0      1.8
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the dlamond will
be incomplete.
Currently the official National Accounts are significantly underestimated.



Page 2 of 2
Nicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%/ change)
Consumerprices                               23.9  2,945.0      11.6      7       10
Implicit GDP deflator                        11.7  4,523.7      11.9      7.4     0
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                                 24.5     22.4            96    97    98    99    00    01
Current budget balance                                           2.3     -4 7                DP deflator
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -14.2    -19.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (tob)                          514      272       645       592     2,000
Coffee                                      137       36       171       105
Shrimp and Lobster                           20       13       112        76     1500
Manufactures                                79       61        232      252
Total imports (cif)                          828      751      1,800    1,789     1,000
Food                                       166      179        418      474            *"JJjj.j.
Fuel and energy                             176     115        291      269
Capital goods                               138     191        444      414 o      .     ,
os   9e   97   Oa   99   oo 6
Export price index (1995=100)                 78       86        84        76
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    61       91       117       115                0 Export      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    129       94        71        66
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                561      350       956       919      o        __
Imports of goods and services               1,044     843      1,991      1,983   - 0
Resource balance                             483     -492     -1,035    -1,064    -
Net income                                  -178     -375      -287      -311     J    i_             _i        _
Net current transfers                          0       15       400       402     -30
Current account balance                     -661     -852       -922     -972     -40
Financing items (net)                        714      868       893       801     -so
Changes in net reserves                       -53     -16         29      171     460
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       118      169       497       383
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                       4.9      12.7      13.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,471   10,959     6,851    6,385
IBRD                                       118      124         5         0
IDA                                         53      113       654       691                G. 831      B: 691
Total debt service                           223      530        300      457
IBRD                                        17      248         6         5         F: 344 {.
IDA                                          0        6         6         7
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               0D 1,490
Official grants                             25      795       255       241
Official creditors                         324       -7        147      147
Private creditors                          -17       -3       141       141
Foreign direct investment                    0        0       254       289
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0             E: 2,987
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0      114        53       182     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               43       54        87        63     B - IDA   D - Other mulUilateral  F - Priate
Principal repayments                         7      114         7         6     C - IMF                     G - Short-tem
Net flows                                   36      -60        81        56
Interest payments                           10      141         5         5
Net transfers                               26     -201        76        51
Development Economics                                                                                              10130/02



Page 1 of 2
Nicaragua - Key Economic Indicators
Actual         Esdimate  (Projected Base Case Scenario)
1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                           32.4    31.6    32.7    32.3   32.4    32.5    32.5    32.5
Industry                              22.1    22.9    22.3    22.3   22.5    22.7    22.7    22.7
Services                              45.5    45.5    44.9    45.4   45.1    44.8    44.8    44.8
Total Consumption                      106.1   110.9   106.9  109.1   113.5   112.7   111.1   106.7
Gross domestic investment               33.8    43.3   34.9    30.4    27.3    27.8    29.1    30.6
Government investment                  13.1   21.1    19.0    16.2    12.2   12.2    12.9    13.0
Private investment                    20.8    22.2    15.9    14.2   15.1    15.6    16.2    17.6
Exports (GNFS)b                         40.1    37.9   39.3    36.0    36.0    37.7    39.6    41.5
Imports (GNFS)                          80.1    92.1   81.2    75.5    76.8    78.1    79.8    78.8
Gross domestic savings                  -6.1   -10.9   -6.9    -9.1   -13.5   -12.7   -11.1    -6.7
Gross national savingsc                  2.3     1.4    2.5    -3.1    -1.2     3.0     9.0    11.6
Memorandum items:
Gross domestic product                2067.8  2212.5  2429.9  2537.0  2571.0  2661.0  2806.0  2989.0
(US$ million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)     370.0   390.0  410.0   420.0   450.0   460.0   480.0   500.0
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices'
Gross domestic product at market prices  4.1   7.4     5.5     3.1     1.0    3.0     4.5     5.0
Gross Domestic Income                  16.1    3.0     2.7    -0.5     3.1    2.4     4.0     4.5
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1998 prices'
Grossdomesticproductatmarketprices      1.3    4.5     2.8     0.5    -1.0     1.0    2.5     3.0
Total consumption                      18.4    1.8    -4.4    -0.6    -5.1   -3.0    -1.1    -0.4
Private consumption                   23.5     0.6    -5.2    -2.2   -5.5    -3.5    -2.0    -1.3
Balance of Payments (US$)
Exports (GNFS)b                       830.0   838.2  956.1   913.0   926.0  1002.0  1110.0  1240.0
Merchandise FOB                     573.2   545.2  645.1   592.0   598.0   663.0   739.0   833.0
Imports (GNFS)b                     1656.0  2037.8  1972.0  1915.0  1974.0  2079.0  2238.0  2354.0
Merchandise FOB                    1384.0  1702.8  1629.0  1561.0  1598.0  1659.0  1758.0  1878.0
Resource balance                     -826.0 -1199.6 -1015.9 -1002.0 -1048.0 -1077.0 -1128.0 -1114.0
Net current transfers                 311.0   396.0   400.0  402.0   453.0   496.0   541.0   543.0
Current account balance (before oficial gran  -768.6 -1058.6  -931.0  -956.4  -726.0  -638.0  -541.0  -548.0
Net private foreign direct investment  125.2  300.0   265.0   132.0  201.0   256.0   250.0   239.0
Long-term loans (net)                 237.3   106.0    49.0   40.0    75.0    33.0    34.0    10.0
Other capital(net, incl. errors&ommissions)  236.8  422.8  242.0  284.4  171.0  205.0  71.0  169.0
Change in reservesd                     6.0   -77.2    29.0   171.0   13.0   -30.0     0.0   -50.0
Memorandum items:
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -39.9   -54.2   -41.8  -39.5   -40.8   -40.5   -40.2   -37.3
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)     -37.2   -47.8   -38.3  -37.7   -28.2   -24.0   -19.3   -18.3
Netcurrenttransfers(%ofGDP)            15.0    17.9    16.5    13.0   17.6    18.6    19.3    18.2
Exports volumes                         -2.3    9.3    15.1     7.3     1.1     5.5     6.1    6.2
Imports volumes                         8.6    15.9    -9.7     3.1    -4.7     1.0     3.4     6.1



Page 2 of 2
Nicaragua - Key Economic Indicators (continued)
Actual         Estmate   (Projected Base Case Scenario)
1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                       26.9    25.8   24.5    22.3    23.4    25.1    25.8   25.7
Current expenditures                   21.6    21.8   22.2    27.0    26.2    23.7    18.1   16.1
Capital expenditure                    10.5    17.9   16.6    14.7    10.2    10.3    11.3    11.6
Overall Balance surplus (+) or deficit(-)  -5.1  -13.9  -14.3  -19.4  -13.0   -8.9    -3.6    -2.0
Foreign financing (includinggrants)    10.8    18.2    12.4   11.0    12.4    13.1     9.8     9.6
Grants                                3.1     7.4    6.1     5.7     6.7     6.3     3.6     3.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                 68.6    68.3   63.3    63.5    63.5    63.5    63.5    63.8
Growth ofM2 (%)                        30.5    18.8    9.4    11.1     7.4     9.2    10.3    11.0
Price indices( 1990 =100)
Merchandise export price index         71.7    62.4   64.1    54.9    56.3    59.4    61.8    65.4
Merchandise import price index        131.4   140.6   164.4  157.7   142.6   142.6   141.8   141.8
Merchandise terns of trade index       54.5    44.4    39.0   34.8    39.5    41.7    43.6    46.2
Real exchange rate (US$ALCUI            2.0     1.6     6.0   -0.6      ..
Consumer price index (average, % change)  13.0  11.2   11.9    7.4     4.4     6.0     4.8     4.0
Consumerpriceindex(endofyear,%chanl    18.5     7.2     6.6    4.7     6.0     6.0     4.0     4.0
GDP deflator (% change)                13.0    11.2    11.9    7.4     4.4     6.0     4.8     4.0
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. IMF definition.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central govemnment
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation



Page lof 2
Nicaragua - Status of Bank Group Operations
As of September 30, 2002
Operations Portfolio
Closed projects: 43                                                                            Difference Between
Board                                              Last PSR                                    Expected and Actual
Date                                           Supervision Rating    Orlainal Amount in US$ Millions  Disbursements_a
Fiscal                                     Development Imnolementatlo                                       FRFn'
Year              Active Projects           Objectives  n Prooress       IDA   GRANT     Undisb.   Orig.    Revd
1997  P041790 Atlantic Biological Corridor     S           S                      7.1       3.8      3.7     1.8
1998  P035753 Health Sector II                  S           S           24.0                7.5      4.2      0.0
1998  P053705 Transport II                      S          S            47.4                5.4      2.4     0.0
1999  P040197 FISE IlIl                        S           S            45.0                3.5      5.0     0.0
1999  P052080 Forestry                         HS          HS            9.0                2.9      2.7      0.0
2000  P050613 Basic Education II                S           S           52.5               19.8    -31.4      0.0
2000  P055853 Telecom. Reform                   S           S           15.9                1.9      1.3      0.0
2000  P049296 Economic Management TAC           S           S           20.9                7.2    -12.6      0.0
2000  P056087 Pension and Flnancial Market TA   S           S            8.0                3.4     -3.3      0.2
2000  P064915 Agr Tech & Rural Edu              S           S           23.6               12.2      3.9      0.0
2001  P070016 Competitiveness LIL               S           S            5.0                4.6      1.8      0.0
2001  P068673 Road Rehab & Maint                S           S           75.0               66.3    -11.1      0.0
2001  P055823 Rural Municipalities II           S           S           28.7               20.7      2.1      0.0
2001  P064916 Natural Disaster Vulnerability    S           U           13.5               12.7     -1.1      0.0
2001  P064906 Poverty Red & Local Dev           S           S           60.0               55.4     31.3      0.0
2002  P056018 Land Administration               S           S           32.6               34.6      0.0      0.0
461.1       7.1    261.8     -1.1      2.0
All Proiects
IBRD         IDA          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):  229.6    825.8        1055.4
of which has been repaid:  224.1     19.3         243.3
Total now held by IBRD and IDA b:  0.0      779.9        779.9
a. I ntended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 2 of 2
Nicaragua     Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of November 30, 2002
(US$ millions)
FY                                        Committed                                 Disbursed
Approval  Company               Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic.       Loan    Equity     Quasi   Partic.
2001      BANEXPO                 5.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
2000      Finarca                 1.4       0.6      0.0       0.0          1.4      0.0       0.0      0.0
1998      Fnrtan                  0.4       0.4      0.0       0.0         0.4       0.0       0.0     0.0
1998      La Colonia              3.5       0.0      0.5       0.0         1.5       0.0       0.5     0.0
1999      SEF Dicegsa             0.8       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.8       0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Portfolio:       11.1      1.0       0.5       0.0         4.1       0.0       0.5     0.0



MAP SECTION






I,                          tJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-                        84.
N I C A R A G U A                                   H O N D U R A S      0( 'tf tdh,=                                  -do h r, ho h  rd
oc                              w-f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro -o of The World Bonk
DEPARTMENTS                                                                                   L WANif"AGOON           Group Th. d.-ommctW Oh
> \ _ Bilwo~~~~~sknrma ;s:r 5"> ;
Department boundaries                                                                      UOS                 e
r iti                                     ISQLAN S               of sorhhonooneo
National capital                                                                        ISLANDS
o   Cities and towns
International Boundaries                         BoPAnazARA LAGOON
14t                                                                         La Rasit             0 Puerto Cabezas
J   M  J I N O T E G A                              L4n  a   tf(ARAA LAGOON
rMP        N_ EVA                  s       A TLA N TIC    
0Sao           LaVa                      ~NORTE (WOL,NTA LAGOCN
CtX   _    Ln             Vigin /t              ~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~    ~~~~~~~Kuikuinn  J ~~'  Puerio Isobel
EsteLFi  t ESTELI CAZ3iSE:AN SEA
0                flo         \            MATAGAtPA nil                                             0  20  40  60  80 100 120 140 160
\ rl Puert$n                                                                        ~     >l                                 I   I Motogolpo ,/ <~ , 2 , A X ftg2  KILOMETERS
XCHINANDEGA  <  ~~L E ON           z   uyM>       _                               '{m'    oI                  0     X        IE
CHNANDEGA      0Mlpaisill                                        ATLANTICO             '           20    40    60    80     100
Chinnndego       o
Corin\w |,0~                                                         S U R t
,arintnr  -Lan<                Boaco BOACO                                                                         87
Puerto So-,      AN                                                                               16n
Puertn Sondinn -2  t CHO N                                    El Bluff                     HONDURAS
Juigalpa                         Bluefield,W' EIItf7
rO  0 409/tGranada  \N  San Uboldo                    / L'                  EL
N..  Jinatepe  a;Ondoime                            \_ _ S ALVADORi 
jCARAZO GRANA/3A               <nrd                                                              CARAGUA
< f (lhrcn '\pe
La Boquita                             rritICRAUA
Rivas 0                                                                           Mnnng         2 '
I VA         NICARAGUA
\   Penas Bloncas  \Sn Cno7               FUNTA GORCA BAY             Area of Map
PACIFIC OCEAN        San Juan del SurO  C'                                                                               COSTA
0                         ~~~~~~~~~~~0 80 160MOEE  RCOSA
c  _ X >  C  O  T        i      \'iSAnN JUnAriNde00- NSReTh EIAY     E0ERS  RICA
COSTA                         San Juan d~~~~~~~  ~       ~~~~~el'Narte  MILES
R I C A                     s            J                           PACFIC OCEAN,    mANAMAr
*0                                       e49     ,                                iz,84*  --    \or.                                  ,,4,  \ A









R.POUi No.: P       753    NI
Type: 



