Report No. PID11505
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Programmatic
Structural Adjustment Credit
(PSAC)
Project ID:                      P074760
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Lic. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas
Minister of Finance
Edificio del Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Frente a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Tel.: 505-228-5043
Fax: 505-228-
Date of PID:                     November 5, 2002
Project Appraisal:               November 2002
Board Date                       December 2002
Country Background:              Nicaragua has made significant progress over
the last decade in reducing poverty, with the share of the population living
in extreme poverty falling from 19.4 percent in 1993 to 15.1 percent in 2001.
The country's social indicators also improved significantly in the second
half of the 1990s, except in some areas such as child malnutrition, access to
water and sanitation and literacy rates, which have exhibited mixed
performances or slow rates of advance.    Nevertheless, Nicaragua remains one
of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin America, and there are
concerns about its ability to sustain a positive pace of improvement in the
face of an ongoing economic recession, pessimistic prospects for the
country's main agricultural export prices and a lack of technological
dynamism in the rural sector.
As one of the most highly indebted countries in the world, Nicaragua was
declared eligible for the HIPC debt relief initiative in 1999. Its
successful compliance with a PRGF program negotiated with the IMF and the
progress made in preparing a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) allowed
Nicaragua to reach the HIPC decision point in December 2000.     Unfortunately,
the PRGF program went off track and had to be abandoned in 2001, when a
series of internal and external shocks, coupled with the ending of the post-
hurricane Mitch reconstruction boom and increased political uncertainty,
caused economic performance to deteriorate. Nicaragua's newly elected
authorities took corrective actions in 2002, and have initiated discussions
with the IMF on a new three-year PRGF arrangement, which is scheduled for
approval by the end of 2002.
Project Objectives and Description:      This credit is proposed as the first of a
series of PSACs., whose overall objective will be to support the
implementation of Nicaragua's poverty reduction strategy as laid out in its
PRSP and PRSP Progress Report. The credit will not provide support to all
the policy measures mentioned in the PRSP, but will selectively focus on
policy and institutional reforms in areas with high poverty impact and where
IDA has a comparative advantage. Analytical underpinnings for this program
were provided by a Poverty Assessment and a Public Expenditure Review,
prepared by IDA in 2001. Working closely with the Nicaraguan authorities,
IDA and IDB have also initiated joint work on a Country Financial



Accountability Assessment and a Country Procurement Assessment, which will
provide a roadmap for strengthening the public sector's fiduciary and
expenditure management. As the implementation of recommendations from these
analyses advances, consideration will be given to replacing the subsequent
PSACs by a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).
The PRSP consists of four strategic pillars, which are faster broad-based
economic growth, greater investment in human capital, better protection for
vulnerable groups, and improved governance and institutional strengthening.
The PSAC will support the first pillar of the PRSPs through measures to
improve the private investment climate and, especially, to attract foreign
direct investment, and strengthen the financial system, including the
regulatory environment for micro-finance institutions. The area of
macroeconomic stability, which is also critical for an enabling environment,
will be covered under the arrangement with the IMF's Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility, with the PSAC focusing mainly on the composition of public
expenditures.
The PSAC will support the second pillar of the PRSP by focusing on measures
to increase the coverage and quality of primary education, increase the
coverage and quality of basic health services, especially in rural areas,
improve child nutrition indicators and strengthen reproductive health
programs.
The PSAC will support the fourth pillar of the PRSP by focusing attention on
measures to improve public sector expenditure and financial management as a
key vehicle for raising the impact of public expenditures and strengthening
donor coordination, and on civil service reform. These measures include the
establishment of a transparent tracking mechanism for HIPC debt relief.
Nicaragua hopes to reach the Completion point under the HIPC initiative soon.
Project Financing:               Expected IDA funding is US$15 million
Poverty Category:                Poverty-focused operation
Environmental Aspects: The proposed PSAC is a structural adjustment credit.
An environmental assessment, Indigenous people's development plan, and
resettlement action plan are not applicable.
Contact Points:
Task Manager:
Ulrich Lachler
5398+202
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
-2-



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 15, 2002.
-3 -



