Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3736-NI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 19, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3736-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
December 12, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
support the Borrower’s poverty reduction strategy (the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided to 
provide such assistance to the Borrower in support of the Program by making the Credit 
in one tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
 (a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“ ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 
9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b) “ENEL” 
means 
Empresa Nicaragüense de Electricidad
,
the Borrower’s 
power company, established pursuant to Law 46-94 of  January 1, 1995 published in 
La 
Gaceta
 No. 204 on November 1, 1994; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“ENITEL” means 
Empresa Nicaragüense de Telecomunicaciones
,
the 
Borrower’s telecommunications company established pursuant to Law No. 210 of 
November 30, 1995, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 231, on December 7, 1995; 
(d) “FAITAN” 
means 
Fondo de Apoyo a la Investigación Tecnológica 
Agropecuaria y Forestal de Nicaragua, the
 Borrower’s competitive fund for agricultural 
and forestry research services, implemented in accordance with the Subsidiary 
Agreement of May 4, 2001 entered into by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
Public Credit, the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry and FUNICA, as 
defined below, for the implementation of the Agricultural Technology Project partially 
financed by the Association Credit No.3371-NI; 
(e) “FSS” 
means 
Fondo Social Suplementario,
,
the Borrower’s 
supplementary social fund established pursuant to Decree No. 46-98 , published in 
La
 
Gaceta 
No. 117 on June 24, 1998 as amended by Decree 54-98, published in 
La Gaceta
 
No. 167 on September 4, 1998, Decree 122-00, published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 232 of 
December 6, 2000 and Decree 57-2002 published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 114 on June 19, 
2002, as the agency responsible for the financing of projects and programs in the area of 
health, education and social protection and for channeling funds made available as a 
result of HIPC debt relief received by the Borrower;
 
(f) “FUNICA” 
means 
Fundación para el Desarrollo Tecnológico y Forestal 
de Nicaragua
,
the Borrower’s foundation for agricultural and forestry development 
technology established pursuant to Decree A.N. No. 2867 published in 
La Gaceta No. 71 
on April 17, 2001 as the agency responsible for administering the funds of 
inter alia
 
FAITAN, as defined above; 
(g) 
 “General Health Law” means 
Ley General de Salud
,
the Borrower’s 
Law No. 423 of November 17, 2002 published in 
La Gaceta
 No. 91 on May 17, 2002, 
that provides the legal framework for strengthening the normative and regulatory role of 
the Ministry of Health of the Borrower; 
(h) 
“HIPC Initiative ” means Highly Indebted Poor Countries debt relief 
initiative administered by the Association; 
(i) “INTA” 
means 
Instituto Nicaragüense de Tecnología Agropecuaria
,
the 
Borrower’s institute for agricultural technology established pursuant to Decree 22-93, 
published in 
La Gaceta 
No. 61 on March 26, 1993, as amended by Decree No. 111/2000, 
published in 
La Gaceta No. 207 
on
November 1, 2000,  Decree No. 40-2001, published 
in 
La Gaceta 
No. 75 on April 23, 2001 and Decree No. 19/2002, published in 
La Gaceta 
No. 42 
on March 1, 2002; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(j) 
“Regulation” means 
Reglamento de la Ley de Participación Educativa, 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 46-2002 published in 
La Gaceta No. 95 
on
May 23, 2002, 
which regulates the Borrower’s School Autonomy Law as defined here below; 
(k) “School 
Autonomy 
Law” 
means 
Ley de Participación Educativa
,
the 
Borrower’s Law No. 413 published in 
La Gaceta 
No. 56
 
on
March 21, 2002 that provides 
the legal framework for the participation of parents, students and teachers in the 
administration of public schools in the Borrower’s territory; 
(l) “School 
Councils” 
means 
Consejos Directivos Escolares
,
councils 
established pursuant to the School Autonomy Law with the objective of organizing and 
facilitating community participation in the administration of public schools; and   
 (m) 
“SIGFA” 
means 
Sistema Integrado de Gestión Financiera, 
Administrativa y Auditoría,
 the Borrower’s integrated system for the financial 
management of its administration, established pursuant  to Law 290 of June 3, 1998, 
published in 
La Gaceta No. 102 
on June 3, 1998 and  implemented pursuant to Decree 
No. 44-98, published in 
La Gaceta No. 117 on June 24, 1998.
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR11,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central 
Bank of Nicaragua, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15  in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 
2013 and ending December 15, 2042. Each installment to, and including the 
installment payable on, December 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
Page  7
-
6
-
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
(6) months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on 
such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or reversing any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program.  
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievements of the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date June 17, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Costado Norte de la Asamblea Nacional 
 Managua, 
Nicaragua 
 
Facsimile:  
505-2223033  
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC  OF  NICARAGUA 
 
By  /s/ Eduardo Montealegre 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Amparo Ballivian 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112   
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121   
- 
  Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122   
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not containing  
 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525   
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667   
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious stones,  
 
un-worked or worked 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
718  
 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
 
  728.43  
 Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897  
 
 
897.3 
  
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ wares  
 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
   
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a Participating 
Country for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Page  14
-
13
-
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has provided to the Association a
 report on the Borrower’s 
poverty-focused and overall public spending executed in 2001, to be used as 
baseline for future expenditure monitoring purposes. 
 
2. 
INTA has adopted operational regulations and by-laws designed to encourage the 
creation of a market for providers of agricultural technology services.  
 
3.  
The Borrower has created, and is operating, FUNICA  to, 
inter alia
,
administer a competitive fund to finance agricultural services (FAITAN). 
 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower has divested 51 percent of its ENITEL shares. 
 
(b) 
ENEL' s power generating operations have been assigned to four 
successor companies of ENEL, two of which have been either sold to, or are being 
operated by, the private sector. 
 
5. 
The Borrower’s School Autonomy Law and its Regulation have both been 
approved by the Borrower’s National Assembly and executive branch, 
respectively, and are in effect. 
 
6. 
(a) 
 2800 members of School Councils have been trained on their 
responsibilities under the School Autonomy Law and its Regulation;  
 
(b) 
20,000 copies of the School Autonomy Law and  its Regulation 
have been published and distributed to School Councils, parents, and education 
sector staff; 
 
(c) 
50% of public schools in the territory of the Borrower are receiving direct 
financial transfers from the Borrower as provided under the School Autonomy Law and its 
Regulation for managing schools, and said schools have been given and are exercising the 
power to hire and fire their teachers; and 
 
(d)  
a pilot program designed to analyze the effects of implementing 
the School Autonomy Law and its Regulation is being implemented. 
 
7. 
The Borrower’s General Health Law has been approved by the Borrower’s 
National Assembly and is in effect.  
 
Page  16
-
15
-
8. 
The Borrower has established, and is operating, a results-based 
management system for basic health care delivery in 13 municipalities. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence that the estimated 
percentage of the total national population served by potable water connections 
has increased by at least 1.4 percentage points per year in each of 2000 and 2001. 
The Borrower has also furnished to the Association evidence that the percentage 
of the total national population with access to sanitation services has increased by 
0.7 percentage points per year over the period 1998 -  2001. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has implemented the SIGFA budget formulation and 
execution modules and SIGFA accounting module in 31 central government 
agencies and institutions and  has made budget execution figures publicly 
available through the internet. 
 
11. 
The FSS Coordinating Committee has approved the regulations for 
tracking and accounting all funds made available to the Supplementary Social 
Fund (FSS), including HIPC debt relief funds received by the Borrower. 
 
