Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6543-GGH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
APRIL 17,1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =           Cedi (C)
US$1               =            1060
el                             US$0.0094
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGC         -     Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
AGSAC       -     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
APDF        -     Africa Project Development Facility
BOG         -     Bank of Ghana
DIC         -     Divestiture Implementation Committee
ESAF        -     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ERP         -     Economic Recovery Program
ESW         -     Economic and sector work
FINSAC      -     Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GCB         -     Ghana Commercial Bank
GOG         -     Government of Ghana
GNPC        -     Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
GSC         -     Ghana Supply Commission
ICB         -     International competitive bidding
MORH        -     Ministry of Roads and Highways
MOWH        -     Ministry of Works and Housing
NIB         -     National Investment Bank
NIRP        -     National Institutional Renewal Program
ODA         -     Overseas Development Administration
OED         -     Operations Evaluation Department
PFP         -     Policy Framework Paper
PSAC        -     Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSAG        -     Private Sector Advisory Group
RLC         -      Regional Loan Committee
SAC         -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SITC        -      Standard International Trade Classification
SOE         -      State-owned enterprises
SSCB        -      Social Security Bank
SAC         -     Structural Adjustment Credit
VAT         -      Value added tax
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  .........................  i
I. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS  ..............   1
U. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THIE PRIVATE SECTOR ...                       ......   3
m. BANK GROUP'S PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ... 4
IV. THE PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  .......... .                          7
A. Privatization            ......................                         8
1. Past Divestiture Efforts ............................   8
2. The Proposed Program  ............................   9
B. Macroeconomic Policy Framework ........ ..            .............  12
1. Short-Term Macroeconomic Policies ....................  13
2. Public Expenditure Management ......................  15
3. Medium-Term Sustainability and Public Service ....       .........  18
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                    .............................  19
A. Credit History ................. ...................  19
B. Tranching and Conditions      .............        ...............  19
C. Procurement and Disbursement ......... ..            .............. 22
D. Benefits and Risks     ............... .................. 23
1. Benefits ...........                                                23
2. Risks Facing Macroeconomic Performance ................ 24
3. Risks Facing Implementation of Privatization  .............. 24
E. Monitoring and Reporting      .............        ...............  25
ANNEXES
1. Policy Matrix
2. Approved Procedures for Divestiture of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs)
3. Preliminary Schedules for Divestiture of Four Strategic SOEs
4. Implementation of Divestiture of Small and Medium SOEs
5. Letter of Development Policy of March 24, 1995
6. Terms of Reference for the Study on the External Marketing of Cocoa
7. Key Economic Indicators
8. The Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
9. Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
MAP: IBRD 23606
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  i






GHANA: PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CRED1T AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:     Republic of Ghana
Amount:       SDR 46.9 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Credit
Description:   The proposed Credit would provide balance of payments financing in
support of the Government's program to promote private sector
growth by accelerating the pace of privatization and by maintaining
an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework, including
improved management and poverty-orientation of public
expenditures. The privatization component, which cuts across
several sectors and uses private firms to implement privatization, has
three parts: the first, covers 46 medium sized state-owned
enterprises (SOEs); the second, covers 64 small SOEs; and the third,
covers 4 large and strategic SOEs, including Ghana Telecom and
State Insurance Corporation. Of these, the Government is expected
to sell or liquidate 48 small and medium-sized SOEs and to offer for
sale 3 large and strategic SOEs including Ghana Telecom, within the
program period. The macroeconomic framework component, in
addition to ensuring fiscal and monetary discipline, seeks to
implement better expenditure monitoring systems in 16 ministries
covering at least 70 percent of total expenditures, a more efficient
multi-year contracting system in 2 ministries, and a comprehensive
accounting system in 6 ministries. Also, expenditures on basic
education, primary health, and rural infrastructure would be
increased in real terms to improve the poor's human resources and
income-augmenting opportunities.
Benefits:     The proposed operation will increase the efficiency and the level of
investment and thus permit an acceleration of growth. The
Government, through its actions under the Program, will have
signaled strong support for an increased role of the private sector in
Ghana's future investment and growth. Opening up the
telecommunications sector to private participation and offering
Ghana Telecom for sale within the program period will mark a
second important threshold in privatization, the first being the sale of
Ashanti Goldfields in 1994. Privatizing the privatization process
also augurs well for the private sector; it will harness the drive and
energy of private firms in the implementation of divestiture, and it
will make the sales more transparent and more sustained. Improved



ii
expenditure management and a stable macroeconomic framework
will give confidence to the private sector. A well-run public
financial management system will ensure that aggregate expenditure
is controlled, private providers of public services get paid on time,
and complementary public investment in infrastructure and human
resources gets implemented expeditiously.
Risks:         The proposed operation faces several risks, but they are manageable.
Potential problems facing the maintenance of macroeconomic
stability stem from risks to the fiscal and external accounts. On the
fiscal side, a real increase in public service wage and wage-related
expenditures can convert the projected fiscal surplus to a significant
fiscal deficit. There is, however, reason to believe that the
Government is acutely aware of this risk and may adopt measures to
contain the pressures better than it did in 1992. The establishment
of the National Oversight Committee by the President two years
before the election to oversee the National Institutional Renewal
Program aimed at ensuring a leaner and more effective public
service augurs well for such containment. On the external side, a
large terms-of-trade shock or a significant shortfall in concessional
financing could undermine macroeconomic stability. However,
Ghana's terms of trade are projected to improve in the next two
years and remain at the new level after that. While the Government
is firmly committed to the Program, the expeditious implementation
of the privatization program faces the risk that privatization will be
slower because the buying capacity of the private sector is lower
than estimated. There is also the risk of political resistance to
privatization, even after initial successes, either because retrenched
workers do not find employment, or because foreign investors are
not liked. These risks are manageable as the likely retrenchments
are low and the response to foreign investment has so far been
favorable.
Disbursement: The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche of
US$30 million equivalent will be disbursed upon credit
effectiveness. The second and third tranches of US$15 and US$25
million equivalent will be released upon compliance with tranche
release conditions, expected to occur in 10 and 20 months after
release of the first tranche, respectively.
Retroactive
Flnancing:   Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$14 million
equivalent will be allowed on the basis of eligible expenditures
incurred after February 1, 1995.
Map:           Ghana (IBRD 23606)



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the
proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) to the Republic of Ghana for
SDR 46.9 million, an amount equivalent to US$70 million, on standard IDA terms.
The proposed Credit is intended to provide balance of payments financing in support
of the Government's program to promote private sector growth by accelerating the
pace of privatization and by maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework, including improved management and poverty orientation of public
expenditures. This Credit, one of three adjustment credits envisaged in the country
assistance strategy, would deepen and strengthen the policy reforms implemented
under previous adjustment and investment operations.
I. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
2.    Ghana's gradualist and sustained adjustment strategy, adopted in 1983 under
the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), turned the economy around. In the 10 years
before the introduction of the ERP, real GDP fell by 1 percent a year; since its
introduction, real GDP has risen by 5 percent a year. The ERP moved Ghana from a
grossly overvalued multiple exchange rate system to a market-determined one, from a
quantitatively controlled trade regime to one with relatively low tariffs on imports,
and from an economy with price controls to one without. For exporters and indirect
exporters of nontraditional products, various schemes for duty and tax relief on
imported inputs are now available. The tax regime has been rationalized and the
corporate tax rate is low. The investment regulations have been liberalized. Controls
on the marketing of agricultural outputs and inputs have been removed-with the
important exception of cocoa export marketing.
3.    Unfinished Reform Agenda. Nevertheless, a substantial reform agenda-
especially for private sector development-remains to be implemented. Liberalization
of cocoa exports and petroleum imports are yet to take place. The financial sector
has been partly reformed; much more remains to be done to enhance financial
intermediation, in particular to increase competition among financial institutions by
divesting banks and insurance companies, and to improve the legal and financial
infrastructure. Reforms in public expenditure management and the public service as
well as progress in the divestiture of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) have been slow.
4.    Private Investment. Reflecting the unfinished reform agenda and probably
the gradualist adjustment strategy, the rate of private investment and savings remains
low. Not only is the rate of private investment low in relation to the average for low-
income countries, its trend up to 1991 was not maintained from 1992 onwards. Both
public and private investment more than doubled between 1985 and 1991, but private



2
investment fell precipitously in 1992 due to political uncertainty. It is yet to achieve
the levels reached earlier because of macroeconomic instability since then.
5.    Election-Related Fiscal Shock. In 1992, shortly before the elections, civil
servants demanded and received a large increase in wages. This was followed by
increases in payments on employment-related benefits for non-civil service workers in
agencies funded by the budget. There were slippages in revenue too. As a result, the
narrow fiscal balance moved from a surplus to a deficit of about 5 percent of GDP in
that year, the money supply rose by more than 50 percent, and the current account
deficit widened to 9 percent of GDP. The cedi depreciated sharply and inflationary
pressures increased. Private investment fell precipitously.
6.    Improvements in FLscal Situation. In 1993, the fiscal situation improved-
but not as much as planned. Real GDP growth for 1993 was 5 percent-somewhat
more than programmed-but Ghana's financial performance fell short of expectations.
Most of the program's benchmarks were missed. The Government's budget recorded
a deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP in 1993 against the targeted surplus of 0.3 percent.
The slippage resulted mainly from higher current expenditures and a shortfall in tax
revenue from petroleum excise duties; the latter reflected action by Parliament to bar
a second-round increase in excise duties. As a consequence, money supply grew by
30 percent and inflation reached 27 percent in December 1993, on an annual basis.
7.    Fiscal Outturn in 1994. The budget moved from a deficit of 2.5 percent in
1993 to a deficit of 0.8 percent in 1994. This fiscal performance reflected the failure
to impose an import duty of 10 percent on a range of zero-rated and exempted goods.
In addition, the volume of dutiable imports was lower than previously envisaged. On
the expenditure side, personal emoluments and domestic interest payments were above
target. These revenue shortfalls and expenditure overruns were financed by
divestiture receipts which exceeded original projections by around 3 percent of
GDP.'
8.    Macroeconomic Performance. In 1994, inflationary pressures have
intensified in the wake of significant monetary expansion and low GDP growth.
Implementation of monetary policy was undermined by arrears on oil-related credits
incurred by the Ghana National Petroleum Company (GNPC) to the Bank of Ghana.
As a result, money supply grew by around 46 percent. Also, real GDP growth was
3.8 percent, somewhat less than the projected 5 percent, despite strong gains in
mining and service sectors. Untimely rains and ethnic conflict in the north
undermined growth in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors. Inflation rose to 34
percent on an end-of-period basis. However, the external current account adjustment
in 1994 was as envisaged. The exchange rate depreciated in line with inflation and
helped to keep import demand in check. Exports rose by more than 15 percent which
was higher than the annual average of 7 percent, largely because of higher world
pnces.
1 Inclusive of the excess divestiture receipts, the narrow fiscal balance had a surplus of around 2 percent of
GDP.



3
9.    Macroeconomic Program for 1995. As announced in the budget,
macroeconomic stability is programmed to be restored over the course of 1995 (see
paras. 40-42). Macroeconomic performance and policy are expected to be monitored
more frequently by the IMF under the proposed ESAF program for the 1995-97
period (see para. 43).
H. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
10.   There is growing evidence of a sea change in government attitudes towards the
private sector. The private sector, long the object of suspicion and arbitrarily
enforced regulations, is now being sought by the Government as a partner in growth.
This is reflected in the supportive nature of the dialogue with the private sector, in the
recent policy actions, and in the intensification of the privatization program. In turn,
these have improved private sector perceptions about Ghana as a place in which to
invest.
11.   Dialogue with the Private Sector. The public-private sector dialogue-
initiated under the Private Sector Advisory Group (PSAG) in 1991 with a handful of
private sector leaders-has since been broadened and strengthened through the Private
Sector Roundtable. The latter, composed of a representative spectrum of Ghanaian
entrepreneurs and senior government officials, meets regularly to discuss relevant
policy issues, including accelerated privatization, technology development, financial
sector liberalization, and legal and financial infrastructure development.
12.   Recent Policy Actions. The improved dialogue has led to changes in policies.
The Statutory Corporations Act, approved in December 1993, permits conversion of
statutory public corporations into companies with saleable shares; this will facilitate
privatization. The new and more liberal Investment Act, approved in 1994,
liberalizes the overall private investment climate further. Ghana's acceptance of its
obligations under Article VIII of the IMF Articles of Agreement in March 1994-to
achieve its balance of payments objective through appropriate financial and exchange
rate policies rather than current account controls-will also boost its image with
international investors. The Government has developed a regulatory framework for
private participation in the telecommunications sector which is being presented to
Parliament.
13.   Privatization. Ghana's privatization program has gathered a new momentum.
Notwithstanding initial controversy and its original revenue-related motivation, the
sale of government shares in Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC) has generated
broad-based support for privatization. Also, the sale of the Government's minority
holdings-to international fund managers-in seven companies listed on the Ghana
Stock Exchange has reinforced that support. The Divestiture Implementation
Committee (DIC) has recently sold 10 more medium and small majority-owned SOEs
to the private sector. New and more transparent procedures for divestiture, including
the subcontracting of the implementation of divestiture to private firms, have been
approved by the Cabinet and disseminated to the public (see Annex 2). There is also
evidence of renewed commitment to the divestiture of commercial banks.



4
Internationally reputed private financial advisors have been contracted to implement
divestiture of 60 percent of the shares of the Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the
Social Security Bank (SSB) and the National Investment Bank (NIB). Their
divestment will reduce the dominance of government in the banking sector and
increase competition.
14.  Perceptions of Foreign Investors. The relatively easy placing of the shares
of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC) and the seven companies listed on the
Ghana stock exchange with international fund managers abroad suggests that a
reversal of Ghana's earlier image as anti-foreign investment is under way. Indeed,
Ghana is now starting to be viewed as having good investment potential. Fund
managers from respectable international investment firms have bought shares in
Ghanaian companies. The new perception about government support for the private
sector is also evident in inflows of private foreign investment in mining and more
recently in the agro-processing sector.
15. Domestic Constituency for Privatization. Broad-based Ghanaian
participation in the AGC share offering has created a large domestic constituency for
privatization. AGC workers, farmers, civil servants, and local companies bought
shares in AGC and are interested in its growth. Meanwhile, the jump in total
pitalization of the Ghana Stock Exchange from ¢43 billion in 1992 to ¢226 billion
(about US$240 million) in 1994 (equivalent to 5.7 percent of GDP) has shown that
the market's capacity to buy shares in good Ghanaian companies is much larger than
previously thought. Ghanaian entrepreneurs and the Government are beginning to see
the Ghana Stock Exchange as a vehicle for raising capital and for privatizing SOEs.
16. The Challenge. The critical challenge now facing the Government is to
nurture Ghana's increasingly positive image in the business community and to draw
wider investment-beyond the mining sector and the Ghana Stock Exchange
companies-from both foreign and domestic sources. The Government's recent
adoption of the accelerated divestiture program and the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability will make a significant contribution towards that end.
m. BANK GROUP'S PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
17.   This Credit is in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy (submitted
with this project) which aims at helping the Government achieve its objective of faster
growth and poverty reduction by restoring and maintaining macroeconomic stability
including improved public expenditure management, implementing the unfinished
policy agenda for private sector development, exchanging capacity in public and
private sectors, and investing heavily in human resources development and in
infrastructure. It is the first of three adjustment operations planned to support the
policy reform agenda for prvate sector development. The subsequent two operations
would support further privatization, the liberalization of cocoa export marketing and
the petroleum sector, public service restructuring and the remaining financial sector
reforms. During the FY96-98 period, the Bank Group anticipates adjustment lending
of around US$110 million which is less than 15 percent of total IDA commitments
over that period (down from 33 percent during FY90-93).



5
18.   Support for Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. The Bank-together
with the IMF-will support the Government in sustaining medium term
macroeconomic stability in three ways. First, there will be frequent Bank and Fund
staff consultations with the Government on the macroeconomic framework through the
tripartite (the Government, Bank, and Fund) Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
discussions and the Fund's biannual missions under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF). This will keep macroeconomic management and
performance at the center of the Bank's dialogue with the Government. Second, the
Bank will assist in improving public expenditure management and control through
measures supported by both this Credit and the subsequent adjustment and technical
assistance operations as well as through annual consultations on the public expenditure
reviews being carried out by the Government since 1993. The resulting
improvements in the efficiency of expenditures would help in restraining growth in
aggregate expenditure in the context of rising demands. Third, there will be
support-through adjustment and technical assistance operations-to the Govemment's
own program of measures for a leaner and more effective public service. This is
currently being developed by the Govemment under its National Institutional Renewal
Program (NIRP) (see para. 57 for details).
19.   Private Sector Strategy. The Bank's strategy to support private sector
development ranges from the macroeconomic level-given the importance of
macroeconomic stability for private savings and investment-to more specific sectoral
assistance in the form of tax, financial sector, and regulatory reform as well as
support to crowd-in private investment in various sectors. Past Bank involvement was
instrumental in getting the Private Sector Roundtable process started; as noted above,
this has been very successful in broadening the dialogue between the Govemment and
the private sector started earlier by the Private Sector Advisory Group. Economic
and sector work (ESW) starting in FY902 identified impediments to private
investment and savings, as well as the potential for accelerated private sector growth.
Current ESW focuses on the linkages between growth, private sector, and poverty
reduction drawing on Ghana's experience and their implications for the future. These
have been central issues in the policy dialogue; in part, they were addressed in the
Bank's recent investment operations and in the last three adjustment credits.3
20.   Recent Adjustment Support. The broad objectives of the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC III), the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC) and
the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC-II) (approved in FY91 and
FY92) were to support the Government's program for promoting higher levels of
private investment and savings, as a basis for faster private sector growth. Under
SAC m, many restrictive regulatory provisions were repealed and most of the
restrictive clauses in the 1985 Investment Code were amended. The number of
2  Them included: Ghana: Towards a Dynaic Invesu,ne Respons; Ghana 2tXW and Beyond; Gh.S
Private Sector Asessmm, and Ghana: Funancial Sector Review-BrWngn Savers and investors
Together.
'  Mem thre are Privatc Investment and Susained Developmaet Promotion Crdit, SAC-m, Mem Soond
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, and the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Crdit.



6
industries reserved exclusively for Ghanaians was reduced; minimum foreign capital
requirements were lowered; and the investment license requirement was eliminated.
The program also resulted in significant reductions in, and rationalization of,
corporate tax and import tax rates. Under AGSAC, marketing of all agricultural
inputs and outputs-except cocoa exports-was liberalized. Under FINSAC-II,
increased competition in the banking sector was sought through the licensing of
private banks and the privatization of state-owned ones.
Box 1: Lessons from Previous Structural Adjustment Credits in Ghana
Govemment commitment has been a key factor in the success achieved in IDA-supported adjustment
credits in Ghana. This is confirmed in OED audits of the first and second structural adjustment
credits and in the Project Completion Reports for the third adjustment credit.  When the
Government's commitment was uneven across individual components of the program, as in the third
adjustment credit, well-owned components of the program succeeded; others did poorly.
The development impact of the first and second structural adjustment credits was assessed as highly
positive; it was assessed as mixed for the third credit. The mixed result was not because conditions
were not met, but because the conditions were not well-specified in reform components like
divestiture and civil service; what was implemented in these two areas was not significant. The
initial design was faulty.
These are the key lessons from the three adjustment operations, as cited in the OED audits and the
Project Completion Reports:
*  both political and official levels of government and non-government stakeholders must be
included at the design stage to strengthen the country's ownership of the program;
* intensive preparatory work by the Bank and the Government, up-front actions, and clearly
defined tranche conditions in all reform areas reduce risk of non-compliance by confirming
ownership;
*  macroeconomic stability and institutional and legal arrangements to stimulate private
investment must be established early;
*  the private sector must be convinced that there is a shift in official attitudes in favor of the
private sector; and
*  hands-on supervision by Bank staff should supplement Ghanaian efforts.
Overall the reforms under the adjustment program have been substantial and locked in. A reversal
in policy direction is judged by OED audits and by the Project Completion Report to be highly
improbable.
21.   IDA's Investment Support. IDA has also assisted the private sector through
several investment credits aimed at the development of small and medium enterprises,
and the provision of technical assistance and long-term capital (see Annex 8). Among
the recent ones is the Private Enterprise and Export Development project, approved
two years ago, which is assisting private exporters by providing technical assistance to
facilitate export activity and short-term finance; it also supported the preparation of
the new Investment Act. The Private Sector Development project, approved in
December 1994, will strengthen the research and development infrastructure,
commercialize trade development and support systems, and support small and medium
enterprises in developing bankable projects and in improving their creditworthiness.
The Non-Bank Financial Institutions project (under preparation) will provide technical



7
assistance in support of the privatization of the insurance sector as well as investments
in improving the legal and financial infrastructure to facilitate efficient operation of
the non-bank financial sector.
22.   Crowding-in the Private Sector. The Bank is also encouraging the
Government to involve the private sector in the provision of public services. In
telecommunications, the Bank is actively supporting (through PSAC and an
investment operation currently under preparation) the development of an enabling
environment for private sector participation. Privatization of the telecommunication
operations of Ghana Posts and Telecomunications Corporation, referred to as Ghana
Telecom, is also planned, and a regulatory framework for the sector has been
developed and is being presented to Parliament. The Thermal Power project,
approved in February 1995, will not only expand power generation capacity but will
also support the development of an appropriate regulatory framework for facilitating
private participation in power generation. In infrastructure, the Highway Sector
Investment Credit under preparation for FY96 will support the expeditious
implementation of rehabilitation, as well as periodic and routine maintenance of trunk,
urban, and feeder roads to enhance the conditions of the road network. In
agriculture, IDA support for small-scale and infrastructure and the feeder roads
network through ongoing Agriculture Sector Investment Credit and Feeder Roads
project, will crowd-in private investment in the sector.
23.  IFC. Ghana's private sector development has been supported by IFC. As of
the end of February 28, 1995, IFC's gross loan and equity investments totaled
US$404.1 million. Resources have been targeted to the mining, tourism, and
industrial sectors through direct project financing and through capital markets. IFC
has also been active in the development of the financial sector: it participated in the
creation of Consolidated Discount House Limited and Ghana Leasing Company and is
providing hands-on assistance to the Government in the development of the Ghana
Stock Exchange. In the privatization field, IFC participated directly in two
transactions, and prepared the valuation study on Ashanti, which underpinned the
divestiture of the Government's shares. Seventeen projects are being assisted under
IFC's Africa Enterprise Fund. As of February 1995, IFC had assisted 22 small and
medium-sized Ghanaian entrepreneurs in developing marketing and other skills as part
of its Africa Project Development Facility (APDF). Both IFC and APDF opened
satellite offices in the country in May 1993. IFC expects to expand its operations in
Ghana, with an emphasis on diversification in value-added activities in the agriculture
and manufacturing sectors.
24.   MIGA. There has been MIGA guarantee operation in the mining sector in
FY93 and several others are under consideration.
IV. THE PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
25.   The proposed Credit is intended to support the Government's program to
promote private sector growth by accelerating the pace of privatization and by



8
maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework, including
improvements in the management and poverty-orientation of public expenditure.
A.    Privatization
26.   The privatization component of the PSAC program seeks to further reduce the
role of Govemment in the productive sectors and to signal stronger government
commitment to enlarging the role of the private sector in the economy. It has three
parts. The first part covers 46 pre-selected medium-sized SOEs. The second covers
64 small SOEs and the third part comprises four large and strategic SOEs including
Ghana Telecom and State Insurance Corporation (see attachment in Annex 5 for the
list of SOEs). In addition, the privatization component of the program seeks to
develop Ghanaian consensus on private participation in cocoa export marketing and on
ways to introduce such participation through a study on the scope, method, and
potential impact of cocoa export liberalization.
1.    Past Divestiture Efforts
27.   At the beginning of the divestiture program in 1988, there were 260 SOEs
owned directly by the Government as well as indirectly through state-owned banks
where the Government had majority shareholding. At the time of preparation of this
operation, after divesting 64 SOEs between 1989 and 1993 (see Table 1 for the annual
rate of divestiture during that period), a total of 196 majority-owned SOEs,
accounting for 20 percent of formal employment, remained.4
28.   Problems with Divestiture Process. Underlying the earlier slow pace of the
divestiture program were a lack of clarity in the Government's objectives of
privatization5 and an ad hoc and non-transparent divestiture process. This caused
transaction costs to be high and outcomes to be highly unpredictable, undermining
investor interest. There were no clear procedures for selecting SOEs for divestiture
or for determining the role of ministries or agencies in the implementation process.
Nor was the process for implementing divestiture of the chosen SOEs clearly codified.
There were no standardized bid documents nor explicit selection criteria for SOE
tenders. Price bids could not be compared across bidders because bids came with
different non-price terms and the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) often
carried out post-bid negotiations with all bidders simultaneously. As a result, the
number of bidders was often too low and, where there were many bidders, most were
not serious investors. The Secretariat for the DIC, charged with implementing
divestiture, lacked sufficient staff and skills to implement the process more
expeditiously.
4  Of these, another 10 have been divested by March 1995 as part of the privatization program supported
by this Credit.
Initially, the Government aw divestiture as a means of reducing the fiscal burden by liquidating SOEs;
subsequently there was a gradual recognition that sale of SOEs as ongoing concens to private sector
could improve efficiency and promote the private sector.



9
Table 1: Progress in Divesting SOEs, 1989-93
1989-90      1991       1992        1993      Total
(Number of SOEs)
Liquidation                             22          2          2          6         34
Privatization
Full payment                           7           3          7          1         18
Partial payment                        5           3          3          1         12
Total                                   34          8         12          8         64
(USS million)
Total receipts                        12.1       39.7       22.4        2.2        66.7
2.     The Proposed Program
29.    To accelerate the pace of privatization, the Government's proposed program
seeks to enhance the transparency of the divestiture procedures, use alternative
methods for divesting SOEs, and contract private firms to implement the divestiture of
SOEs. The Government has approved at the Cabinet level the procedures for
divestiture (see Annex 2) including those for subcontracting implementation to private
firms. The various methods of divestiture would include liquidation, or sale by public
auction, by private placement coupled with public offering of minority shares, and by
public offering of majority SOE shares. All methods of sale would seek a core
private investor with controlling share and ensure that at least 51 percent of the shares
of privatized SOEs are held by the private sector parties as a whole. The purpose of
a core investor with a controlling share is to ensure that the private buyer has both
interest and control for improving the management and performance of the SOEs.
30.    PSAC Deliverables in Privatization. The Government's privatization
program, supported by this Credit, expects to sell or liquidate a total of 48 small and
medium SOEs out of a total number of 110 small and medium SOEs covered by the
program.7 Of these, 10 SOEs have already been sold. As a condition of second
tranche release, the Government would complete the sale or liquidation of at kast 14
enterprises, including at least 4 medium-sized enterprises. As a condition of third
tranche release, the Government would complete the sale or liquidation of at least 24
enterprises provided that such 24 enterprises taken together with the 14 enterprises
Liquidation of an enterprise is defined as termination of its legal personality and tranfer of all its assets.
Sale of an enterprise is defined as either (a) sale of at Least 51 percent of shar to private sctor puties,
provided that the shacholding of the largest private sector party or group exceeds the aggregate
shareholding of public sector entities in the enterprise, or (b) sale of at least 75 percent of sharues of the
enterprise to private sector parties.
7   The operation has been designed to require liquidation or sale of lss than 50 percent of the 110
identified SOE that are part of the program. The total sale or liquidation of 48 small and medium
majority-owned SOEs, will consist of 14 medium-sized SOEs and 34 small SOBs out of a pro-scheduled
list of 110 small and medium SOEs accounting for 30 percent of SOE employment and 6 percent of
formal employment (see list in Annex 5). The list includes around 10 Scom' SOEs-previously off
limits to privatization-each with employment in excess of 1,000 workers. If the 4 lare strategic SOBs
are included, the covergc of SOEs under the program would rise to 40 percent of SOE employment and
8 percent of formal employment.



10
referred to above include at least 14 medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the
Government's program envisages completion of pre-privatization preparation for four
large and strategic SOEs-Ghana Telecom, State Insurance Corporation, State
Housing Corporation, and Mim Timber-of which three will be offered for sales
within the program period. An action plan for preparing these four SOEs has been
adopted (see Annex 4). As a condition of third tranche release, the Government will
offer for sale (i) Ghana Telecom, i.e., the company to which the assets of the
Telecomnunications Division of the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation will have been transferred, and (ii) at least two of the following three
enterprises: Mim Timber Company Limited, State Insurance Corporation of Ghana,
and State Housing Corporation.
31.   Absorptive Capacity. It is difficult to project definitively the capacity of the
market to buy Ghanaian SOEs. However, the available evidence suggests that there is
sufficient demand for selling 48 small and medium SOEs within the program period-
and hence the program targets can be met. Entrepreneurs, in and out of Ghana, have
confirmed their interest-individually and institutionally-through the Private Sector
Roundtable. Contrary to earlier expectations, Ghanaians-individuals and firms-
bought shares in AGC worth as much as US$23 million and made downpayments to
the DIC on sales contracts for another US$1.3 million of SOEs, all in the first half of
1994. Foreign investors confirm that there is heightened interest in and capacity to
buy Ghanaian SOEs. International fund managers purchased US$25 million in shares
of Ghanaian manufacturing companies in March 1994 and foreign firms invested
about US$15 million in mining companies last year. These purchases of shares in
Ghanaian companies exceeded anything that could have been predicted from past
experience.
32.   Implementation Capacity. Private firms-generally merchant banks,
consulting companies, and legal/auditing firms-are expected to implement most of
the privatization transactions under contract to the Govemment. This would privatize
the privatization process and harness the drive and energy of the private sector's
marketing capacity. The responsibility of the private implementing firms would
include preparing the information memorandum or prospectus on SOEs, developing
the marketing strategy, advertising the sale for private placement and for public
auction, floating the public offering in the stock exchange, selecting the core buyer
and finally executing the sale after Government's approval of the selected buyer. DIC
will pre-qualify private subcontractors, invite and evaluate bids from them, and read
contracts and process the approval of the Govemment once the subcontractor has
selected a private buyer for the SOE. In addition, DIC will continue to implement
divestiture of SOEs that were on the original list of DIC. The skills required for
divesting small- and medium-sized SOEs are available in Ghana in sufficient supply.
Estimates of the size of skilled work force resource requirements suggest that 36 staff
years of private implementing firms' time, 8 staff years of the DIC secretariat's time,
@  Offered for sale in defined u follows: the Government hu (a) curied out a valuation of the enterprise,
(b) prepared a prospectus or information memorandum for the enterprise, and (c) solicitd offer for sle
of such enterprise from the private sector, either directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate
nwswpapern.



11
4 staff years of legal counsel, and 4 staff years of valuing firms' time will be required
(see Annex 3). The staff resources can be provided by large auditing firms, law
firms, private banks, and numerous consulting companies operating in Ghana.
33.   Financial and Technical Support for Implementing PSAC Program.
Ongoing and planned technical assistance operations by IDA and by the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom to provide financial
support for implementing the PSAC program. IDA's current Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance (PETA) project and the Economic Management Support (EMS)
project will support the implementation of the accelerated divestiture program and the
public financial management reform program, respectively. In addition, IDA's Third
Telecommunications project, the Non-Bank Financial Institution Technical Assistance
project, and the Financial Management Technical Assistance project all under
preparation-together with PHRD grants and project preparation facilities-will
support the pre-privatization preparation of Ghana Telecom and State Insurance
Corporation, and the implementation of public financial management reform,
respectively. Also ODA is expected to continue its ongoing assistance to the
divestiture program and initiate new support for public financial management.
34.   Likely Fiscal Impact. Broadly speaking, based on the available evidence, this
privatization program will be fiscally neutral. Fiscal receipts from completed
divestiture can finance the end-of-service benefits that provide a "safety net" for SOE
workers. It is difficult to forecast the sales prices of SOEs or the exact timing of
sales, but all estimates of book value suggest that the total proceeds from divestiture
of 48 SOEs would be adequate to cover the costs. The elimination of government
transfer payments to the 48 SOEs will also add to that fiscal gain. On the expenditure
side, end-of-service benefits, consisting of gratuities and severance payments, are
expected to be around US$36 million. Other costs to the Government arise from the
fees paid to private implementing firms.
35.   Likely Social Impact. The social impact from the divestiture program is
expected to be relatively small. Only liquidated SOEs-most of them small-will
retrench all their workers; SOEs sold as viable ongoing concems will probably
retrench a part of their work force. Thus, total retrenchments for 48 small and
medium SOEs is not expected to exceed 5,000 workers. The generous end-of-service
benefit payments will facilitate the absorption of retrenched workers in the economy
as the past experience with civil service retrenchments suggests.
36.   Environmental Liabilities. Some of the enterprises being privatized in certain
sectors-in particular, mining, petroleum, and timber-may have environmental
liabilities that need to be examined before sale. Potential investors will need
clarification from the Government about the scope of past problems and mitigation
requirements if any. To address these concerns the Government is considering the
possibility of routine environmental audits, where necessary, as part of the technical
preparation for privatization. These audits should specify the estimated cost of
cleaning up past environmental problems and of improving operations to comply with
current environmental standards. With this information, the Government can clarify



12
for potential investors their environmental responsibility. In all cases, privatized
firms will be subject to the same environmental laws and standards as other
companies.
37.   Cocoa Marketing. The dominance of the parastatal Cocoa Board has been
reduced through restructuring and retrenching, but cocoa export marketing remains a
high-cost government monopoly. Six private traders were active in domestic cocoa
marketing for the first time in the 1992-93 season, and they bought about 25 percent
of cocoa production in the 1994-95 season. The Government plans to assess the gains
from private domestic trading in cocoa and examine the potential gains from cocoa
export liberalization and the phasing of its implementation.
38.   PSAC Program for Cocoa. The proposed program for cocoa will support
actions aimed at build Ghanaian ownership of measures to liberalize cocoa exports.
The letter will be supported by a subsequent adjustment operation. Since the
Government wants to move cautiously in liberalizing export marketing for fear of
jeopardizing Ghanaian cocoa's quality premium-a strategy that was in line with that
adopted under IDA's ongoing Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit-this Program
will help build consensus through a study on external marketing of cocoa and
consultations on its findings. The Government has agreed on the terms of reference
for the study on external marketing of cocoa (see Annex 6) and set up a task force to
oversee the consensus-building process. The study will attempt to assess the current
state of the cocoa export marketing arrangements in Ghana, examine the experience
with export marketing systems in other cocoa-producing countries, especially those
that have liberalized export marketing arrangements, and lay out the options for
phasing cocoa export liberalization in Ghana. As a condition of second tranche
release, the Government will have completed and delivered to the Association the
study on liberalization of cocoa export marketing.
B.   Macroeconomic Policy Framework
39.   Sustaining a stable, liberal, and viable macroeconomic policy framework is a
pre-condition for sustained private sector growth.9 Indeed, the collapse of private
savings and investment after 1991 in the wake of the fiscal shock in 1992 gives ample
testimony to the importance of macroeconomic stability for private sector growth.
Meanwhile, improved management and poverty orientation of public expenditure and
public service restructuring are important for medium-term sustainability of fiscal and
macroeconomic stability. With growth in revenues likely to be slower and the
provision of social services likely to be more urgent, improving the effectiveness and
efficiency of public expenditures will be essential to restraining growth in aggregate
expenditures. Also, given the current large size of both the public service and the
wage-related expenditures, the threat of another significant wage shock remains.
Thus, restructuring and downsizing the public service is critical for sustaining
Ghana will maintain i current mariet-etermrned myiem and avoid increuc in the curmt level of
inport protc:tion and export taxea.



13
macroeconomic stability and for recruiting and retaining better trained managers and
professionals at better wage rates.
1.     Short-Term  Macroeconomic Policies
40.    The program for 1995, which the Government is now implementing, seeks an
improvement in the fiscal balance from a deficit of 0.8 percent of GDP in 1994
(excluding excess divestiture receipts) to a surplus of 1.2 percent. Credit policy aims
at 14 percent growth in money supply and the rate of inflation is targeted to slow
down to 23 percent by the end of the year on an annual basis. Real GDP growth is
projected to be 5 percent and the current account deficit (including official transfers)
is expected to fall from 6 percent of GDP in 1994 to 3.7 percent in 1995. For 1996
and 1997, the likely targets for end-of-year inflation are 8 percent and 5 percent,
respectively, while for real GDP growth, it is 5.1 percent and 5.5 percent,
respectively, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Framework
(Target Variables in percent)
Actual                      Tarcets
1994           1995          1996           1997
Growth Rate                           3.8           5.0            5.1            5.5
Inflaion (end-period)                34.0          23.0            8.0            5.0
(period average)              25.0           31.0          12.0            6.0
Fiscal current accoune                4.7           2.1            3.6            4.3
Narrow fiscal balanceb               -1. 1           1.2           1.2            1.5
Exchange rate, interest rate,  Maintenance of market-deternined trade and exchange rate systen free
and tradepricing regunes     of controls, with no increase in import protection or export taxes.
External current account             -6.0          -3.7           -3.7           -3.1
=       (percentage of GDP)
Total revenue minus current expenditure. (Note that excess divestiture receipts is included in 1994.)
i Total revenue and program grants minus total expenditure excluding capital outlays financed by external
project aid.
External current account balance including official grant.
41.    1995 Budget. To meet the overall fiscal target, the budget for 1995
announced a range of measures aimed at raising revenues. An import duty of 10
percent was imposed on around one-half of goods that were previously zero-rated or
exempt from tax. The rate of sales tax was lifted from 15 to 17.5 percent and, on
March 1, expanded into a VAT that covers the retail and services sectors.10 In
addition, petroleum prices were raised by an average of over 20 percent, while
various user fees and charges were also increased. Economies have been identified
that will enable government expenditures to be cut by around one percent of GDP in
1995 relative to 1994. The civil service wage bill will be allowed to rise by no more
10  The VAT applies to a range of service, such as electricity supply, telecommunications, and professional
services, that was not previously taxed. In the intert of caution, however, the ficl projections do not
incorporate the impact of a broadening of the tax base or any improvement in the efficiency of the tax
collection machinery.



14
than 25 percent, which would represent a modest contraction relative to GDP.
Savings will also be forthcoming in other areas of recurrent spending, although
domestic interest payments are expected to rise as a result of increased open-market
operations by the Bank of Ghana. While the budget for 1995 provides for the use of
a specified amount of divestiture proceeds for budgetary purposes, any receipts in
excess of this amount will be used for domestic or external debt reduction or for the
acquisition of foreign assets. The borrowing by GNPC from the Central Bank has
largely been a consequence of poor investments undertaken in areas outside the
petroleum sector, and substantive steps are being taken to address GNPC's financial
problems.
42.   Downside Risks. Though the program for 1995 is less ambitious and more
feasible, the Government will need to pay close attention to three areas of
macroeconomic policy implementation where downside risks exist. First, the
uncertainties regarding exchange rates and world prices of exports and weaknesses in
customs administration may affect revenue. Second, while the Government's
determination in successfully resisting demands for additional public sector pay
increases in 1994 bodes well for its ability to meet the wage targets for 1995,
especially given the NIRP, close vigilance will continue to be necessary. Third,
although reasonable allowance has been made for increases in the operating costs of
the Cocoa Board, its past spending record demands that a close watch will be
maintained.
43.   Monitoring Macroeconomic Policies. Frequent monitoring of
macroeconomic policies will be undertaken by both the Fund and the Bank during the
1995-97 period. The joint Bank-Fund PFP mission in March 1995 was concluded
successfully. A program under the successor ESAF is expected to be finalized by
June 1995. There will thus be Fund reviews of the macroeconomic performance and
policy twice a year as well as Bank and Fund consultations with the Government
every year for developing the medium term Policy Framework Paper.
44.   External Fmancing. The external financing requirements will decline, but by
less than the decline in the current account deficit. This is because Ghana needs to
rebuild its usable foreign exchange reserves. The requirements for concessional
finance will fall but its predominance will continue notwithstanding the projected
doubling of foreign investment. Program aid on the other hand is projected to rise
during the 1995-97 period to accommodate the build-up of reserves and the bulk of it
will be bilateral aid. The Government has requested an IMF program under the
ESAF as a hedge against possible shortfalls in bilateral program aid flows, as indeed
happened in 1994. Ghana is expected to have access to 60 percent of its IMF quota
amounting to around US$80 million per year for the 1995-97 period; this is expected
to strengthen bilateral donor flows during the biennial Consultative Group meeting in
June 1995. Ongoing and planned IDA adjustment operations (including this Credit)
will disburse around US$85 million in 1995, and about half as much in the succeeding
two years. Thus, the Bank and the Fund will share the burden of filling the projected
financing gap with other donors.



15
2.    Public Expenditure Management
45.   With growth in revenue tapering off, the Government's program to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures is essential for restraining
aggregate expenditures and sustaining macroeconomic stability in the medium term.
Measures to strengthen the budget preparation system, the contracting system, and the
expenditure accounting and monitoring system will contribute to that end. With better
control and management of expenditures, increasing real expenditures on rural
infrastructure, basic education and primary health, better targeting of those sector
expenditures will be both more feasible and more monitorable.
46.   Past Efforts. Though Ghana has implemented important changes in the public
financial management in the last decade, more remains to be done. Past reforms have
been piecemeal but they were useful in light of the disarray in public expenditure
management at the start of the ERP. The changes included significant improvements
in mobilizing resources, increasing expenditures in critical areas, ensuring that inter-
sectoral and intra-sectoral budget allocations are in line with declared priorities, and
developing the Government's capacity to monitor and manage expenditures. Revenue
increased from 5 percent of GDP in 1984 to 13 percent of GDP in 1988 and 16
percent in 1994. And expenditures, especially in infrastructure and in social services
increased correspondingly.
47.   Problems in Expenditure Management. The Govemment's ability to
monitor and manage expenditure efficiently remains weak. The Govemment, in their
public expenditure review for 1993 and their subsequent report on Public Financial
Management Reform Program, identified the following problems: inadequate
ownership of sector ministries in the preparation and execution of the budget, weak
expenditure monitoring and control mechanisms, an inadequate accounting system,
and insufficient capacity to control development expenditure, especially expenditure
on its multi-year contracts for building roads and buildings.
48.   Goals of Improved Management. The medium-term goals of improved
expenditure management are to increase efficiency by ensuring accurate information,
better control, timely disbursements and conformity of actual inter-sectoral and intra-
sectoral spending with their budgetary allocations. Measures to achieve these goals
are based on the diagnosis provided by the Govemment's own 1993 Public
Expenditure Review and their medium-term reform strategy for a well-functioning
public financial management system.
49.   Measures to Improve Expenditure Management. Though the details of
many of the measures will emerge out of the process of inter-ministerial consultations
on design and user requirements, the key stages and goals of the Program are stated
in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5). They envisage implementation of
measures in three areas. First, measures to improve the monitoring of public
expenditures (payments and commitments) in sector ministries wil be implemented.
Second, a detailed accounting system wiU be designed and implemented. Third,
actions to improve the design, monitoring, and implementation of large contracts



16
spanning several years (i.e., multi-year contracts) in the Ministries of Roads and
Highways and Works and Housing, would also be taken. Such contracts frequently
exceed their original budgets by significant amounts and reasons for this include price
provisions in the contracts linked to selected cost indices, inflexibility of work and
programming, and a tendency of the ministries to increase the scope of work through
variations in the original contract. In line with the above, the Government will take
the following actions:
(a)   In the area of expenditure monitoring, as a condition of second tranche
release, the Government wil implement an expenditure monitoring
system in the Ministries of Finance, Roads and Highways, Works and
Housing, Education, Health, and Information, satisfactory to the
Association. This will cover around 40 percent of total expenditures.
As a condition of third tranche release, the Government will implement
the expenditure monitoring system in at least another 10 ministries (in
addition to the six referred to above) responsible for at least 30 percent
of allocations in its most recent annual budget;
(b)   In the area of accounting, as a condition of second tranche release, the
Government will design an accounting system satisfactory to the
Association, and as a condition of third tranche release, implement the
system in the six ministries cited above; and
(c)   In the area of multi-year contracting, as a condition for second tranche
release, the Government wil assess the current system and design a
revised contracting system. The revised system should address the
problems cited above. As a condition for third tranche release,
implement in the Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry of
Works and Housing the revised contracting system to address the
problems cited above.
50.   Poverty Orientation of Expenditures. Notwithstanding the weakness of the
current data base, available information suggests that the poverty orientation of public
expenditures improved significantly under the ERP. Nevertheless, more needs to be
done in terms of altering the intra-sectoral composition of social expenditures (e.g.,
basic vs. terdary education; primary vs. non-primary health), as also the distribution
between wage and non-wage recurrent expenditures in the social sectors; expenditure
on rural infrastructure could also be raised. Public expenditures (excluding aid) on
education have risen from 1.4 percent in 1983 to 4.0 percent of GDP in 1993 (similar
to the Sub-Saharan African average) and on health from 0.8 percent to 1.4 percent of
GDP (lower than the Sub-Saharan African average) over the same period. More than
80 percent of spending on basic education is on wage expenditures. Ghana's tertiary
education system compares favorably with countries of similar income levels but the
coverage and quality of basic education lag behind others. The literacy level is about
55 percent (functional literacy is only 35-40 percent). The health care system is
biased towards curative care and towards urban areas. Only about 50 percent of the
rural population has access to health facilities.



17
51.   Poverty Profile. Poverty is predominantly rural. Some 34 percent of the
rural inhabitants and 31 percent of all Ghanaians are poor (defined as households with
per capita expenditure below half of the mean), deriving 90 percent of their income
from self employment. Most of the poor live in the Savannah, the Volta basin and
the mid-coast zones-these areas account for 64 percent of the nation's poor but only
32 percent of the population. Thus zonal targeting-whether of health care, basic
education, water supply, or rural roads-that focuses on areas with generalized
poverty is likely to be more cost effective than targeting within better-off areas. Also
the poorest receive a disproportionately low share of total health spending. Lending
in support of projects that increase opportunities for the poor in those areas, re-
orienting public expenditures towards social sectors and rural infrastructure and
improving the accounting and monitoring system are part of the poverty-alleviation
strategy." The Government plans to examine such targeting possibilities using the
findings of the ongoing Extended Poverty Study.
52.   Improving Equity of Expenditures. During fiscal year 1995, the
Government will implement at least a 10 percent real increase in actual
expenditures-non-wage recurrent and development expenditure-on basic education,
primary health, and rural infrastructure. This will similarly be followed by at least
another 10 percent real increase during fiscal year 1996. Given the large share of
wages in recurrent expenditure, these increases will rightly focus on non-wage
recurrent expenditure. The Government is also planning to study the findings and
recommendations of the Extended Poverty Study to be completed in May 1995 to
improve the monitoring of the level and incidence of social sector expenditures and
the targeting of such expenditures towards the poorest regions and poorest income
groups. The level of expenditures on basic education and primary health are lower
than several other countries in the region. Growth in non-wage recurrent and
development expenditure, even at twice the rate of real GDP growth, will raise the
GDP share of such expenditures only marginally from its share in 1994. Also, such
increases are unlikely to be constrained by the overall fiscal situation because they
constitute a small share of total expenditures. For example, non-wage recurrent and
development expenditure on basic education and primary health constitute a very
small proportion of total expenditures. As a condition of second tranche release, the
Government will increase during fiscal year 1995, by at least IO percent, in real
terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (i) recurrent non-wage
expenditures and (ii) development expenditures for the following sub-sectors: basic
education, primary health, and rural infrastructure. Consistent with this, the
Government's 1995 budget reflects these increases. As a condition for third tranche
release, the Government will increase during the fiscal year 1996, by at least 20
percent, in real terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both by (i)
recurrent non-wage expenditures, and (ii) development expenditures for the following
sub-sectors: basic education, primary health, and rural infrastructure.
Ongoing MDA projects such as Agriculture Sector Investment, National Feeder Roads, and Community
Water and Sanitation and Educational/Vocational Training, as well as planned project such as
Population, Health and Nutrition, Basic Education, Small-Scale Mining, Fisheries are directed towards
that end.



18
3.    Medium-Term Sustainability and Public Service
53.   Ghana has promising medium- and long-term growth potential. The base case
envisages the growth rate of real GDP reaching at least 6.3 percent by the year 2004,
though more rapid growth can be achieved earlier if the authorities proceed more
quickly with the reform program and maintain macroeconomic balance in the medium
term. By 1997 inflation is expected to stabilize at 5 percent, the current account
deficit (including official transfers) would decline to 3.1 percent of GDP and the
fiscal surplus (narrow) would rise to 1.5 percent of GDP. Greater external
adjustment may be feasible if exports grow more rapidly than projected.
54.   Export Performance. Merchandise exports have risen at an annual rate of
around 7 percent over the last ten years to reach US$1.2 billion in 1994. The three
principal export commodities-gold, cocoa, and timber-account for 77 percent of
total exports. Non-traditional exports have grown significantly but still only account
for about 7 percent of total exports. Exports of non-traditional goods rose from
US$28 million in 1987 to around US$85 million in 1994. Most of this growth is due
to export markets in the industrialized countries. Exports of processed products have
risen from US$13 million in 1989 to US$50 million in 1994. A wide range of non-
traditional agricultural products, including horticulture, fish and seafood, and game
and wildlife products amounting to around US$30 million is also exported. Growth
of Ghana's non-traditional exports to those markets averaged over 20 percent a year
since 1990 and the potential for future growth in those markets is high. Current
projections expect the share of non-traditional exports to reach around 20 percent by
2000.
55.   Public Service. A critical issue for medium-term sustainability will be the
public service wage and wage-related expenditures which is about 9 percent of GDP.
An ineffective public service and the potential for medium-term macroeconomic
stability are intimately linked. Any attempt to enhance effectiveness of the public
service will require significant downsizing of the work force, because recruiting and
retaining a larger number of trained managers and professionals would require a more
competitive incentive framework; the latter is fiscally infeasible without downsizing
the service.
56.   Past Efforts at Public Service Reform. Though Ghanaian civil service
reform, initiated in 1987, has been more successful in terms of retrenchments than
most other countries in the region, the public service remains large and inadequately
effective. Past efforts have concentrated on reducing the number of public service
employees and, at improving compensation at higher levels. The redeployment or
retrenchment program proceeded aggressively in both the Civil Service and in the
Ghana Education Service. Between 1987 and 1993, about 50,000 civil servants were
redeployed or retrenched in gross terms, roughly 12,000 per year. This stands in
contrast to the experience in most other countries. The salary structure ratio was also
decompressed significantly from 3:1 in 1985 to 13:1 in 1992. However, the skill
level of the service remains low, the size of the service and the wage bill remains
large, and on average, financial and motivational incentives continue to be inadequate.



19
57.   New Capacity Building Approach. The Government has been rethinking its
original approach to public service reform, while maintaining the goals of a leaner
and more effective public service. This is part of a larger government initiative to
promote capacity building with good govemance. Sensitizing employees as well as
the beneficiaries of Government services to the need for reforms is the Government's
chosen path under its program of "National Institutional Renewal." The process
begun in late 1993. To signal strong government commitment at the highest level to
public service reform, the President established in December 1994 the National
Oversight Committee (composed of ministers, academics and private representatives)
to advise him. The Committee is assisted by a National Technical Policy Group
charged with examining the technical aspects of key issues related to public service
restructuring, involving civil service reform, capacity building in government, and
rationalization of subvented agencies. The timetable for the work of the Committee
and its recommendations are shown in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy (see Annex 5). The Committee's recommendations on measures to achieve a
smaler but more effective public service and the dissemination of the
recommendations are expected to be completed within the program period.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Credit History
58.   Our approach in preparing the Credit has been to invite the Ghanians for their
inputs and choices on the program and to wait until they were ready. IDA responded
to the Govemment's questions and concerns and provided studies of divestiture
Processes and performance in other countries. The credit processing began in August
1993 with an identification mission in September. After that there were three small
(two-person) pre-appraisal missions by July 1994. The appraisal mission was in
September-October 1994. The preparation of this operation has taken longer as a
result. But it has also meant greater Ghanaian ownership of the program and more
up-front actions. It, thus, portends greater and more sustainable development impact.
B.   Tranching and Conditions
59.   Tranches. The proposed credit of US$70 million is to be disbursed in three
tranches of US$30 million, US$15 million, and US$25 million, respectively. The
first tranche will be available for disbursement upon credit effectiveness. The second
tranche is expected to be released after ten months following the release of the first
tranche and the third tranche is expected after another ten months.
60.   Upfront Actions. Prior to negotiation of the Credit, the Government had:
(a)   approved at the Cabinet level, the accelerated divestiture program and
the selection of 110 small and medium enterprises (SOEs) and 4 large
strategic ones;



20
(b)   approved at the Cabinet level, the procedures for divestiture and
disseminated them to the public;
(c)   completed sale of 10 enterprises to the private sector;
(d)   invited bids to register private firms for award of contracts for
implementing divestiture of 15 SOEs;
(e)   agreed on an action plan for pre-privatization preparation of four
strategic enterprises, Ghana Telecom, Mim Timber, State Insurance
Corporation, and State Housing Corporation with the purpose of
offering Ghana Telecom and two others for sale within the program
period;
(f)   agreed on the terms of reference for the cocoa export marketing study;
(g)   adopted an action plan for implementing a satisfactory accounting and
expenditure monitoring system as well as a new contracting system
over the program period; and
(h)   agreed on the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1995-97.
61.   Second Tranche. In addition to ensuring a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program described in the Government's Letter of
DeveloPment Policy (see Annex 5) and satisfactory progress in carrying out the
Program, the Government has, before the release of the second tranche:
(a)   completed the sale or liquidation of at least 14 enterprises as provided
in the Program including at least 4 medium-sized enterprises;
(b)   completed and delivered to the Association, the study referred to in the
Program regarding the liberalization of cocoa export marketing;
(c)   increased during fiscal year 1995, by at least 10 percent, in real terms
based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (i) recurrent
non-wage expenditures and (ii) development expenditures for the
following sub-sectors: (1) basic education, (2) primary health, and (3)
rural infrastructure;
(d)   completed the assessment of the contracting system employed by the
Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry of Works and
Housing, and designed a revised contracting system, satisfactory to the
Association, consistent with the results of such assessment and the
objectives set forth in the Program;
(e)   implemented an expenditure monitoring system in the Ministries of
Finance, Roads and Highways, Works and Housing, Education, Health,



21
and Information, satisfactory to the Association, meeting the objectives
set forth in the Program; and
(f)   designed an accounting system, satisfactory to the Association, meeting
the objectives set out in the Program for use by the six ministries listed
in para. 61(e) above.
62.   Third Tranche. In addition to ensuring a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program, described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (see Annex 5) and satisfactory progress in carrying out the
Program, the Government has, before the release of the third tranche:
(a)   completed the sale or liquidation of at least 24 enterprises as provided
in the Program, provided that such 24 enterprises taken together with
the 14 enterprises referred to in para. 61 (a) above include at least 14
medium-sized enterprises;
(b)   offered for sale:
the company to which the assets of the Telecommunications
Division of the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation have been transferred; and
-     at least two of the following three enterprises: Mim Timber
Company Limited, State Insurance Corporation of Ghana, and
State Housing Corporation;
(c)   increased during the fiscal year 1996, by at least 20 percent, in real
terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (i)
recurrent non-wage expenditures, and (ii) development expenditures for
the following sub-sectors: (1) basic education, (2) primary health, and
(3) rural infrastructure, and thereafter has at least maintained such level
of actual expenditures;
(d)   implemented in the Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry
of Works and Housing the revised contracting system referred to in
para. 61(d) above;
(e)   implemented the expenditure monitoring system in at least another 10
ministries (in addition to the six referred to in para. 61(e) above)
responsible for at least 30 percent of allocations in its most recet
annual budget; and
(f)   implemented the accounting system referred to in pam. 61(f) above in
the six ministries listed in para. 61(e) above.



22
C.   Procurement and Disbursement
63.   Coordinating Agency. The coordinating agency is the Bank of Ghana (BOG)
which would administer the Credit on behalf of the Government and disburse funds
through the interbank market. The BOG has extensive previous experience in
coordinating an import program, has coordinated imports under recent SAC HI and
AGSAC projects and will assure compliance with the agreed procurement
arrangements. BOG also, through the use of experienced Ghana Supply Commission
(GSC), will coordinate the handling, distribution, and storage of procurement and
disbursement documentation to ensure easy retrieval for auditing and Bank review.
64.   Auditing of Accounts and Procedures. BOG will (a) maintain separate
accounts to record disbursements and repayments; (b) arrange for an audit of such
accounts by auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) submit certified copies of the relevant
audited accounts to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The
auditors report would point out whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at the
Bank of Ghana regarding the use of statements of expenditures.
65.   Goods to be Financed. The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be used
exclusively to finance the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports through the
interbank market. Since the purpose of the Credit is to support the balance of
payments, all goods normally imported by the Government of Ghana (GOG) will be
financed. However, consistent with Bank policies that credit proceeds be used for
private sector development, such items as military hardware, luxury goods, and
environmental hazardous goods are excluded by the use of a 'negative" list. The
negative list follows the groups and subgroups of the Standard International Trade
Classification (SITC) and future revisions of groups and subgroups by SlTC. In
order to discourage the concentration of financing on a single item, expenditures for
petroleum products and foodstuff in excess of an aggregate amount of US$14 million
will not be financed by the Association. In view of the external financing
requirements for 1995, and the up-front actions taken in support of the Program,
retroactive financing is necessary given that the Credit has taken longer than expected
to process in order to build ownership and consult with beneficiaries. An amount up
to 20 percent of the Credit (i.e., US$14 million) would be made available to finance
payments for expenditures made after February 1, 1995. The closing date is
October 31, 1997. Withdrawals for expenditures for procurement of goods estimated
to cost less than US$1,000,000 will be on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Customs certificates will be used as evidence and supporting documents to withdraw
funds.
66.   Procurement Procedures. Current commercial practices are based on
competitive bids and/or procurement from approved list of vendors, through limited
bidding or prudent shopping for small-value items. The practices have been reviewed
by the Association in 1985 by a Country Procurement Assessment Review, updated in
1991 with a study on the effectiveness of GSC and are acceptable to IDA. In 1993,
following AKUSE m, Country Implementation Review, the Government has accepted
proposals for streamlining procurement procedures. International suppliers are well



23
represented in Ghana and this together with the relatively free foreign exchange
market and a liberal trade regime, should ensure an internationally competitive
market. Imports exceeding US$4 million will be subject to simplified international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures using standard documents previously approved
by IDA. All contracts above a threshold of US$10 million will be subject to the
Bank's standard prior review procedures. Imports below US$4 million will be
procured according to commercial practices acceptable to IDA. Direct contracting
may be used for proprietary spares or where compatibility with existing equipment
requires use of standardized equipment. Contracts valued at less than US$10,000
equivalent will not be eligible for IDA financing.
D.   Benefits and Risks
67.   The benefits of the program are substantial and the risks of non-
implementation of the program are manageable. Successful completion of the
program should provide a significant boost to the private sector. The benefits will
come in the form of enhanced efficiency in production and delivery of services and
increased private investment. The proposed program faces risks from several sources
both to the maintenance of macroeconomic stability and to the implementation of the
privatization program. The design of the proposed program, which has taken Ghana's
past experience with adjustment operations into account, makes the risks manageable.
1.    Benefits
68.   The Government, through its actions, will have signaled strong support for an
increased role of private-sector in Ghana's future investment and growth. Opening up
the telecommunication sector to private participation and offering Ghana Telecom for
sale within the program period will mark a second important threshold in
privatization, the first being the sale of Ashanti Goldfields in 1994. Privatizing the
privatization process also augurs well for the private sector; it will harness the drive
and energy of private firms in the implementation of divestiture, and it will make the
sales more transparent and more sustained. Improved expenditure management and a
stable macroeconomic framework will give confidence to the private sector. A well-
run public financial management system can ensure that the private providers of
public services get paid on time and that complementary public investment in
infrastructure and human resources get implemented expeditiously. If the consensus-
building process initiated by the Government under the National Institutional Renewal
Program generates actual measures to restructure and downsize the public service, the
Government's ability to sustain macroeconomic stability will be perceived as credible
beyond the program period.
69.   There is likely to be significant efficiency improvements. Privatization, under
the existing liberal policy framework, will enhance efficiency and increase private
investment. With most of the 196 non-financial SOEs with majority government
holdings covered by the privatization program and a total of 20 percent of the
majority-owned SOEs fully divested within the program period, efficiency and
investment gains are likely.



24
2.    Risks Facing Macroeconomic Performance
70.   Potential problems facing the maintenance of macroeconomic stability stem
from risks to the fiscal and external accounts. On the fiscal side, a significant real
increase in public service wage and wage-related expenditures (e.g., of around
20 percent or more) will convert the projected fiscal surplus to a significant fiscal
deficit. On the external side, a large terms-of-trade shock or a significant shortfall in
concessional financing could undermine macroeconomic stability.
71.   There is, however, reason to believe that the Government is acutely aware of
this risk and may adopt measures to contain the wage pressures better than it did in
1992. The establishment of the National Oversight Committee by the President two
years before the election to oversee the National Institutional Renewal Program aimed
at ensuring a leaner and more effective public service augurs well for such
containment. Similarly, Ghana's terms of trade are projected to improve in the next
two years and remain at the new level after that, and there is little risk that the
reverse will happen. In any case, so long as the unanticipated negative terms of trade
shock is small (e.g., a 15 percent fall in cocoa prices), no major problems are
envisaged; the current account deficit would be higher by less than 1 percent of GDP
and reserves would be lower by less than a month of imports relative to the base case.
With the base case reserve level being nearly four months of imports in 1996, neither
debt servicing nor importing is likely to be a problem. If, instead, the adverse price
shock for cocoa is generalized to both gold and timber or if the size of the cocoa
price shock or the gold price shock is substantially greater, macroeconomic
performance would be undermined in the absence of additional concessional balance
of payments finance. Similarly, a small, say 10 percent, temporary shortfall in
projected concessional financing would not pose a problem, but a substantially greater
shortfall would undermine macroeconomic stability. However, the proposed access to
ESAF reduces the risk from volatility of concessional flows.
3.    Risks Facing Implementation of Privatization
72.   The expeditious implementation of the privatization program also faces risks.
First, there is a risk that the Government's commitment to privatization may waver.
The recent up-front actions taken by the Government-sale of Ashanti Goldfields, the
development of regulatory framework for private participation in telecommunication,
Cabinet approval and dissemination of the procedures for divestiture including
subcontracting to private firms-make such reversals highly unlikely. The
Government is committed to and fully owns the adjustment program in general, and
the proposed program in particular. Second, there is the risk that privatization will be
slow either because the buying capacity of the private sector is lower than estimated
or the implementation capacity of private firms is weaker than anticipated. This risk
is likely to be small for reasons discussed in paras. 31 and 32.
73.   Political Resistance. Third, there is the risk of political resistance to
privatization, even after initial successes. This could develop from two sources:
from the SOE workers who get retrenched but do not find new employment quickly



25
and/or from the general populace reacting to foreign investors' buying SOEs. Though
the Government, the Private Sector Roundtable, and the Parliament have all
recommended accelerated privatization, there is always the risk of increasing political
resistance as privatization proceeds. The relatively limited unemployment effects (see
para. 34) and the large end-of-service benefits, including severance payments, make
the risk manageable. The likely retrenchment is lower than the annual civil service
retrenchments that occurred in 1990 and 1991; all evidence suggests that civil service
employees were quickly absorbed in the economy, and mostly in rural areas. In
addition, the end-of-service benefits for SOE workers-gratuity and severance-are
substantial enough to weaken likely resistance. Sensitivity in the wake of foreign
purchases of shares in AGC and seven exchange-listed companies notwithstanding,
reaction to foreign investors has been quite mild so far. Still excessive foreign
ownership of domestic productive assets and businesses can lead to adverse reactions
from nationals, but the proposed program is too small to do that.
E.   Monitoring and Reporting
74.   Monitoring of the implementation of various components of the proposed
program will be carried out through regular supervision of progress by the Bank and
the Govemment. The Ministry of Finance will furnish the Bank for its review, a
comprehensive report on progress covering the preceding 6-month period and the
expected workplan covering the next 6-month period. The monitoring reports for the
privatization component can be prepared for the following: (1) divestiture candidates:
status with description; (2) outsourcing to private firms: status of pre-qualification,
invitation to bid for contracts, award of contracts, ongoing implementations by private
firms for subcontracted SOEs; and (3) restructuring: status according to SOE specific
implementation plans. For the reports provided just before the tranche review
missions, the above is required with supporting documents. The monitoring report
for the public expenditure should relate to each of its components: (i) expendite
monitoring system, (ii) accounting system, and (iii) multi-year contracting system.
75.   Recommendations. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
by Gautam S. Kaji
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 17, 1995






Policy Matrix
Policy erea/cument situation                   Upfront actions                                 Before second tranche                          Before thirt tranche
A. Acederatad Prializtim ?rgrm
Between 1919 and 1993, sixty-four SOEs         Cabinet approval of (a) the acelkerated diveati-    (a) Completed the sale or liquidation of at  (a) Compeited the sale or liquidation of at
have been divested in the sense that moat of   ture program covering 110 maull and medium      least 14 enterprises as provided in the        least 24 enterprises as provided in the Pro-
the proceeds have been collected between       enterprises (SOEs) and 4 large strategic ones,  Program, including at lecat 4 medium-sized     gram, provided that such 24 enterprises taken
1989 and 1993; 30 have been privatized and     and (b) procedures for divestiture; disemi-    enterprises; and                               together with the 14 enterprises referred to
34 have been liquidated. Four SOEs have        nated procedures to the public (through         (b) Completed and delivered to the Associa-   above include at lcast 14 nmedium-sized enter-
been leased. In another 16 cases, sales con-   gazette, newspaper, and brochures); sold 10    tion, the study referred to in the Program      prises; and
trctsc were signed but only a portion of the   enterpriscs; invited bids to register private   regarding the libermlization of cocoa export   (b) Offered for sale:
proceeds have been collected. Since March      firms for award of contraets to private firms   marketing.                                     -the conVany to which the assets of the Tele-
1994, Govenument shares in Ashanui and 7       for implementing divestiture of 15 SOEa;                                                      communications Divirion of the Ghana Posts
comnpanies aid on stock exchange. Tbe Stat-    agreed on action plan for pre-pfivelization of                                                 and Teleconunwnications Corporation have
utory Corporations Act for conversion of stat-  4 strategic enterprises in the Program; and                                                   been transferred; and
utor corporations ido joint stock companies    agreed on terus of reference for the cocoa                                                     -at least two of the following 3 enterpriea:
has been approved and shares in the Corpora-   export mnrketing study.                                                                        Mim Timber Company Limited, State
tioms cn now be sold to private tector.                                                                                                       Insurance Corporation of Ghans, and State
Housing Corporation).
3. Mw wteecuslsc PNcy Framterik                                                                                                                                                                   r\a
Maermoeak  wgruim. Afer six yeara of           Agreed on the 1995-97 Policy Framework          Maintained a mncroeconomic policy frame-       Maintained a macroeconomic policy franme-
astatsned improvements in the mfcroeconomic    Paper.                                          work consistent with the objectives of the     work consitent with the objectivcs of the
sitaion. Ghana experienced a lrge fiscal                                                       program.                                       program.
isock due to a 80 percent wage inemase for
civil servants during the run-up to the
elections in 199. There was siunificart
pmgress in rettoring fiscal bhlansce and price
stability after shock; fitcal deficit fell from
4.8 percent of GDP in 1992 to 2.5 percent in
1993 and 0.8 pemcent in 1994. However,
inflatwon has risen so 34 percent in Decenmber
1994 due to monetary expawion and lower
GDP trowth. If the 1995 pogram is inple-
mented, inflation is projected to fall to 23
percent in December 995.
Troda-EreAwse.  RAf Regbmw  A well func-       Maintained the mnrket-based exchange rate
tioning mnrket-determined exchange rate sys-   sysem and a liberal trade regime with no
tem and a liberal trade regime has been estab-  increases in import protection or export
lished, The Government has agreed to under-    taxation.
take the obligation under Article VIm of the
IDF. Both interbattk and forex buretus are
working well with the spread reduced to les s
than 10 percent. 



Policy Matrix
Policy *remacurren  tituation                      Upfront actions                                    Before second tranche                             Before third tranche
PUk E.rpestdkawv Mangew*aI. In the lat             Adopted an action plan for impementing a           (a) Increased duFing fiscal year 1995, by at      (a) Increased during the fiscal year 1996, by
decade, Ghana hba implemented piecemeal but        satisfactory accounting and expenditure            least 10 percent, in real terns based on fiacal   at least 20 percent, in real iersn based on
inportant reforns in public financial manage-      monitoring system as well as a new contract-       year 1994, actual expendisures on both (i) re-    fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both
ment. They included significant improve-           ing system over the Program period,                cutrent non-wage expenditures, and (ii) devel-    (i) recurrent non-wage expenditures, and (ii)
menta in mobilizing rusources, Increasing                                                             opment expenditures for the following sub-        development expenditures for the following
expenditures in critical areas, ens ing that                                                           ectors: (1) basic education, (2) primary         sub-sectors: (I) basic education, (2) primnry
inter-aectoral and intra-sectoral budget elo-                                                         health, and (3) rural infrastructure;             health, and (3) rural infrastructure, and there-
cations are in line with declared priorities, and                                                     (b) Completed the assessment of the contract-     after hba at least maintained such level of
developing the Government's capacity to mocs-                                                         ing system ernployed by the Ministry of           actual expenditures;
itor and mnnage expenditures Te aIanalytic                                                            Roadc and Highweys and the Ministry of            (b) Implemented in the Ministry of Roads
and iunplementation capacities of various units                                                       Works and Housing, and designed a reviaed         and Highways and the Minitary of Works and
of the Minist  of Finance and Economic                                                                contracting sydem, satisfactory to the             Housing the revised contracting system
Planreng were improved, conpared with the                                                             Association, constident with the results of       referred to above;
pre-ERP situation. Ghana's expenditure on                                                             such assessment and the objectives set forth in   (c) Irplemrented the expenditure monitoring
education and health doubled though the latter                                                       the Prgram;                                         sydem referred to above in at least 10 minis-
is still lower then the Sub-Saharan African                                                           (c) Implemented an expenditure monitoring          tries (in addition to the 6 referred to above)
average.                                                                                              system in the Ministries of Finance, Roads        responsible for at leatt 30 percent of alloca-
and Highways, Works and Housing, Educe-           tions in its mos recent annual budget); and              _l
tion, Health, and Information, "tisfactory to     (d) InIplemented the accounting system re-
the Association, meeting the objectivee set       ferred to above in the 6 minidstriec listed
forth in the Prgram; and                          above.
(d) designed an siccourding system, satiafac-
tory to the Association, meeting the objectives
set out in the Progrm for use by the six
mnisidries listed above.



- 28 -
Anmu= 2
Page I of 22
FRM:d4G                                        LIED. 18. JO. '95 14:5    GM
CONFIDENTIAL                                DFFICY OF TIIE PRESI DN
1P.O. BOX 16&7
ACCRA
..........  ..    ..... ......9
APPROVED  PROCEDU7RES  -
DIVESTITURE OF STATE OWNED E RPRIS55
I an directed to confirm to you that am part of
current masor reforms being undertaken to stremline the
State-Owzied Enterprise sector, Cabinet has approved the
attached procedures for the divestiture process.
2.   Z note  that the  son.  Kiziater in  his  letter  of
Development Policy transa±tted to you on November 16, 1994,
thoe esential components of policy ref orns which Ooverument
has adopted towards a more rapid and efficient private
wector growth.
P.A. DANSO
SECRETARY T0 THE CABINET
47    '~  '-     -.   -  _   _
MR. KAZI MATIN,
THE WORLD BANKC,
WASHINGTON D.C.,
V.S .A.



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 22
FRCtM AF4GA                                W lED. 1l. J   '95 14:59   Qe3
GENERAL PROCEDURES
FOR
DIVESTITURE OF SOEs
1



- 30 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 22
FROM: F4dA                                       LED. 1S. JlN. '95 15:00   Cb4
THE DIVESTITURE IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE
SUB-CONTRACT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CONTENTS
1    Acceleration of the Divestiture Prograrnme
2.   Monitoring of the Divestiture Programme
3.   Sub-Contractors Required Capabillties
4.   Register of Qualified Private Sector Firms
5.   Pre-Qualification of Firms for Sub-Contract Work
6.   Evaluation Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Contractors
6.1  Experience
6.2   Resources
6.3  Reputation. Independence and Integrity
6.4   Contacts within the Financial community. Nationally and
Internationally
7.   Submission and Evaluation of Proposals
8.   Evaluation of Proposed Fees
9.   Contracts of Appointment
Appendices.
A    Responsibilities and functions of the Divestiture
Implementation Committee
B    Advertisement for private sector firms
to register for divestiture services
2



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 22
FR - : {IF4CR         fSULED. 1B. JC*. *95  15:00    M05
C     Information required from privet. sector firms
seeking to register for divestiture services
D     Procedures for Sub-contracting to private sector firms
to undertake divestiture work
'E    DIC's interface with privato sector firms contracted
to undertake divestiture work
F     Contract for privote sector firms employed on divestiture work
G     Remuneration of private sector firms employed on divestiture work
3



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 22
RO:AF4CA                  5                       UED. 1E. JQN. '95  15:00   ID06
THE DIVESTITURE IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE
SUB-CONTRACT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
The Policies end Procedures by which the Divestiture Implementation Committee
(DIC) will sub-contract work to the Private Sector will be as follows:
1 -Acceleration of the Divestiture Prorarmme
The Divestiture Implementation Committee is committed to an accoloration of
the Divestiture Programme by meens of increased sub-contracting of work to
the Privato Sector wvhilst monitoring the sub-contracted work to ensure that it is
carried out in accordance with the DIC's Statutory responsibilities and in a fully
effective manner.
It is important that the roles of all involved in the process of divestiture be
clearly defined.
The responsibilities cnd functions of the DIC are described in Appendix A.
The interface between the DIC and Sub-Contractors to undertake divestiture
work is set out in Appendix E.
2.Mon,iorino of the Divestiture Prooramre
Before considering the appointmenT of a sub-contractor to undertake work on
the divestiture of a State Owned Enterprise (SOE) a brief description of the SOE
is required together with agreed Terms of Reference for the specific divestiture
work to be undertaken.
The DIC will sub-contract divestiture work to private firms and monitor the
process, whilst accelerating the Progrrmmne.  Monitoring of toh Divestiture
Programme should be done in conformity with the procedures set out below.
4



- 33 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 22
.-  . JAN. *95  15:01   CZ07
:)"lT /
3.Sub-Contractors reouired CQaabilities
The qualifications required in a firm to which particular divestiture work will bo sub-
contractod must be defined in the Terms of Reference for the Divestiture of the
particular SOE: This will guide the weighting of the evaluation criteria to be used
in the selection of the Sub-Contractor.
4.Reoister of Quslified Private  Sertor Firms
Private sector firms to whom it is appropriate to subcontract work will include
accountants, management consultants, commercial law firms, merchant banks,
investment banks and asset valuer2.
The DIC will advertise, inviting both Ghanaian and International firms to register
their interest and quelifications to undertake Divestiture Work. Applicants must
give ovidence to justify their inclusion on a Register of firms considered suitable for
such work. Sea Appendix B for the content of the Advertiserments.
Advertisements should be placed in three local loading newspapers or business
publications and The Economist. The Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal
(USA, European end Asian) and Business Day (South Africa) giving at least one
month to respond. The informotion in the advertisements should also be forwarded
to proeidentified firms, Chambers of commerce, Embassies and High Commissions
with Ghana.
Appendix C describes the information firms will be required to submit.
International firms should be advised that they should involve local firms.
Correspondingly, local firms should confirm that skills and experience will be
supplemented by internotional firms, if required.
5



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 22
LED. 1S. .JAN. 95 .15:e2   2s
5.Pre-Qualificatiorn of Firms for Sub-ConTract Work
Tho pre-qualification of firms for the Register of Private Sector Firms eligible to
undertake divestiture work will be undertaken in a fully transparent manner. Tho
successiul applicants to ioin the register will be published. It will be mada clear
that membership ot the Register does not indicate that the firm will be invited to
quote for all types of work but only that for which they were pre-qualified.
Tho purpose is to achieve a diverse pool of appropriate private sector resources
that will effectively and efficiently moet the DIC's requirements of quality
subcontractors capable of undertaking the accelerated divestiture programme.
The choice of zub-contractor for a major piece of divestiture work will be made by
an Evaluation Committee, the members of which have hands-on experience in the
field in which they will be making judgements. There will be a core number of
members in this committee, some of whom  will be members of DIC.  The
Committee will evaluate proposals from firms, selected from the Register, who
have been invited to quote for the divestiture work. The Sector Ministry will be
represented on the Committee.
65Evaluation Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Contruetors.
The criteria used by the Committne in pre-qualifying firms for the Register and
subsequently evoluating firms' proposals for divestiture work will seek to match the
skills and experience provided to the needs of the Onterprises being divested.
The criteria may include:
6.1 Exoerienee
Evidence of relevant experience by the individual consultants or executives who
will do the work may, depending on the particular project, include:
cdivestiture of State-Owned Enterprises in Ghana or other Developing
countries;
-     acquisitions and mergers, company financial restructuring and  refnancing,
-     cornpany Stock Exchange flotetions,



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 22
LCjA IED. 1g5 JA-  '  15:02    b09
-     experience in mrnaging the interfaces with Government, Government
Ministries, State-Owned Enterprises, Unions and workforces and other
professional organizations to whom work has to be delegated.
6.2. Resources
-     capability of firm to expand the volume of quality professional resources as
the work may demand;
-     access to experience in other countries of divestiture of companies in similar
product%market areas,
-     for the largest SOEs, ability to bring to bear on their work a full range of
professional skills required i.e. financial analysts, valuers, accountants,
lawyers, venture capitaliss, employment specialists in redundancy
situations, engineers and industry specialists required.
-     t'he submissions should provide CVs of consultants who will bo *rnployed on
the work and records of satisfactory completion of similar work.
Re;uteiion. fndependence and Integrity
Firms should be of sufficient reputation, financial strength, independence and
intergrity for the task as evidenced by a performance bond. the magnitude of which
will be cited in the Letter of Invitation end Tender.
6.4.Conte-ts within the Financial Community, Nationally and Internationally
A key success factor in terms of cost-oflective divestitures, especially of rmajor
companies, will be the ability ot Private Firms to access financing to complete tho
transaction.
7.5ubmission and Evaluation of Proposals
Proposals for work should be submittec to the DIC in two envelopes. The 'Foos
envelope should not be opened until those firms have been selected whose
experience, qualities and the realism of their proposals has commended them.
Proposals should be scored against weighted criteria, deemed to be most
7



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 22
FRC-,:AY4CA                L> IED. IS. JN. '95  15:03    mia
appropriate for the divestiture work in question.
I-Evaluation of Proposed Fees
The Committee of the DIC will establish an approved basis for remuneration of sub-
contractors with fee rates, expense guidelines, success fee criteria etc.as described
in Appendix G. For divestiture work, a significant element of the fee should be
linked to the success of the divestiture.
Collaborations of Local and Foreign Firms of Sub-Contractors will be favoured. The
maximum use of local professionals will have the advantage of doveloping Ghana's
capacity, having worked in collaboration with professionals with International
experience. To ensure that the accelerated divestiture programme, for the major
SOEs. gets off to a good start, it is likely that there will be more use of
International firms as support to local firms.
Economy will not be pursued at the cost of adequate offectivess.
The overall objective is to choose firms who will successfully achieve the
divestitures in a short time frame by the use of experienced and effective
professionals and thereby produce the most cost-eflective result.
9 Contracts ot AD ointrnent
DIC will maintain a Register of pro-qualified sub-contractors to undertake work on
divestitures.
Sub-contractors will be selected from the Register to submit specific proposals for
the work on the divestiture of specific SOEs.
The Procedures for the Appointment sub-contractor. are described in
Appendix D.
Following evaluation ot the proposals, the winning firm will be offered a Contract
of Appointment - see Appendix E - by the DIC for a timed programme of work.
Major Projects will require the employment of several prolessional firms. In all
cases. an individual within 'one firm will be designated as accountable to the DIC



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 10 of 22
FROM:A 4GA                                              LED. 18. JAN. '95  15:03    t2
for the overall coordination, timeliness, cost control and effective achievement of
the divestiture to a pro-set timed programme.
.9p
9



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 11 of 22
FIZom: QF4CA  tt      LIED. 1S.        '95 15:0A   12
AFPPENDIXA
RESPONSIBILITIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
DIVESTITURE IMPLEMINTATION COMMITTEE-
Tho Divestiture of State Interest (Implementation) Law 1993 PNDCL 326 states:
Section 2: The DIC was created as the 'agency of the Government for the
implementation  of  all Government  policies  in  respect of divestiture
programmes.
Section 3 (1): The objective of the Committee is to implement and execute all
Government policies in respect of divestrrure programmes'.
Section 3 (2): The functions of the Committee include to 'plan, monitor,
coordinate and evaluate ell divestiturms", "ensuring consistency in procedures
for divestiture, in particular with regard to valuation, invitation for bids,
negotiation of sales and settlement of account."
10



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 12 of 22
FTMM:AF4GA              IM                    LUED. 18. JAN. '95 15:0    r3
Ocry - -
APPENDIX 8
DIVESTITURE OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
ADVERTISEMENT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR FIRMS
TO REGISTER FOR DIVESTITURE SERVICES
The Advertisement will contain:
-    brief background information on Ghaneas Divestiture Programme;
* standard contract;
* divestiture procedures;
* outsourcing proc-dures.
A description of the role and responsibilities of the DIC:
The progress made to date and plans for the future divestiture pvgw¶riu
The types of firms that the DIC expects to respond;
The nature of the Information that must be provided;
The requirement to pay US$100 if a foreign firm or C50,000 if a local
firm;
The name. address, telophone and facsimile numbers of the addressee:
The date by which applications must be received;
How and when applicants will be notified of the outcome of their
application.



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 13 of 22
WED. 8 JA. - '9 5 15:95   qb1d
FIMM AF4GA                                         E       J    s            ^
APPENDIX C
DIVESTITURE OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
iNFoRMATION RgQUIRED FROM PRIVATE SECTQR FIRMS
SIFFKING TO BEGISTER FOR DIVESTITURF SERVICES
To ensure appropriate informarion is available to evaluate and pro-qualify a
sufficient number and quality of local end International firms for the DIC
Register, applicants will be required to submit the following information:
-         The name of firm, contact person, address, telephone and facsimile
numbers;
-    The date of the firm's formation or incorporation, the addross of its
registered office and certificate of incorporation, if relevant;
A list of the firm's directors or parners;
'The names and addressas of the firm's bankers and auditors;
The firm's fee income for the last three years;
A statement of the firm's capabilities;
A statement of relevant experience during the Iast three years, stating
the major assignments, clients, dates, man-months of work undertaken and
fees;
The current number of permanent, professional staff, specifying the CVs
of staff who would be engaged on divestiture work and, where relevant,
information on how to compensate for lack of experience in divestiture;
The working relationships, actual or planned, wIth loctl or internationSl firms.
12



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 14 of 22
UD. le. JAN. *ss 15:85   t1S
DIVESTITURF OF STATE OWNED ENTERPtRISES
PROCEDU)RES FOR SUB-CONTRACTINGZ TO) PgIVATE FIgMs
TO UNDERTAKE DIVESTITURE WORK
DIC sub.committeo on sub-contracting will do the following:
1.   Dofinn Divestiture Assignmont(s)
2.   Prepare Terms of Reference and letter of invitation.
v objectives, responsibilities and services required;
Iscope, timing and budget;
- define evaluation criteria and their weighting;
- prepare draft invitation ltter
3.   Obtain clearance of Terms of Reference and Letter of Invitation to   11
from DIC.
4.   Issue Letter of Invitation and TOR to Pro-qualified firm
5.   Evaluate Proposals
Evaluate Committee:
- evaluates quality of proposal;
- evaluates match of criteria with capability;
- selects and ranks Proposals, matching criteria on qualitative grounds:
- selects winning tender;
- reports to DIC.
6.   Negotiate and sign contact with Winning Bidder.
13



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 15 of 22
GED  16, JN. '95 15:06   KD16
;Af \ @{l
APPENDIX E
DIC'S INTERFACE WITH PRIVATE SEC;TOR FIRMS
CONTRACTED TO UNDERTAKE DIVESTITURE WORK
1    Receipt by DIC of Directive to Divest when SEC hands over all prepared
materials on SOEs.
2.   Method of Divestiture approved by DIC.
3.   Divestiture Imnplementation Committee approves winners selected by sub-
contractors.
4.   Transfer To DIC of non-returnable Commitment Payment- 10% of Offer
Price and Bank Guorantee obtained for any deterred payments - by private
sub-contractor.
5.   Preparation of Sale Agreement in conjunction with DIC.
6.   Handover of Company by DIC in exchonge for agreed payment.
7.   Settling of liabilities by DIC.
S.   Roceipt of any deferred payment(s) by DIC.
14



- 43 -
Anna 2
Page 16 of 22
FRO:AF4GR  e                       .  1~~~~~~~~~s, JAN. '95 15:0   2b17
APPENDIX f
DIVESTUJRFE OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
CONTRACT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR FIRMS
EMPLOYED ON DIVESTITURE WORK
Draft snandard contract for Sub-contractors to private firms for undertaking
divestiture work.



- 44 -
Annex 2
Page 17 of 22
FR1m: $4F4GQ                                      LED . JaN .  s  5    a      l
APPENDIX G
DIVESTITURE OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
REMUNERATION OF PRIVATE SECTOR FIRMS
EMPLOYED ON DIVESTITURE WORK
Selection and remuneration of Private Sector Firms for divostiture work will be
delegated to a sub-committee of The DIC. It will regularly report on contracts
placed and its work will be audited.
Three key criteria by which sub-contracted divestiture work will be judged are
the sale price achieved, adherence to procedures, and the timeless of the
divestiture.
A system of performance-based incentives and sanctions taking into account
the above criteria should be incorporated in the remuneration of firrns to whom
divestiture work is sub-contracted.
The total remuneration, to be paio out of the divestiture proceeds, should
include a success fee and penalty and may include a fixed fee and reimbursable
expenses.
The fixed fee may be payable as a nominal engagement fee on commencement
and the balance on completion of the assignment. Where there are deferred
payments, a proportional amount of the fee will be deferred and contingent on
eventual receipt.
The success fee or penalty charge wilJ be added or subtraoted from the balance
of the fixed fee. The amount of the success fees and penalty will be agreed, in
advance, with the criteria by which It will be calculated, most of which will bo
quantitative, such as price and timeless and adherence to procedures.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 18 of 22
WEJD. 1S. JZN. 'ES  15:e7    M19
F-RC): AF4GQ 
The success fee payable or penalty deducted should be geared to the type,
difficulty, completion within an agreed timetable and discounted present value of
the net divestiture proceeds in excess of a reserve price. Maximum fees would be
related to the scale of the divestiture, but on a decreasing percentage basis.
Penalties, where applicable would normally be related to delay in completion of the
divestiture beyond a time limit or failure to complete the divestiture. The penalty
will be related to the performance bond.
Reimbursable expenses, where applicable, shall include actual transport and
accommodation costs necessarily incurred on out-of-town assignrnents, a per diem
allowance for days away from home and roasonabls out-of-pocket expenses.
Costs of work sub-contracted will be charged at cost.
Any commisxinn or fee *ernod in the .uurae of the divestiture, such as fees for
arranging finance, must be declared and will be taken into account in the
agreement of the fee structure.
If the divestituro is not completed because of Government's failure to approve the
sale, the sub-contractor will be deemed to have completed the assigment.



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 19 of 22
LJaD. 16. JsN. s5 r157   20
-ROMl:PF4GA
PROCEDURES FOR DIVESTITURE
OF SOEsNRBY
PRIVATE -SUB-CON-TRACTORS



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 20 of 22
UED . 16. JAN . '95 1S: 08    MZ1
FROrM: AF4GA 
1.    Selection of enterprises and decision on modalti-s are the responsibilities of
the Government through SEC. the Ministry of Finance and Economic Panning, the
Committee of DIC. and the Cabinet.
2.    Valuation will be undertaken by independent reputable assessors end in advance
of outsourcing Implementation to private firms.
3.    Non-price terms and pro-established evaluadon criteria. The standard non-price
terms are: (a) proof of financing ability so as to ensure full payment within a short
and pre-specified time after signing the purchase agreement; and (b) statement of
payment terms and currency.
DIC shall develop 6tandard evaluation criteria to be refined by the private
implementing firm for each individual transaction, and the evaluation of the non-price
terms should result in either acceptance or rejection of bids without ranking based on
information in the first envelope, if commitments to additional investments are
important to the Government, investmeni will be evaluated at not present value in
combination with price bid according to pre-specified SOE specific formula. All of the
above information will be Included in the tender documents available to bidders.
4.    Adverising requirements and active search to identify and motivate buyers are
the responsibilities of the private implementing firm, Le.. the sub-contractors, but the
minimum required in torms of advertisement for each modality will be specified in the
contract. At a minImum, private placement through competitive tender should be
advertised in the two leoding newspapers three times in three consecutive weeks.
Internationally interesting SOEs should be advertised in at least two of the Financial
Times, The Economist. The Wall Street Journal, The Asian Will Street Journal, and
in industry publications where appropriate. Public auction should be advertised at least
locally as described above. The advertising requirements that the sub-contractor has
to fill will be agreed between DIC and the sub-contractor and the costs related to such



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 21 of 22
WED .1S9, JN. ' 95  15:08     22
FROM: AF4GIP             Z
advertising would be directly ro-imbursoble by the Government.
5.   Market value-non-price negotiations with highest bid only - two envelope bids.
The Government will apply market valuation in the sense that the acceptable market
price is the highest price obtained on the basis of a bidding process involving three or
more bidders, but exceeds a reservation price. Bids for private placement through
competitiv, tender will consist of two envelopes; tho outer envelope contains the non-
price terms only as pre-qualificatlon for the second round. The winning bid is decided
by the highost bid in the second round (prico, or where applicable, the highest
combination of price and investment according to the pro-set formula).  The
implementing private firm will then negotiate only with the highest bidder and such
negostrions will relate only to the buyers rehabilitation and Investment plans, since all
other non-price terms will be pra-specified In the bidding documents.
6.   Ratification Process. If successful, the implementing private firm recommends
the winner to DIC for nomination. DIC approves the process, nominates winner and
submits nomination to the Govornment for ratificatlon. If the Government is unable
to ratify the winner, the private firm and the winner will be notified. Upon receipt of
Government's ratification, DIC will notify the private firm within three days, and the
private firm concludes the paperwork and the deal (with DIC signing on behalf of the
Government). The private firm should assume ratification and finalize the transaction
it it has not received ratification or rejection within 31 days after recommendation to
DIC.
7.   Payment Terms. The objective, ideally, is to receive full payment at time of
signing of contract, but the implementing privete firm can allow for deferred payments
where it is backed by a Bank-guarantee. In any case, a divestiture will be deemed as
completed when at least 50% payment has been made and the operations of the SOE
has been transferred to the private buyer.
8.   Post-bid documentation. The private firm will record advertisements, tender



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 22 of 22
WED. 18. JAN. '95  15:0S    M23
documents and sales memorandum, registration of Interest, bids received, minutes
from evaluation and recommendation with supporting documents, formal ratification
from the Government and final sales contract. DIC will In addition record the
outsourcing procedures loading to the appointment of the private firm including
valuation and other key steps fn preparation by DIC.



Overall schedule for Implementafion of small-medium SOE divesfiture                                                                                                            Prennary
Number of so
Negotitions Effectfveness                                                      2nd tranche                                                           3rd trcnche
Mm-"  Af-96  M-N 1AnbS ".9i5 Aug-96 Sep-95 OctF46 No,95 Dc-95 Jvi-9  Feb-%   Mr-%  AP-%  My-%  An9   Ak96 Aug-96 S9  OCt4-6 NoV-96 060-96 Jt-7  F.b7
-2    -1      0       1     2     3     4     5      6     7     a      9      10    11    12    13    14    15   16    17    18    19    20    21
DBf targets                                                                     _                   _ |
MecdSi                    2                                    ._  _                               anoiw 6 (d 18)                                                       oftAer6 (14 bI i)
Snma                      6                                                                       ane _oUw 11(17 loki)                                               aftu 17 134 bed)
Outsourclng targets                                      =           _                  _   =                                                                         1====T
Medksn                        ___                                M- 1aor10 20 IOd)                                                                                   anoW0 10 (30 bkO
smog                         r          =       _     _     _    15    _       _     _      _20              I  _3 _ok_)                                             anolhwr IS(dS4   i
GOG Aclivilles
kIenttty carodkStes          114                   =     =      =     =     =     =                                        
IDentif prcedidues           lid  _ ___  ___                   __-_  __   __                  __   ___           ___   =_  __   __   ___
DIestItce procedives                               __                                                                                         _.
Lwnanb                        I _ _ __ _    
Outsouce   dhrestitue  _  __ .__ __ __ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________                 _______   _________________ __________________
Ibsercnded                   ted                                                                                                                                                                Lun
Presudtythns == ==== == =~~_====_ =__   =-
Outsoxclkng proced1ures                          ___
edlm conetd S_                         __ _c 10                                        0    2   _
Oeveipptocedi,es         _         _          ____         __0_
Outsouirce dIeltvt.te
S   by d                     _.Coe_. _eted          _    _
I tnotetxori                 __                 Complteted
Vakiaflmn of SOEs
M edlum  sized0 SE      2__                                   _       10       _                        .,    10  __    ==_
15         __     _ _   10         _ _            _  _1                      _
Award conlacts                                       __          __-                        _ 
*mn  m                    *_                          _    __    1    _  _   _     10    __      _ _10
*Kd  ~     ~       ~       __             ____          5                 I_  _     10   I_  _     10   I__    _   10   _
ongoing soles/pdvote flrms            __ ___                                          _                  _                    _ _
Medium sized SOEs                  __ _                   __              *     0        10   ~20   20   0   20   -        - 20    02        20    20    W       10    10  10        10
Smalln SOEs                       lod                                       15    15   125    25    25n         25    20    20    20   -20    20 bd20.th  10   .10c    1 0
Sales by DIC
Mediumn sized SOEs            2                                                                                  _                            _                                    3 (5)
_O__
SmcalSOEs                     6/22/Y5)e
note: of totd 14 med~I annd 34uTX9to bed dvsted - DtCwit "rement 20:2 medkwni 6 vri by negott3alkns nd expecled another I2SOEs by 3idtranche 
0   i
wIson/cNents/ghan0/feb-95/UIrifl3                                                                                                                                         3/22/95



Implementation - Example of aggregate resource need and availability
ff we
Aggregate resource need                                                                                                 Aggregate resource vovlNabNly
ResourenedOE
6 DIC weeks
3 beg  councel weeks                                                              PRIVATE FIRMS
J14 transactIos                                                                                          - Accounting firns:
Ito be tdicized    _32 firm weeks                                                                         5 Intl (Blg 6)=266 staff
(of which -75 high quaity)
3 valuator weeks      =DIC 246 weeks                                               - Law fbns - 100-200 bwyers
46 medm  sed                                      ._   =Legd councel 123 weeks                                                 - Merchant banks
viable SOEs                                6 DIC weeks            =Flrm 1204 weeks                                              5 banks wlth adequate skils
(of which 5 by DIC)                                               =Valuator 123 weeks                                            - 3-7 officers each (T8D)
3 egal councel weeks
27 SOEs to be
offered to sde        _ 28 flrm weeks                                 DIC 7.2 stf yea             DhC currently 5.25 professlond sta
(3.6 per progrom year)               Program need <70%
3 vauator weeks                              Legd councel 3.4 years       Legd advce 100-200 prdesslonal
(-2.5 first program year)            Program need = 2-4%
Frnn 34 stall ym            FIms -100 quafed professionals 
(17 per program year)                Program need <20%
Resou'ce need/SOE                           Valuabr 3.4 sdd yeas         Vduaors no consraint
1 DIC week                                   (3.4 first program year)              N.A.
_20 ttough sunset       4 firm weeks
auction rocess                                                                                           DIC
0 valuator week       =DIC 78 weeks                                                 CuNrently 1.25 legal officers
64     SOEm   xLg for_l                                                                                                          2 prtvatizatlon officers
quick dvedkture                            2 DIC weeks            =Firm 312 weeks                                               the Executive Secretary
(of which 15 by DIC)                                               falulor 29 weeks                                             I fnancId officer
29 twough sImplifed     I legdl councel week
PFlVatn  ocess                                                                                           VALUATORS
(assume 25% effort    8 firm weeks                                                                         No constraint: Locad and Intl
of process for medkum)                                                                                      ccts assessors surveyors
1 valuator week
nobe: prpgrrm pedod Ssptember 1994 - May 1996 - 20 months      note: hin adHon DIC has selected to knplernent some 20 dvestfh.es
staff weeks per yec' - 4& A nuring 2 medux and 8 srrnX          uing Its own stoff. wh  Is ely to coHfflute a constraint on
has been dvested by  mne o progrnm ception                       resouces availoable to outsourcing to prvate firms
wbonjcg    rrghanoW19%TM8NG2.XLS                                                                                                          3/23/95            W



- 52 -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aK
§o T1                                      - 
.2te   1                        T |        t; 
'U§                            T      iI'II0L
*~   $    IX 1                 1     Q111=v        



Annex 5
53       -                                 Page 1 of 11
In ¢z1 er tep lb.                              "    g                  IlltilSi IY  OF FIIIAlICE I
t.ite esho bf be eI, iev.                                                ECOIIOMlC  PLAIMIMIIG
_.~~bC? e,d .Infe *1 Ii l; tP.O. BOX M1.40
Vutrnc uj.                                                                        ACCRA
reuf n4lN..eCCiS
March 24, 1995
a. e-UULIC or GILV4A
Mr. Sven Sandstrom
Acting President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Sandstrom:
Re: PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSAC)
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The Government of Ghana desires to promote the private sector more aggressively
than before during the next phase of adjustment and would like to seek your support. For
that purpose, we have already adopted a two-year programme of me_ures for private sector
adjustment and plan to adopt additional meuures in the near future. The current pmne
not only envisages implementation of specific measur  but also iniation of a procss to build
consensus in the country on the additional measures that are more difficult politically. By this
letter, the Government requests the International Development Associadon to provide
adjustment credit in support of the current programme.
2.    To promote the private sector more aggressively in the next phase of adjustnt, the
Government intends to consolidae and sustain macr-economic sability, accelerate
privatization, improve management of public expenditure (including implementation of public
investment programme), restructure public service to build capacity, continue finial sector
reforms to increase competition, liberalize the cocoa marketing system further, and invest in
physical infrastrucure and human capital. We are aware that this is an ambitious agenda and
the current programnme, for which we seek the adjustment credit, covers a part of that agenda.
However, we remain strongly committed to implementing the measures cited above to
promote rapid growth of the private sector.
3.    We have carried out a sustained adjusment proces since 1983. As a result, the
private sector operates under a transparent ad relatively liberal policy regime in Ghana.
Though much has also been accomplished, we ae aware that more needs to be done to
promote private sector growth, which is key to sustained rapid growth of the economy.
4.    We have libealized the policy framework qWute comprehensively. We have reformed
the trade and exchange rate system ad the domestic regulatory regime. There is now a
three-tier import-duty structure of 0, 10, and 25 percent with a uniform special import tax of



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 11
10 percent. We have rationalized the tax regime and lowered the corporate tax rate to
35 percent. Price controls have been eliminated. We have removed controls on the
marketing of agri&ltural inputs. The financial sector has also been reformed: credit controls
have been elimimated, interest rates have been liberalized, banks have been restructured, and
divestiture of banks is under imnplementation.
5.    Cocobod has been restructured and down-sized and six private firms are participating
in domestic marketing of cocoa. We are studying ways of strengthening and then extending
that participation to cocoa exports.
6.    Our two-pronged reforn strategy for the state-owned enterprise (SOE) sector has
sought to improve the efficiency of SOEs through perfornance contracts and to reduce the
size of the SOE sector through divestiture or liquidation. The efficiency of SOEs hu
improved, though not as much as expected. We have also divested 64 SOEs between 1988
and 1993. Of these, 30 were privatized and 34 were liquidated. In addition, for another 16
SOEs sales contracts were signed but they could not be transferred because the buyers failed
to make the payment. Of the 260 majority-owned SOEs at the beginning of 1988, 196 remain
accounting for a substantial part of formal employment and of manufacturing output. Thus,
more needs to be done to reduce the dominance of SOEs.
7.    We have sustained strong fiscal and macro-economic performance untl 1992. In that
year, large wage increases awarded to the civil service to secure a smooth transition to elected
govermnent compounded by equally large shortfall in foreign inflows, generated a fiscal
deficit of nearly 5 percent of GDP. We were ambitious in trying to restore fiscal balance in
1993. In the event we achieved a fiscal deficit turnaround of 2.5 percent of GDP, which we
believe was a considerable achievement. Our real GDP growth in 1993 exceeded projections.
8.    Though real GDP growth has averaged around 5 percent per annun during the decade
since 1993-after an earlier decade of negative growth rates-more rapid growth is our goal.
Private investmnent has remained low. However, we succeeded in raising private investment
significantly until 1991, doubling between 1986 and 1991. Total exports more than doubled
during the same period. Non-traditional exports grew faster, though from a smaller base, and
constitute around 6 percent of total exports. Recent export orders and new invetment in
export production suggest much stronger growth in the coming years.
Recent Developents
9.    In recnt months we have implemented a series of measures that has improved the
climate for private savings and investment further. The intense public-private sector dialogue,
the recent privatization as well as new legislation and measures are already generating
positive responses from the business community, both inside and outside Ghana.
10.   To promote public-private sector dialogue and consultations, we initiated a Private
Sector Advisory Group in 1991 with a handful of private sector leaders. That experience has
now led to a very active Private Sector Round Table, comprising of a broader spectrum of
Ghanaian entrepreneurs and senior Government officials, which meets frequently to discuss
issues of concern to the private sector. In fact, the Round Table has produced a Report,
recommending measures that are required to promote a more vigorous private investment



- 55-        -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 11
response. We have used those recommendations to develop our current private sector
adjustment programme, which will be an irportant basis for private sector policies during the
next phase of adjaittment.
11. We have just approved a highly liberal investmnent Act-more liberal than most
developing countries-that permits all investors to invest without requliring prior approval, as
long as they satisfy the criteria laid out in the Act. We also recently approved the Statutory
Corporations Act, allowing conversion of statutory corporations into companies with saleable
shares, which would facilitate privatization of such corporations. The Government has also
accepted its obligations under Article VIH of the IMF's Articles of Agreement.
12. The recent sales of government shares in highly profitable companies like Ashanti
Goldfields and in 7 minority-owned comnpanies through public offering marks another
threshold in our support for the private sector. The success of those shares offerings-strong
participation of both foreign and Ghanaian private sector, including farmers, workers, and
civil servants-confirms the rising confidence in Ghana and in our policies. The increasingly
positive image of Ghana as a place to do business is also evident from investments in Ghana
by foreign firms in mining and in non-traditional export production, as well as export orders
from large foreign retailers.
The Private Sector Adjustment Progrmme
13.   The Govermnent has adopted a two-year programme of measures aimed at promoting
more rapid private sector growth. This programme consists of (a) implementation of specific
measures over the next two years, and (b) initiation of a process to develop consensus in the
country on measures to be implemented later. Measures to be implemented relate to
sustaining macro-economic stability, accelerating divestiture of SOEs and improving
management and poverty-orientation of public expenditures. The process to be initiated for
developing consensus on possible future measures relate to public service restructuring and
liberalizadon of cocoa export markeedng.
14.   Though we have undertaken significant fiscal adjustment over 1993 and 1994, lower
growth and higher monetary expansion generated renewed inflationary pressures. Real GDP
grew by only 3.8 percent as compared to the budget target of 5 percent because of the
sluggish performance of both agricultural and industrial sectors. Agricultural sector
performance was undermined by unfavorable rainfall pattern, by floods before the harvest
season and by ethnic conflict in the Northern Region. The fiscal deficit (narrow) has been
reduced substantially during this period. If all divestiture receipts are included, Ghana had a
fiscal surplus in 1994. However, implementation of monetary policy was undermined by
arrears on oil-import-related credits incurred by Ghana National Petroleum Company (GNPC)
to the Bank of Ghana. As a result money supply grew by 46 percent instead of the budget
target of 5 percent. '
15.   The Government's medium-term objective is to generate the investment necessary to
raise real GDP growth to 5.5 percent in 1997 and to attain an inflation rate not exceeding 5
percent. For this purpose the 1995 budget seeks to build on the fiscal adjusment achieved
over the last two years. The budget seeks to attain a growth rate of 5 percent, a fisca surplus
of 1.2 percent of GDP, an external current account deficit (including transfers) of 3.4 percent



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 11
of GDP and a money supply growth of 8 percent during 1995. Nevertheless, inflation is
unlikely to fall below 23 percent by December 1995. It is expected to fall further to 8
percent by Decen=[er 1996 and to average 5 percent in 1997. Fiscal surplus and the external
current account deficit is targeted not to exceed 1.6 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively,
under our medium-term programme. Monetary growth is expected to stabilize at around S
percent a year.
16.   Accelerated Divestture. Our three-tier programme of accelerated divestiture
emphasizes a more transparent set of procedures for divestiture fully disseminated to the
public, the use of private firms to implement privatization on behalf of the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC) and the Government, the use of procedures by DIC which
are the same as those for private implementing firms, and greater participation of all
Ghanaians. The goal is to sell or liquidate a larger number of SOEs in a shorter period,
supported by clear guidelines and a public relations campaign to signal stronger Government
commitment to the private sector.
17.   The Government has been carrying out a divestiture programme since 1988. Under
the programme, we have sought various ways of harnessing the drive and energy of the
private sector to manage enterprises that was owned by the state. Though most of the
divestiture carried out so far has involved either liquidation (i.e., sale of all assets of the
enterprise followed by dissolution of the enterprise) or sale of majority ownership of SOEs
through the stock market or through private placement, we have also divested shares by
selling Govermnent minority ownership to private sector with a management contract, and
leased enterprises to private firms for their management.
18.   While we shall continue to adopt all possible methods for involving the private sector
in running our SOEs, the divestiture programme supported by the proposed IDA credit will
focus on either liquidation of the enterprise (defined as termination of the enterprise and the
transfer of all its assets) or privatization. The latter will involve either (a) sale of 51 percent
shares of the enterprise to private sector party or parties provided the largest single private
sector purchaser in such enterprise exceeds the aggregate shareholding of public sector entities
in such enterprise, or (b) sale of 75 percent shares of the enterprise to private sector parties.
19.   To implement divestiture, private fims-generally merchant banks, consulting
companies, and legal or auditing firms, and stock brokerage houses-will sub-contract to DIC
and the Goverment through competidve bidding except those where shares are sold to
existing private sharholders. The responsibility of the private implementing firms would
include developing the market strategy, advertising sales, private placement, or public
auction, floatng the public offering in the stock exchange, selecting the core buyer and finally
executing sale after the Government's approval of the selected buyer. The valuation of the
SOEs, to determine the rervation price, will also be outsourced, but the firms doing the
valuation will not participate in the implementation contracts, and the firms implementing
divestiture will not provide financing for the sale of SOEs.
20.   The privatization of 46 pre-screened medium-sized liftle SOEs is the heart of this
three-tier divestiture programme. The other tiers consist of 64 small SOEs and four
strategic/large SOEs selected for pre-privatization preparation. They are telecommunication
operations of Ghana Posts and Telecom, State Insurance Corporation, State Housing



- 57 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 11
Corporation, and Mim Timber (see attached list). The goal is to liquidate or divest 48 small
and medium SOEs (e.g., at least medium-sized SOEs) and offer Ghana Telecommunications
and two of the thYte other strategic SOEs for sale over the programme period. As part of the
accelerated Privatization Programme, the Government has already sold 10 majority-owned
SOEs and plans to sell or liquidate (a) another 14 majority-owned SOEs including at least 4
medium-sized enterprises by April 1996, and (b) another 24 SOEs including at least 10
medium-sized SOEs by March 1997.
21.   For the medium-sized tier of majority-owned viable or potentially viable SOEs, where
the private firms will implement privatization under contract to DIC and the Government, the
following changes in procedure are envisaged:
-     award, through bids, the pre-selected small and medium-sized SOEs to pre-
qualified private firms, i.e., private merchant banks and
legal/consulting/auditing firms to implement their privatization, under clearly
defined procedures;
-     private firms so contracted will follow competitive bidding procedures
consistent with international norms as described in the General Procedures for
Divestiture as approved by the Cabinet and disseminated to the public;
-     negotiations will be conducted by the sub-contracted private firm gonl with the
highest bidder; such negotiation will relate ol to the buyers rehabilitation
and investment plans, since all other non-price terms will be pre-specified in
the bidding documents; and
- bidders will be required to provide a fiancing guarantee and a payment plan
with their bids so as to ensure full payment within three months after signing
the purchase agreement unless an acceptable guanteed payment arrangement
is made.
22.   For the first tier of small SOEs, we are proposing the adoption of a fast-track auction
system to be used by the private implementing fuims. The fast-track system will have
automatic "sunset provisions' (i.e., if a small SOE cannot be sold in an auction as a single
entity within a short but specified period, it will automatically move into an auction for
individual assets, and failing that it will be shut down. In view of the minor impact of these
smaUl SOEs, both in terms of revenue and employment effects, the DIC Secretariat will be the
final approving authority for the winning bid in auction sale of small SOEs.
23.   The success of this accelerated divestiture programme depends critically on the
selection of viabl SOEs and on the adoption of a simplified and streamlined set of bitding
and evaluation proceares approved by the Cabinet. The Government has screened and
selected the 110 small and the medium-sized SOEs and approved the procedures. The DIC
will be the Government's agent for implementing their divestiture. The Government
recognizes that the DIC will be able to divest faster than before if it does not direcdy
implement divestiture but instead oversees and coordinates a larger liquidation and
privatization programme by contracting out to pre-ualified private firms (agents of DIC) the
actual implementation of divestiture.



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 11
24.   The following steps are expected to be followed in privatizing an SOE under the
above procdumres:
-     a register of acceptable private firms will be pre-qualified on the basis of
clearly specified criteria;
-     DIC Secretariat will prepare the SOEs in terms of outsourcing valuation,
estimating end-of-service benefits (ESBa) (including severance), and clarifying
legal title;
-     the pre-qualified firms would then be invited to bid competitively to obtain the
right to implerent privatization to individual lots of SOEs on the basis of pre-
specified terms and DIC would select the winning bid and award contracts;
-     the SOEs would then have to be prepared, assessed, and the best salestrategy
devised by private implementing firms;
-     the private firms would then solicit offers according to agreed tender
procedures and select winning bid;
the selected bid and the evaluation of the bid would then be sent to DIC and
the Government for approval; and
once approval is granted, the private firm completes the paperwork and
concludes the deal according to the terms of the tender.
25.   In order to divest 38 SOEs in less than 2 years, DIC expects to complete valuation of
25 medium-sized and 40 small SOEs and award contracts to pre-qualified private fimis for 20
medium and 35 small SOEs within the first 10 months and another 10 medium and 10 small
in the next 10 months.
26.   The four strategic enterprises cited above will undergo pre-privatization preparation
including commercia and financial restructuring if necessary, such that by the end of the
programme period, Ghana Telecommunications and two of the other three strategic SOEs
have been offered for sale to the private sector. To offer the strategic SOEs for sale, the
Goverment will bave (a) curied out a valuation of the enterprise, (b) prepared a prospectus
or information memorandum for the enterprise, and (c) solicited offers for the sale of such
enterprise eitder directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers.
27.   The Government through the Ministry of Transport and Commnications hs
conducted everal workshops involving all major stakeholders to develop a progmmme for
harnessing the private sector to expand the telecommunications services in a major way.
Under the programe, the Government plans to seek substantial private participation in the
telecom operations of the state-owned Ghana Posts and Telecom Corporation (P&T) over the
next year and a half. To offer telecom pat of Ghana P&T for sale, the Government plans to
enact a utisfactory legislative framework for regulating private puticipation in the sector,
create a new company to take over the telecom operations of P&T, finalize the separation of
Telecom from Post in Ghana P&T, and complete drafting of the licensing agreements with



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 11
private firms (to complement the regulatory framework) by July 1995. The auditing and the
financial restructuring of the new company, Ghana Telecommunications, is expected to be
completed by Jamly 1996. The contracting of private financial advisor to prepare and
market Ghana Telecommunications will be done soon thereafter and the financial advisor is
expected to offer it for sale by November 1996. The above process will be financially
supported through PHRD grant, project preparation facility, and later through an IDA
technical assistance credit, all of which is under preparation.
28.   With respect to the other three strategic SOEs, the Government expects to offer two
of them for sale over the next year and a half period. Of these, the marketing strategy for
Mim Timber is already under consideration of its Board and a private financial advisor is
expected to be contracted by June 1995.
29.   We have already drafted and discussed the terms of reference for the study on
external marketing of cocoa and we expect to initiate the study by early May 1995. The
study will attempt to (a) assess the current state of the cocoa export marketing arrangements
n Ghana, (b) examine the experience with export marketing systems in other cocoa producing
countries, especially those that have liberalized export marketing arrangements, and (c) to lay
out the options for Ghana. The study will be carried out by consultants and overseen by the
task force. We plan to have a final draft by September 1995, and to develop the
recommendations by November 1995.
30.   Public Expenditure Management. Well planned and executed development and
recurrent public expenditure programmes will achieve allocated efficiency and help to ensure
that macro-economic balance is attained throughout the fiscal year in an efficient manner.
The Goverment has already introduced measures that will help attin these objectives. For
example, a prelininary broad-based budget draft has been prepared to capture all expendiures
and revenues. There is also a Public Finance Committee, made up of the Ministry of
Finance, the Bank of Ghana, and the Controller and Accountant General, that meets to review
trends and discuss variations between actual figures and budgetary provisions. The
Commnittee could potentially serve as an carly warning system. In spite of its limitations, the
three-year rolling Public Invetment Programme (PIP) has helped the Government in its
endeavor to improve the allocation of resources for increasing the country's physical capital
stock. For the recurrent budget, the Integrated Personnel/Payroll Database (IPPD) has
enabled us to ascertain the nature and control the level of expenditure on personnel
emoluments.
31.   Despite these efforts, more remains to be done. The development budget needs to be
rationalized and the number of projects reassessed and reduced. The 1995 development
budget has already carried out this exercise by reducing the number of wholly Government-
financed projects. The development budget requires stramliing in terms of the provision of
rnatcing funds for donor-supported projects. The 1995 budget has provided explicit
allocations of matching funds for each project and we shall make all efforts to ensure that the
disbursements of matching funs are in line with those allocations. To the extent that the
development budget contributes to the provision of a significant part of the economy's
investment per year, its rationalization should improve the overall efficiency and growth of
the economy, and the performance of the private sector in particular. Other things being
equal, increasing the public's awareness and information about the quality and targets of the



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 11
public investment programme will support the private sector's own programming of
investment requirements and complementarities with public investment. On the other hand,
better planning of the recurrent budget along with the introduction of variance analysis to
assess the departure of actual from budget allocations, will give the Government an early
indication of potential disruptions and facilitate quick corrective actions.
32.   Current Progrmme. The programrne for improving public expenditure mmnagement
is based on the diagnosis of problems articulated in the 1993 Public Expenditure Review,
prepared by the Government for the first time. This review identified key problems in the
management and the processes of budget preparation, of budget implementation and of
expenditure monitoring and accounting. Some of the improvements in budget preparation,
especially in terms of greater involvement of sector ministries has been introduced in the
1995 budget preparation exercise. We have also developed and adopted a medium-term
Public Financial Management Reform Programme (PFMRP) aimed at achieving various goals,
including the following:
-      achieving macro-economic balance;
-      ensuring ownership of all Ministries, Departments, and Agencies(MDAs) in
budget preparation, execution, and evaluation processes;
-      generating timely, reliable and detailed information on actual expendimres
(both payments and commitments);
-      ensuring that actual intra- and inter-sectoral expenditures are in line with
budgetary allocations, including poverty-focussed expenditures; and
-      facilitating private participation in the provision of public services.
33.   We intend to make some effort to ensure that MDAs do not see themselves as
spenders only, not responsible and accountable for the formulation and efficient execution of
their budgets. Without such ownership, efficient control of expenditures is difficult. MDAs
will have more ownership if they:
-      have an appreciation of the Govermment's overall fiscal strategy, see that it is
well thought out and reflective of serious expenditure pressures, as well as
programme needs;
-      have had the time to prepare, and an opportunity to present, their case for
their budget allocation, which was more the case in 1995;
-      are made responsible and accountable for prudent and transparent use of the
funds and programme accomplishment; and
-      feel that the financial managernent laws, regulations, and policies are
supportive of programme delivery.



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 11
34.   To improve development budgeting and implementation, we will introduce new
project planning, prioritizing, and tracking system, review of the continuing need or priority
of uncommitted pThjects, audit contract/project performance on a selective basis, and
imnplement a revised contracting and control system.
35.   For this purpose, the Government will establish a Project Team led by the Ministry of
Finance with participation by representatives of key rninistries like the Ministry of Roads and
Highways, Education, Health, Local Government, and OHCS to oversee the implementation
of the above cited medium-term reform programnme.
36.   To achieve the above objectives, the current programme envisages measures that are
implementable over the two-year period, to be supported by the proposed adjustment credit
and planned technical assistance credit. These relate to budgeting and the disbursement of
natching funds, revising the multi-year contracting system with the private sector for
executing the development budget, implementing the expenditure tracking and monitoring
system using a common agreed Chart of Accounts across all Ministries, Departments and
Agencies (MDAs) and implementing a comprehensive accounting system including regular
internal auditing.
37.   Expenditure Monitoring System. Improvements in expenditure tracking and
monitoring are essential for macroeconomic balance and for microeconomic efficiency in
spending. It can also provide a more effective early warning system to assist in avoiding the
need for expenditure freezes and the resulting reduction of funds for recurrent expenditure on
goods. Though a pilot scheme is in operation in three ministries, it needs to be strengthened
and expanded in several ways in the same ministries as well as new ones.
38.   We have already ascertained ways of improving the existing expenditure tracking and
monitoring system. For example, we intend to develop a common Chart of Accounts
applicable to all MDAs and cover development expenditures too (none of which is the case
now) so that the reporting of actual conmmitments and payments of af expenditures at the
district level can be aggregated at the regional level for each ministry at the ministry-level and
then for all ministries at the CAG. In addition, the approval and recording of all
commitments and payments at the regional, ministerial, and CAG levels would be done
through a computerized system. The computer would print out a voucher or approval slip for
signature of the relevant authority in the MDA such that the approval and recording of
information is simultaneous. All information-with respect to the budget allocation for the
ministry, department, and agency and the existing level of commitments to date-would be on
the approval slip for the approving authority's benefit.
39.   The Government is planning to implement such a system in the following six
ministries by March 1996 covering at least 40 percent of total expenditures and in another 10
ministries by December 1996 covering another 30 percent of total expenditures. The first six
will be the Ministries of Finance, Roads and Highways, Works and Housing, Education,
Health, and Information with the last three already running a pilot-scheme. All ministries
departments and agencies are expected to be covered by the end of 1997.
40.   A new computer-based accounting system, derived from revised accounting principles
such as commitrnents accounting, is also an essential building block in effective expenditure



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 11
management. Implementing a more comprehensive accounting and financial system will
enhance the scope for improved cash management because of the automation of the
Government's accounting in prompt reconciliation with the Bank of Ghana's records. Also,
the adoption of commitments-based accounting or accrual-accounting system will result in a
closer match of the expenditure and revenue reported in the financial statements with the
actual variance of work completed in the comparable accounting period. Implementation of
the revised comprehensive accounting system, suppohted by new procedures derived from an
updated Financial Administrative Regulations (FAR), using the same Chart of Accounts
developed for the expenditure monitoring system will produce the essential financial
information required by Government. However, this will take time. Thus implementation of
the comprehensive accounting system will to cover in the second year the same six MDAs as
covered by the expenditure monitoring system in the first year.
41.   We will also be assessing and taking stock of the existing multi-year contracting
system that is being used by the Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry of Works
and Housing to implement its investment programme. This assessment is expected to lead to
the redesigning of the existing multi-year contracting system by December 1995 and the
implementation of the revised contracting system in the above-cited two ministries by the end
of 1996. The objective of the revised system is to enhance flexibility of such contracting so
that it is responsive to changes in overall fiscal situation, to permit better programming of the
annual financing requirements of multi-year contracts, and to lower the need for large
variation orders on such contracts.
42.   Poverty-Orientation of Expenditures. We also intend to improve the allocation of
actual expenditures in favor of poverty-alleviating programmes. For this purpose we intend to
improve the level and distribution of public expenditures on basic education (primary plus two
years of secondary) and on primary health. Increasing expenditure on rural infrastructure
covering rural electrification, feeder roads, water supply, sanitation services and market
infrastructure is also part of improving poverty-orientation of public expenditures. To improve
the effectiveness and poverty orientation of expenditures, we plan to raise non-wage recurrent
and development expenditures-by 10 percent in real terms in 1995 and in 1996 over the
preceding year-on prinary health and basic education and raise development expenditure on
rural infrastructure, also by 10 percent in real terms in 1995 and 1996 over the preceding
year. The 1995 budget has made the recovery allocation.
43. Public Service Rr. We have been rethinking our earlier approach to public
service restrucuring, while maintaining our original goals of a leaner and more effecdve
public service. We are doing this by sensitiing public service employees to the need for
reforms if we are to deliver quality basic service at least cost. As a first step a series of
workshops have been held where Chief Directors of Ministries have discussed their mandates,
functions, outputs, and the resources necessary to effectively achieve their goals of delivering
good quality services.' Individual MDAs are also undertaldng beneficiary assessments to
ascertain the deficiencies in the provision of their services as perceived by the beneficiaries.
The next round of workshops in individual MDAs, led by their Chief Directors are expected
to generate some basic principles of the restructuring programme.
44.   To signal strong Government commitment, to translate the consensus on basic
principles into implementable actions and to mobilize political support for those measures, the



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 11
President has lunched the National Institutional Renewal Progranne to be managed by the
newly established National Overview Commnittee (NOC) chaired by the Presidential Adviser.
The Committee will be supported by the National Technical Policy Group, for purposes of
coordinating and building consensus on public service restructuring-including civil service
reform, capacity building in Government, and rationalization of subvented agencies-to
achieve the twin goals of reducing the size of the public service funded by the budget and
enhance the effectiveness of the public service to deliver basic services. We expect to finalize
the recommendations on specific measures by the end of 1995, as part of the medium-term
programme being developed to support 'Ghana-Vision 2020."
Conduion
45.   In view of the initiatives taken by the Government of Ghana in formulating and
implementing the prograrmne to promnote private sector growth, the Goverment requests your
favorable consideration for the extension of an adjustment credit in the amount of at least
US$70 million to support the private sector adjustrnent programme.
Yr1r



- 64 -                                      Attachment to Annex 5
Page I of 2
SOE candidates                                    List of SOEs in the Program
1. Stratelc for pre-prtvattzaton restructuring
Number                                   Restructuring       Ownersup %                                  PSAC
PSAC SEC DIC  Name                          eftort/plon   EmDl. GOG flanks      Comments                   actions
1   31        State insurance Corporation               1483  100%
2   215       State Hou3ing Corporaionf                  1850  100%         Legal tine issues
3   369       P&T - Telecom                              3995  100%         Supported Dy PETA
4   42        Mim Timber Company                         1 734  100%        Suitaole for mecium
9062
2. Mediun vloble/potentially vicble for privatztlton
Number                                   Asaessment          Ownership %                                 PSAC
PSAC SEC DIC  Name                         Viabity Mode  Emod. GOG Banks       Comments                   octions
1   368       Ghana Alrways - Catering      v    pp      250  100%
2   217  99   TemaFoodComplex               v     a      493  100%          also DIC: belng divested94
3   161       Twifo Oil Poim Plantaion Co   v    po      1116  100%         ownership questtoned - OK
4    7        Ghana Oil Company             v     po     555  100%
5   200       Ghana On Palm Dev.Corp.       v     po     59  100%           being divested
6   202       Ghana Rubber Esates           v    po      1170  100%
7   392 88   Cocoa Processing - TAKSI       v            708  100%         One of two plants
8   59        Aluworks Umited               v            405  64%   17%
9   367       Ghana Alrways - Handling      v    pp      290  100%
10  370       Ghana Pubilshing - Tema Pr.   v    pp       407  100%
11  373 new  GNTCBattling                   v             343  100%
12   94       Ghona Bauxite Company         v    pp       586  55%
13   49       Accra Markets Umited          v    pp             75%
14   48       Accro City Hotes/Novotel      v    pp             t5%
15   6        Ghona Nairl Procurement       v             245  100%
16  193       Ghana fatming Compony         v    pp       177  100%         Pepsi franchise
17   24       Ghona Reinsaronce Co.         v    pa       132  100%         Important local player
18  191       Ghamot Company Umited         v    po       150  100%         Toyota notir ealer
19   98  90   Ghona Narl Manganese          v    po    1421  100%           Divested December93
20  213       Precious Minerals Marketig    v     pa      82  100%          Controls marketing
21   28       National Trust & Holding Co    v    mbo      36   66%  33%    Large asset porttoao
22  197       Ghana Food Distbuton          pv     a      1305  100%
23   15       State Transport Corporation   pv    a       908  100%
24   12       OmnibusServAcesAuthority      pv     a      1122  100%
25  207       GIHOC Pharmoceuticals         pv     a      485  100%
26  377       GNTC Generol Foos             pv     a      326  100%
27  218       Volta Lake Transport          pv            34M  100%
28  378       GNTC Heavy Equipment          pv     a       90  100%          Key suppier to mines
29  380       GNTC Motors                   pv     a      200  100%
30   145       Plont Pooi                   pv     a      365  20%  60%
31   16       TemoOlPefinery                pv    po      189  100%
32   14       State Shippin Corporation     pv    pp      169  100%          Signifcont assets
33   189        onsa Tyre Company Ltd.      nv     a      549  100%          Signirfcont assets
34   104 91   GhanaTextMe Printing                 pp     1124  55%          DIC: beingdivested94
35   186  97   AftccanTlmber& Ptwood               pp     1861  100%         DIC: beingdvested94
36  307 42   GIHOC Papr Convenia                   pp     315  100%          DIC: being divested 94
37   188      Automontv Technicd Serv.                    578   8`%          DiC: Being processed
38  177       GlHOCFibre                                  814  100%          OIC:Selnoprocesed
39  309       Gllcksen                                    1068  100%         DIC: Bein processed
40  301       Tema Shipyard                               350  100%          DIC: Being processed
41   388       City Hotel Kumasi                          >200  >50%         DIC: Beng processed
42   35       Juapong Textiles                            1327  100%         Dscusslon with SEC
43   47       Western Veneer & Lumbet                     1377  100%         Discusslon with SEC
44   86        EhwAoa Wood Products          v     pp     201         51%   From srncil list
45    1        City Express Compony          v     a      1458  100%         From restructung 1st
46  214        State Construction Corp      pv    pp    2400  100%           From restructurng list
28300
note: Viable * v: Potentiolly viaoble * pv not viable * nv pp * private placement po * publlc oater: a * public aucalon I * Iqulcaoono
wason\clents\gnona\eteo+95\SOECANDI.XLS                     Page I                                                  1995-01-04



- 65  -                        ~~~~~AttachmenE to Annex 
- 65 -                          ~~~~~Pajge 2 of 2
1. Sm4I 5OES for divresthtur
Numoer                                   Assessrnernt        OwnershlD %                                 PSAC
PSAC SEC DIC  Name                        VlaDityMode  Empt. GOG Bznks         Corr-menrs                 actlon5
1   125      NasYa Rice C:omDcany Lto      v             34        514%
2   B0        Crystcl Oil Compony Umited   v    pp       50  1o00
3   152       Shci HilsCarme Ranch        v    PP                  100%
4   160       Tongu Ranch Umlted           v    PP                  51%
5   168       Wulugu Uvestock Products     v    pp       32         99%
6   101       Ghana Sanyo ComPany Ltd      v             130  50%
7   102       Ghana Stone Qiuarry          v             89         51%
8   196       Gnacna F,lm lndustrY         v             191  1 012
9   69        Buipe Lime Llmited           v             I10        60%    Being neg;oticted
l o   147     Pretcar Concrete Proaucts     v            64   55%t  45%
1 1   74      Clay Procucts LUrited        pv    a       133        100%
12  372       GNTC BcRcery                 pv    a       42  100%
13  383       GNTC Phcrrmceounccl          pv    a       46  100%
14  38.4      GNTC Technical               pv    a       82  100%
1 5  385      GNTC Textiles                pv    a       39  100%
16  381       GNTC Oilvett Company         pv    a       36  100%
17  383       GNTC Properties              pv    a       77  100%
1 8  376      GNTC Oeoortment Stores       pv    a       206  100%
19  211       National mndust.ies Corp HQ  pv    a       157  55%          potential iUquloction
20  374       GNTC Buylng Divslon          nv      1      27   1 00%       to be dssOlved
2 1   6 1     Anwocnkwonto Oll Mlil[s      nv             43        100%  !zotentici uauicianon
22  375       GNTC Clinic                  pv             15  100%         ::otentlal illuidation
23  379       GNTC Metal Works             pv             42  100%          potennici l uilation
24   65       BHC Mechanical WorkshopD     nv    a        27  100%         pDotenrcl liqulUanton
25  244 new  GIHOC Central Company/HQa   nv    a          30  100%          potential iiquicatonn
26   71       Cape Coast Q>uarry           nv    a        56   30%  70%   potentncl lUquldanon
27  199       GNTC Hecai Offlce            nv      1     215  lOOS          to De cissciveCi
28  169       ASnantn Reg.Dev,Corp.(rZDC)    nv    a      68  100%          potennici liqukcotton
29  180       Greater AccracRDC             nv    a            100%        cDotentict Iqulcotion
30   1 72     Central RDC                   nv    a       185   0 %         Dotennlal UiQukeCOon
3 1   l85     westem ROC                    nv    a       60  100S          potentcal/lQutdaton
32  171       Brong AhCfo RDC               nv    a       105  10f0%        potential lqulOCHton
33  186       volat RDC                     nv    a       1 7 1009%         potential liqulciafion
3,4  173      Eastern RDC                  nv    a        104  100%         potenMal Ilciqucltion
35  187       Northern RDC                  nv    a       S0  100%          potenrici liqutidation
36            Gmnan Mcnufocturlng Co.       nv    c       1S 5 100          potenticl liqukcotion
37  263 new  State Enterprise Audit Corp.   nv    a       32  100%          potentlcl liqukidation
38  18.3       Upper West RDC               nv    a       1 7100%           potentnol (Iqulidafon
39  371       Upper Ecst RDC                nv    c       1 6 10f0%         porenticl Uqulcaction
40  128 96   NIC Chemicals &Paints                        34  lf00%         DIC: being divested 94
41l  176 104  GIHOC Central Acverksing                    30  100%          DlC: being Ilqukicotd 94
42  228 98   Fanao Auto                                   35   65%          DIC: being divested 94
43  356  5   Kumasi Catering                                   100S         DIC: being alvesteci 94
44  365 95   Pankrono Poultry                                  100%         DIC: being divested94
zi5  364 94   Kennikrode Poultry                               100%         DIC: being civested 94
46  386 100  ICAP (partof GIHOC Phrma)                         60%          DIC: being divested 94
47  366 103  GIHOC Vegetable ON - Kssirra                      100%         DIC: being liqulcoteci 94
48   l1 1o 02  GIHOC Vegetable Oll - Tarnfle                   100%         OIC: being Uiqucliateci 94
49  258 105  NIC VehicleAssembiy                          57  100%          DIC: being dlvested94
50  174 101  GIHOC Manufccturing                          se  100%          DIC: being liqukiate c94
51  120       LoyaltY Inlustries                          70  100%          DIC: being processedi
52  106       GIHOC Footwrear                             110  100%         DIC: beingprocessed
53   87       Ejura forms                                 98   91%          DIC: being processed
54  181 80   Meot Morketing Board                         150  100%         SEC alscussions
65   1 75 106  Ghona Seed                          1      493  100%         Being liquidated
56  178.      GIHOC Moor ProCuCSn                              l00%         SEC discu=sons
57  107       GIHOC Marble Works                          68  100%          SEC discusslons
58  222       Alnylnose Oil Mills                                    100%   SEC discussions
50  299       PormaCze Poultry                                 100%         SEC discussions
60   73       Ceramica Cordero                                        60%   SEC discusslons
61  387       Dorocio Garmnent                                 100%         SEC dlscuisslons
62   159      Tormos Ghnon                         1      43   50%          Belng liclucactea
63   33       Fafic Machine Shop                          35  100%          SEC alscussions
64  n.oc      Sunyorl Catering Rest House                       100%        New from MFEP Novt94
3fs08
14            Total                                     41170
wiison\clients\gnono\tel:)95\SOECANDI.XLS                  Page 2                                                   19WSC! -X



-66 -                                          Annex 6
Page I of 7
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
A STUDY ON THE EXTERNAL MARKETING OF COCOA
The Government of Ghana wishes to conduct a study on the external marketing of cocoa.
The following sets out briefly the terms of reference for such a study.
L     OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
1.    The objectives of the study are (i) to assess the current state of the cocoa export
marketing arrangements in the light of the key goals of Ghana's cocoa policy -- to increase
the quantity of cocoa output, to enhance the quality of cocoa, to increase farmers'
incomes, and to increase export revenues; (ii) to examine the experience with export
marketing systems in other cocoa producing countries (Brazil, Cote d'Ivoire, Cameroon,
Nigeria, Malaysia, and Indonesia) as also in some non-cocoa producing countries
(Madagascar, Costa Rica, Uganda, and Kenya) which have liberalized extemal marketing
systems for other crops and maintained quality; (iii) to lay out options for cocoa export
marketing systems in Ghana; and (iv) to make recommendations.
IL.    SCOPE OF THE STUDY
2.    In line with the objectives laid out above, the study will undertake the following:
A.    An Assessment of the Internal Marketing of Cocoa
3.    In 1993, the Govemment partially liberalized the intemal marketing of cocoa by
allowing six private Licensed Buying Companies (LBCs) to compete with the Produce
Buying Company (PBC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of COCOBOD. After one-year of
trading, the private traders accounted for 20 percent of the domestic cocoa marketing with
one trader accounting for most of it. The COCOBOD remains the dominant trader
accounting for 80 percent of the domestic cocoa marketing.
4.    The study will assess the experience gained in the internal marketing of cocoa with
the introduction of this competition and make recommendations. In particular, the study
will address:
* What have been the results of this partial domestic liberalization? For instance,
have cocoa producers gained through this arrangement in terms of higher
prices for their produce?



Annex 6
- 67 -                                       Page 2 of 7
* re there constraints to private domestic trading in cocoa? For instance, are the
marketing margins from which the private traders were expected to derive their
profits too low? Is obtaining financing a problem?
* If there are constraints faced by the private traders, then how can they be
overcome? What is the potential role for export liberalization in resolving
them?
B.    An Assessment of the Current External Marketing of Cocoa
5.    The COCOBOD is the monopoly exporter of cocoa and this section will focus on
two issues:
(i)    A review of the evolution of the external marketing of cocoa in Ghana.
(ii)   An assessment of the existing monopoly system, bringing out its strengths
and weaknesses, and measuring the level of efficiency in the current
system. In particular, this section will address the following:
-  What is the marketing costs (defined as free-on-board price-producer-
price export tax)? How does it compare with other countries?
D  What are the costs of the current system in terms of lost foreign
currency export receipts (from potentially higher export volumes with
lower taxes and marketing costs)?
*  What are the costs of the current system in terms of foregone eamings
for producers (i.e., from lower share of producers in the FOB price of
cocoa)?
C.    Lessons on External Marketing from Other Countries
6.    Other cocoa producing countries employ different marketing mechanisms for
exporting cocoa. This section will investigate the lessons from their experience through
three channels:
* The Consultant will provide the lessons from other countries'
experiences of various forms of extemal marketing arrangements, and
from the process and pace of liberalization where it has happened (e.g.,
Was there a gradual opening up of the export market for the domestic
private traders or was the pace quick, and what was the legal and
regulatory framework that was needed?). What are the results on the
ground of their marketing arrangements?.



- 68                                          Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
D.   Why Export Liberalization?
7.    The study should clarify wAt export liberalization means m the context of
Ghanaian cocoa, i.e. (i) the removal of the COCOBOD monopoly, and (ii) the reduction
of export taxes. With respect to the former, the elimination of the government monopoly
on exports, the recommendation is straight forward on pure economic efficiency grounds.
With respect to the latter, the complete elmination of the export tax may not be the frst-
best solution because of Ghana's monopoly power m the world cocoa market. Ths would
suggest that welfire will be maxmized by some positive tax on exports and if the currnt
levels of taxabon are higher than the opmal export tax, then national welfare can be
increased by reducing the taxes to the optimal level and export beralization justified. In
this comnection, the stdy would address the following:
* What are the efficiency gains from the COCOBOD competing with pnvate
exporters of cocoa? Who are the beneficiaries of this?
* What is the opuimal export tax on cocoa for Ghana? Are current levels of
export taxes excessive relative to competing countries?
E     ImpLtcations of Export Liberaization
8.    The study wil conduct a thorough examination of the potential implications of
export leralization so that the final policy recom dons are based on a clear
undertanding of the pros and cons and an assssment of what measures maybe needed to
offset any negative consequences.
(I)   Finacial Implicatious. The liberalization of external marketing will
change the role that iternal and external financial institutions play in cocoa
marketing. For instance, the financial rources chamded into the
domestic market through COCOBOD's large financial operations, in
general, and through its internaional borrowings, in particdlar, will be
substantiay reduced. Moreover, private cocoa exporters will seek to raise
resources in inational markets. In addition, in a liberalized
environment, new private insuments for crop financing may be necessay.
These could include a system of warehouse receipts, commodity bonds,
and prefancing by foreign buyers. In this context, the study should look
at three issues:
*  What would be the role of intenal financial instiuons (mcluding the
Cental Bank)?
*  What inuments for crop financing will be required in a hlealized
enviroment? What are the lessons from other counties, for instance,
Uganda, where foreign buyers provide prefinain  or Kenya, whre
financing is available on the basis of warehouse receipts?



Annex 6
- 69 -                                       Page 4 of 7
* What would be the role of external financial institutions?
* Implications of locally registered Licenced Buying Companies selling to
their parent companies overseas.
(ii)   Macroeconomic Implications. The study should analyze the
macroeconomic consequences of export liberalization. This linkage is
through the expropriation of the surplus export revenues of the Cocoa
Board which not only provides foreign exchange earnings for balance of
payments needs but also meets budgetary expenditures. The concern is on
two counts: (i) export revenues may fall, if export liberalization leads to
larger exports and lower export revenues (i.e. there is an "adding-up
problem"); and (ii) the taxation of export revenues will be at lower levels.
The former has implications for Ghana's balance of payments; the latter, for
its fiscal accounts. The study should analyze both of these concerns and
determine the size and sign of the fiscal effect.
(iii) Implications for the Premium Qaulity of Ghanian Cocoa. The
preservation of the premium which Ghanian cocoa commands has been
cited as one of the reasons for maintaining the monopoly of the
COCOBOD in external marketing. But it is not clear what the size of, or
reason for, this premium is nor what the role of the COCOBOD in
maintaining this premium is. Any premium will have to be preserved in a
liberalized environment. Therefore, this section will examine four issues:
* What is the size of the premium commanded by Ghanaian cocoa?
*  What are the reasons for this premium?
*  What is the role of the COCOBOD in maintaining the premium?
*  In a liberalized environment, how can the premium be maintained?
*  What will be the imrplication of breaking up the monopoly of quality
control by registering another company to compete with the Quality
Control Division of Cocobod?
(iv)   Implications for Forward Sales and Price Risk Management. The
COCOBOD currently sells forward a significant amount of the crop. The
two main benefits of forward sales are the capture of a "forward premium"
- the fact that forward prices are higher than spot prices due to the cost of
carry, and the provision of price risk management whereby forward sales
reduce both the uncertainty to the government of future revenues and the
uncertainty to the farmer of future prices. The study will, therefore,
investigate the following three issues:



Annex 6
- 70                                       Page S of 7
* What will happen to forward sales under extemal marketing
liberalization?
* What will be its implications for price risk management?
* How will price risk be managed under the liberalized environment?
(v)   Implications for Contract Performance. Currently, the reputation of
Ghanaian cocoa exports is believed to be very high on account of
exceptional contract performance -- that the promised quality is delivered,
contract terms are fulfilled, delivery takes place in a timely fashion without
undue delays, and exporters are financially viable. Any study on external
marketing liberalization will need to look at this and assess how it may be
affected. This section will, therefore, examine three issues:
* What is the current contract performance?
i How will contract performance be affected by external marketing
liberalization?
D How can contract performance be maintained under the new
arrangements?
* Implications for market structure in consuming countries. It is
necessary to study the recent developments in consuming countries,
particularly the trend of consolidating and concentrating operations in
the hands of a few manufacturers, processors, and dealers and what
implications this may have on plans to liberalize the Ghanaian industry.
9.    Since the market determination of contract performance will depend on the degree
of competition among exporters and among local buyers, this section will also assess the
degree of competition that is likely to emerge under external marketing liberalization.
F.    International Interdependencies?
10.   How does the analysis above change when the interdependencies of international
competitors is incorporated. For instance, while considering its cocoa export policy,
should Ghana pay attention to policy changes in competitor countries? How does this
affect the gains from trade that accrue to Ghana? How does this affect export revenues
and tax revenues?
G.   How Should Export Liberalization be Phased In?
11.   Since export liberalization implies private participation and a diminished role for
the Cocoa Board in production and marketing functions, the study should also identify the



An= 
- 71 -                                      Psge 6 oa  7
fiuure role and how that's likely to evolve over time. Should the Cocoa Board coniue
to enforce quality control? What about its role in research and development? If the
Cocoa Board is to have a limited role only, should there be another body to oversee the
well-functioing of the cocoa sector? What should be the degree of government and
private participation in such a body, if any?
mIL STUDY TOURS
(i)   The IDA wil make available backgrnd material on the experiences of
other countries to the Task Force.
(ii)   Study tours will be organized so that a Study Team, composed of a select
group from the Task Force, will leam, on a first-hand bass, the experiences
of cocoa-producing countries, using different modes of external marketing
of cocoa The relevant countries are Brazl, Cote dlvoire, Cameroon,
Malaysia, and Indonesia.
(sin) Study Team would also have discussions with the main cocoa buyers,
manictuers and other end users as well as the Cocoa Associafions of
London and the Nethelands in order to eicit their xpienences with the
ernal muketing arrangemts   other cocoa producing counties and to
obtain their rcoo  for Ghana.
IV. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE STUDY
12.   The study shall be directed by a TaLs Forc under the  irmansp of the Deputy
Mnier of Finance. He may, however, nminate an officer from the Mistry to be in
charge of the day-today mngen of the study.
13. The functions of the Task Force will be to:
(i)   Issue the Terms of Reference for the Study.
(ii)   Select the Consuwants who will undetake the Study.
(1ii)   Review the Study and its recomndons.
(iv)   Hold semi_n  and discussions - in the Govenmet, with cocoa farmers,
in public forums, and in policymaking bodies - to develop a consensus on
the next steps and an Action Plan
(v) Develop an Action Plan containing (a) a specific set of recommendations,
and (b) the timetable for the implementation of the recom ions.
14.   The Task Force will be composed of twelve persons, in addition to the Chairman,
as follows:



- 72 -                                           Annex6
Page 7 of 7
* Two representatives from the COCOBOD
*  Two rpreseatives of the cocoa farmers
*  Two representatives of the LBCs
*  Representatives from two local banks
*  One representative from
* the Private Sector Advisory Group
*  One representative from the Private Sector Roundtable
*  One representative from the Mistry of Agriculture
*  One other person appointed by the Cbairman
The Task Force will appoint independent conslants to caffy out the Terms of Reference
above, as relevant.
V.  TIME SCHEDULE FOR TE STUDY
15.   The first draft of the Study, including the Study Tours, wil be completed by
July 1995. Tne recomnions of the Task Force should be finalized by
September 1995.
VL FUNDING OF THE STUDY
16.   The study will be fimded from the Cocoa Rehabitation Project.



- 73 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate       Projected
Indicator               1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                           47.9   48.6   48.6   47.6    45.6    47.6   46.6   45.5
Industry                              15.9   16.0   16.2   16.1    15.7    16.8   17.0   17.2
Services                              36.3   35.4   35.3   36.4    38.6    35.7   36.5   37.3
Total Consumption                       94.0   92.2   98.0   101.0   95.6    94.5   92.2   91.2
Gross domestic fixed                    14.4   15.9   12.8   14.8    15.9    16.4   17.3   17.5
investment
Government investment                  6.8    7.7    8.5    9.9    11.5    9.8    9.7    9.4
Private investmaint                    7.6    8.1    4.3    4.9       4.4     6.6    7.6    8.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)'                         16.0   16.0   16.0   19.9    25.4    26.4   28.2   28.2
Imports (GNFS)                          24.4   24.1   26.8   35.7    36.9    37.3   37.7   36.9
Gross domestic savings                  6.0    7.8    2.0    -1.0    4.4        5.5    7.8    8.8
Gross national savingsb                 7.4    9.3    4.2    1.4        7.3     8.4   10.6   11.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  6157   6866   6885   6085    5422    5861   6129   6658
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per              400    420    450    430       430      440    450    460
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1984
prices)
Gross domestic product at             3.3%   5.3%   3.9%    5.0%    3.8%    5.0%   5.1%   5.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                 2.7%   5.4%    3.3%    3.5%    5.2%    4.8%   5.1%   5.7%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1984 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat                -0.8%   2.2%   0.8%    1.8%    0.8%    1.9%   2.1%   2.4%
market prices
Total consumption                     -1.7%   0.70/o  4.4%    1.9%    0.0%    1.3%   1.2%   2.2%
Private consumption                  -0.9%   0.3%   2.6%   -1.1%    1.4%    1.5%   1.6%   2.4%
(continued)



- 74 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate        Projected
Indicator                1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)'                         982    1098   1105   1208    1375    1547   1729   1875
Merchandise FOB                       897    998    986    1064    1227    1397   1570   1708
Imports (GNFS)'                        1505   1652   1845   2172    2001    2183   2310   2455
Merchandise FOB                      1200   1313   1457   1728    1577    1755   1865   1986
Resource balance                        -523   -554   -740   -964    -626    -636   -582   -580
Net current transfers                   202    220    255    261        271     285    300    315
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                -218   -252   -376   -559    -265    -217   -229   -207
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               15     20      22      25      30       35     50      65
investment
Long-term loans (net)                   294    357    387    371        295     329    327    324
Official                               336    361    387    378        329     363    358    348
Private                                -43      4      0       -8      -34     -34    -31    -25
Other capital (net, including           27      46    -157    205       103      19     15      -2
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves'                     -118   -171    124    -41       -163    -166   -163   -179
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                  -8.5%   -8.1%  -10.8%  -15.8%  -11.5%  -10.9%  -9.5%  -8.7%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1984 prices)
Merchandise exports                     5.8%    9.0%   2.1%   16.6%    0.2%    10.1%   8.9%   4.6%
(FOB)
Primarv                               4.2%   11.0%   1.4%   18.7%   -0.6%    10.2%   7.3%   3.5%
Merchandise imports                    5.1%   10.0%   7.2%   13.1%   -7.70/o   6.8%   4.5%   4.1%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Currentrevenues                         11.8   13.8   11.1   16.7    23.7    20.3   19.8   19.6
Current expenditures                    10.1   10.6   13.3   17.6    19.0    18.2   16.3   15.5
(Continued)



- 75 -                                               Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
Ghana - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actul              FpstEma         Projeted
Indicator              1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997
Currnt account urplus(+)               1.6    3.2   -2.2   -0.9    4.8    2.1    3.5    4.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                    6.5    7.2    8.5    9.9    11.5    9.8    9.7    9.4
Foreign financing                      6.3    6.3    6.2    10.1    7.3       8.5    7.3    6.7
Monetary indicators
MlJGDP (at cancat marikt              13.4   13.4   17.3   16.8    18.6   16.4   15.4   14.7
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                      13.3   27.2   50.3   27.4    46.2    14.0   9.8    7.2
Price indices( 1984 =100)
Merchandise expot price                83      85     82      76      87      90     93     97
idex
Maercbhandseimotpice                   110    110    115    121      120    125    127    129
index
Merchaniisetamnsof ade                 75      77     71      62      73      72     73     75
index
Real exchange rae                     313    307    339    423       515    477    487    486
(USSJLCt '
Real mtmrest mtes                     -2.9    9.7    16.7   7.3      3.0
Conmsnm priceindex                   37.2%   18.0%  10.1%  25.0%   24.8%   31.4%o 11.7%   6.4%
(% growth rae)
GDP deflator                         38.7%  20.4%   12.5%  25.0%   26.5%   23.4%  11.6%   6.4%
(% gowth rate)
a. 'GNFS denotes goods and nonfcr servic'e
b. Includes net umrquited tansfers excluding official capital pts.
c. Includes use of 1MF resomrces.
d. Cenral govcrnmeat aly
c. 'LCUL denotes 'local curency units An  am   n TJSS/WCU denotes appreciafiao



- 76 -                                              Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Ghana - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual             Estimate        Projected
Indicator              1990  1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996   1997
Total debt outsinding and          3600.3 4073.9 4258.4 4781.0  5002.9  5280.3 5561.2 5789.0
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Net disbursements (USSm)'          187.0  455.0  203.8  521.7   190.2  276.3  280.9  227.8
Total debt service (IDS)           342.9  313.4  277.8  431.5   371.2   409.7  436.0  478.0
(USSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          363.8  368.2  376.7  389.3   358.7   336.6  316.7  303.1
TDO/GDP                           58.5   59.3   61.8   78.6    92.3    90.1   90.7   86.9
TDS/XGS                           34.7   28.3   24.6   35.1    26.6   26.1   24.8   25.0
ConcessionalITDO                  60.1   62.4   67.4   68.7    71.7    73.3   74.2   75.4
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBR.DDS/publicDS                   5.9    6.9    7.7    4.6      5.2    4.1    3.4    3.1
Preferred creditor DS/public      53.7   46.0   46.2   29.3    39.6   40.3   43.7   50.6
DS
MRD DS/XGS                         2.0    1.9    1.8    1.5       1.3     1.0    0.8    0.7
IFC (USSm)
Loans                              6.5    6.8    17.3   57.1    9.9
Equity and quasi-equitv /c         4.4    2.4    1.7    3.0       0.8
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSm)              ..    9.9
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 8
T1IE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA                                Page 1 of 2
STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(Ai of Februarv 28. 1995)
Amount in USS Million
(le0 cancellation)
Loan or
Credit          Fisl
Number          Year        Borrower    Purpose                             Bank              IDA        Undisbursed
9 loam and 55 credits closed                                               16.22             1350.36          0.29
Of which SALs and Propa= LoanaS
Cr. 1393        23          Ghana        Recon. Imports                                         40.00          0.00
F-0090         24          Ghana        Export Rehab.                                         35.29           0.00
Cr. 1435        S4          Ghana        Export Rehab.                                         40.10           0.D0
Cr. 1573        S5          Ghana        Roeons Import                                          60.00          0.00
A.0030         26          GhWa         Recona. Import                                        26.97           0.00
Cr. 1672        26          Ghana        hndustrial Sector Adjust.                             22.50           0.00
A-0130         S6          Ghaa         Indiustrial Sector Adjust                              25.00          0.00
Cr. 1744        27          Gharia       Education Sector Adjust                                34.50          0.00
Cr. 1777        27          Ghana        SAC 1                                                 34.00           0.00
A-0250         27          Ghana        SAC I                                                 21.00           0.00
A-0251         SS          Ghana        SAC I                                                  15.00          0.00
Cr. 1911        IS          Ghna         Finacial Sector Adjust                                100.00          0.00
Cr. 1911-1      29          Ghana        Fiunncial Sector Adjust.                               6.60           0.00
Cr. 2005        S9          Ghana        SAC II                                                120.00          0.00
Cr. 2005-1      90          Ghana        SAC 11                                                  5.70          0.00
Cr. 2005-2      91          Ghana        SAC II                                                  2.30          0.00
Cr.2236-0       91          Ghana        Private InvesL Promotion                              120.00          0.00
Cr.2236-1       92          Gham         Private Inves Promotion                                 6.10          0.00
Cr.2236-2       93          Ghana        Private Invest Promotion                                6.54          0.00
Cr. 2140        90          Ghana        Education Sector AdjusL II                             50.00          0.46
Sub-Total                                                                                      244.20          0.46
Cr. 1247        22          Ghna         Public Enterprise TA                                   10.50          3.43
Cr. 1254        22          Ghana        Cocoa Rehabilitation                                   40.00         25.53
Cr. 1252        2S          GhLan        Transport Rehabilitation 1                             60.00          10.12
Cr. 1921        aS          Ghana        Mining Sector Rehab.                                   40.00          9.23
Cr. 1946        29          Ghana        Telecommnunicatiorns n                                 19.00          3.22
Cr. 1976        29          Ghan         Forat Res Management                                   39.40          15.92
Cr. 1996        29          Ghana        Privae SME Dev.                                        30.00           2.22
Cr. 2039        29          Ghana        Water Sector Rehab.                                    25.00          13.94
Cr. 2061        90          Ghana        Fifth Power (ECG)                                      40.00          14.23
Cr. 2109        90          Ghana        VRA/Sixoh Power                                        20.00          17.63
Cr. 2157        90          Ghan         Urban 1I                                               70.00         43.32
Cr. 2120        91          Ohman         Agric. Diveniftcation                                 16.50          14.24
Cr. 2192        91          Ghana        Trnsport Rehabilitation nI                             96.00          55.12
Cr. 2193        91          Ghana        Hea1th & Population II                                 27.00          12.41
Cr. 2224        91          Ghana        EconL Management Support                               15.00           6.93
Cr. 2247        91          Gha          National Agic. Research                                22.00          19.31
Cr. 2278        91          Ghana        Cormnunity Sec. Schools                                14.70           0.95
Cr. 2312        92          Ghana        Financial Sector Adjus II                             100.00         42.63
Cr. 2319        92          Ghana        National Feeder Roads                                  55.00          42.18
Cr. 2345    *   92          Ghana        Agricultural Sector Adj.                               20.00          21.35
Cr. 2345.1   0   94         Ghana        Agicultural Sector Adj.                                 5.74           3.24
Cr. 2345-2    b  95         Ghana        Agricultural Sector Adj.                                5.00           5.37
Cr. 2346        92          Ghan         NaL Agric. Een.                                        30.40          25.26
Cr. 2349        92          Ghana        Lituacy & Functional Skills                            17.40          12.40
Cr. 2426        93          Ghan         Envirorunental Resource MgL                           1I.10           14.63
Cr. 2422        93          Ghan         Tertiary Education                                     45.00          36.02
Cr. 2441        93           Ghana       National Livestock Services                            22.45          17.76
Cr.2467         93          Ghana        National Electrification                               20.00          31.12
Cr.249S         93          Ghana        Urban Trsport                                          76.20          20.55
Cr.2502         93          Ghana        Enterprise Development                                 41.00          40.36
Cr.250S         93          Ghana        Primary School Devt.                                   65.10          62.12
Cr.2555         94          Ghan         Aricultural Sector InvesL                              21.50          20.73
Cr.2562-0       94          GhaLna       Local Govament Dev.                                    32.50          40.23
Cr.2604         94           Ghana       Community Water & Sanitation                           21.96          23.54
Cr.2665     b   95           Ghan        Private Sector Development                             13.00          13.44
Cr.26S2         95          Ghana        Thermal (P-VII)                                       175.60         185.22
Cr.2694         95          Ghana        EduclVoc.Tmt.                                           9.60           9.60
TOTAL                                                         126.22         2857.01        1065.52
otwhch has been repaid                                        140.19           27.17
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                                 46.03          2229.85
Amount sold           033
ofwbhch repaid       038
TOTAL undhabursed                                                                           1066.22
a Approved during or aQer FY20.
b Not yet effeativc.
' SAL/SECAL



-78-                                              Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of February 28, 1995)
Original Gross Commitments
Fisa                                                               Amount in USS million
Year           Borrower                  Type of Business         Loan      Equit  Total
1985        Ashanti Goldfields Corp.      Mining                    55.0        -     55.0 Vi
1987        Keta Bsin Oil Exploration     Oil                        -         4.5    4.5 21
1987        Cazadian Bogosu Resources     Mining                     -         0.5    0.5
1989        CanAian Bogosu Resources II   Mining                     -         0.5    0.5
1990        Continental Acceptances Ltd.    Mercbant Banking         -         0.9    0.9
1990        Wahome Steel Ltd.             Steel Mfg.                 3.2       -       3.2
1989/90       Canadian Bogosu Resoures m    Mining                    47.5       0.5   48.0 31
1990        Ashanti Goldfields Corp. II   Mining                    70.0        -     70.0 4/
1990        Iduapriem                     Mining                     -         3.0    3.0
1991        Alugan (AEF)                  Aluminum                   0.3       -       0.3
1991        Plastic Laminates (AEF)       Plastics                   0.6        -      0.6 2V
1991        Hotel Investments (Ghana) Ltd.  Tourism                  4.2        -      4.2
1991        Dimples Inn (AEF)             Tourism                    0.2       -       0.2 2/
1991        Canadian Bogosu Rewsurcs IV   Mining                     0.8       0.4    1.2
1991        Continental Acceptanes H      Mechant Banking            3.0        -      3.0
1991        Securities Discount House     Discount House             -         0.2    0.2
1991        Appinh-Menkah (AEF)           Soap Mfg.                  0.9        -      0.9
1991        Iduapriem i                   Mining                    36.5        -     36.5 Sl
1992        Ghanal                        Aluminium                  -         0.4    0.4
1992        Packrite (AEM)                Cardboard Mfg.             0.6        -      0.6
1993        Achimota Brewery              Beer Mfg.                  3.5       1.0    4.5 2/
1993        Wahome Steel II               Steel Mfg.                 2.0        -      2.0
1993        Ecobank                       Merchant Bank              6.0        -      6.0
1993        Continental Acceptances II    Merchant Banking           5.0        -      5.0
1993        Polytex (AEF)                 Plastic Bag                0.4        -      0.4
1993        BMK - Primwood (AEF)          Particle Board              1.0              1.0
1993        Combined Farms (AEF)          Agribusiness               0.4        -      0.4
1993        Ashanti Goldfields (AMEP)     Mining                    140.0       -    140.0 6/
1993/94       Ghana Leasing                 Capital Markets             5.0      0.8    5.8
1994        Ghacem                        Cement                      3.0      0.0    3.0
1994        Palm Royal (AEF)              Tourism                     1.0      0.0    1.0
1994        Afariwas (AEF)                Aribusiness                 0.4       -      0.4
1994        GHUMCO (AEF)                  Manufacturing               0.6       -      0.6
1995        Shangri-la Hotel              Tourism                     0.3       -      0.3
Total Gross Commitment                                                 391.4      12.7  404.1
Leass repayments, cancllations                                         258.7      5.1  263.8
and exchange adjustments
Net Commitments Held by IFC                                            132.7      7.6  140.3
Total Undisbursed                                                       26.0       0.5   26.5
1/ Inclde a USS27.5 mllion paticion.
2/ Invetmu which have ben ally canceld, te odid wnua.-otL wod redeemed, or r,paid.
3/ Icludes a USS29.0 milion participaion.
4/ Include a USS35.0 miion paniipation.
S/ Include a USS30.0 million participation.
6/ Include a US$l 10.0 million participation.



- 79 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSAC)
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Section 1:           Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time Taken to Prepare:                    17 months
Project Prepared by:                      Government with IDA assistance'
Loan Committee:                           September 14, 1994
Appraisal:                                September-October 1994
Negotiations:                             March 23-24, 1995
Planned Date of Effectiveness:            May 31, 1995
Closing Date:                             October 31, 1997
Section II:          Special Conditions
1.    Tranches. The proposed Credit of US$70 million is to be disbursed in three
tranches of US$30 million, US$15 million, and US$25 million, respectively. The
first tranche will be available for disbursement upon credit effectiveness. The second
tranche is expected to be released after ten months following the release of the first
tranche and the third tranche is expected after another ten months.
2.    Second Tranche. In addition to ensuring a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (see Annex 5) and satisfactory progress in carrying out the
Program, the Government has, before the release of the second tranche:
(a)    completed the sale or liquidation of at least 14 enterprises as provided
in the Program including at least 4 medium-sized enterprises;
This report is based on the findings of the prepation, pre-apprisl, and appraiul missions to Ghan led
by Kazi M. Matin in 1993 and 1994. Participants in thc missions and key contributors tD the report
include: Hakan Wilson (PSD) on Privatization, Asad Aln (AF4CO) on Cocoa, Hans Doehmer
(AF4CO) on Public Service, Sibabrata Ds (AF4CO) on Projections, and Santiago Montenegr (AF4CO)
on Public Expenditure. Contrbutions were also made by consultants C. Joubert, R. ICbria, G.
Leadbeatr, and S. Graubart.



- 80 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
(b)   completed and delivered to the Association, the study referred to in the
Program regarding the liberalization of cocoa export marketing;
(c)   increased during fiscal year 1995, by at least 10 percent, in real terms
based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (i) recurrent
non-wage expenditures and (ii) development expenditures for the
following sub-sectors: (1) basic education, (2) primary health, and (3)
rural infrastructure;
(d)   completed the assessment of the contracting system employed by the
Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry of Works and
Housing, and designed a revised contracting system, satisfactory to the
Association, consistent with the results of such assessment and the
objectives set forth in the Program;
(e)   implemented an expenditure monitoring system in the Ministries of
Finance, Roads and Highways, Works and Housing, Education, Health,
and Information, satisfactory to the Association, meeting the objectives
set forth in the Program; and
(f)   designed an accounting system, satisfactory to the Association, meeting
the objectives set out in the Program for use by the six ministries listed
in para. 61(e) above.
3.    Third Tranche. In addition to ensuring a macroeconomic policy framework
consistent with the objectives of the Program, described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (see Annex 5) and satisfactory progress in carrying out the
Program, the Government has, before the release of the third tranche:
(a)   completed the sale or liquidation of at least 24 enterprises as provided
in the Program, provided that such 24 enterprises taken together with
the 14 enterprises referred to in para. 61 (a) above include at least 14
medium-sized enterprises;
(b)   offered for sale:
the company to which the assets of the Telecommunications
Division of the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation have been transferred; and
-     at least two of the following three enterprises: Mim Timber
Company Limited, State Insurance Corporation of Ghana, and
State Housing Corporation;
(c) increased during the fiscal year 1996, by at least 20 percent, in real
terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (i)



- 81 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
recurrent non-wage expenditures, and (ii) development expenditures for
the following sub-sectors: (1) basic education, (2) primary health, and
(3) rural infrastructure, and thereafter has at least maintained such level
of actual expenditures;
(d)   implemented in the Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Ministry
of Works and Housing the revised contracting system referred to in
para. 61(d) above;
(e)   implemented the expenditure monitoring system in at least another 10
ministries (in addition to the six referred to in para. 61(e) above)
responsible for at least 30 percent of allocations in its most recent
annual budget; and
(f)   implemented the accounting system referred to in para. 61(f) above in
the six ministries listed in para. 61(e) above.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 236Dc'
3                            7-                                                          v                                
BURKINA FASO 
UPP ,ER -                                                                 GHANA
-  |V S  ,r ,\PRIMARY ROADS
yi. _N__.-)  ,                   )'hloslo        . '  )                                  SECONDARY ROADS
0F                 WA      7onoCk  , *       f                           tF        k>moc      /          /?                -   - TERTIARY ROADS
- 0  -                   -                6heg*  RAILWAYS
-      REGION HEADQUARTERS
NORTHERN                            S Og'                                  NATIONAL CAPrTAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
ZaSh-     _oo/} -fobUD\ ,g ?  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
COTE   \\ 8                        -        J--                  -- /__ |P                             0
D'IVOIRE  )<iA
/ J   .  . )   fiR~~ONG-AHAFo                                              _ 
to   a  20  30  60  2OOLsf
/    , ! '          =                         -                X             <,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ro  0) 610  aa6nleTE9
()   \S7   Rx ~~~ASHANTI'-  %fr
KU 1  tuMAs,y-              j          _    -_        g  X " \TOGO
>WESTER                   .¢.'--                               >\\    -40REATER
\ . 1 ,) \ } A~~~~CCPAACCRA
Thi.mop h.,s bnp       by
The World Bon   tt     ly
for 1ts  onvenience of  od.rs
CQOkST                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inter,I wIe of TheWorld Boo,k
J.-                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G,o,,pTh. deon"inah.on  wed
god  the  bogodoies sl,o-n
o t s ap do  ioriSpy, on the
part ofThe World Book Gnop,p
onp j.d"eont on the legal
eklotf a an,y ielmrntorf Or 
I. .-                                                                                                    -   ooI            I
FEBRUARY 1992












