Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18638
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2718-GH)
November 30, 1998
Private Sector and Finance
Economic Management and Social Policy Department
AFRICA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit: Cedi
US$1 = Cedi 2,320 (February, 1998)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1-December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOG       -     Bank of Ghana
BPEMS   -       Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
DCA       -     Development Credit Agreement
DIC       -     Divestiture Implementation Committee
EDP       -     Entrepreneurship Development Program
ERP       -     Economic Recovery Program
ERSO      -     Economic Reform Support Operation
GPTC      -     Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
KFW       -     Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau
IDA       -     International Development Association
ME        -     Micro Enterprise
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MRH       -     Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTEF    -       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MWH       -     Ministry of Works and Housing
PEPTA    -      Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance
PETA      -     Public Enterprise Technical Assistance
PSAC      -     Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PSD       -     Private Sector Development
PUFMARP -    Public Financial Management Reform Project
SEC       -     State Enterprises Commission
SHC       -     State Housing Corporation
SIC       -     State Insurance Corporation
SME       -     Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE       -     State-owned Enterprise
Vice President                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                 Peter Harrold
Sector Manager                   Thomas W. Allen
Task Team Leader                 Gerard Byarn



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ................................................i -iv
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................1
A. Background ...............................................1
B. Statement of Project Objectives and Evaluation of Design ................ ............2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program ...............................................X7
(a) Implementation Capacity ...............................................X7
(b) Defects in the original design ................................................8
E. Implementation Record ................................................9
F. Program  Sustainability ...............................................9
G. Bank Performance ............................................... 10
H. Borrower Performance ...............................................                                  10
I.  Assessment of Outcome ............................................... 10
J. Future Operations ...............................................                                     11
K. Key Lessons Learned ...............................................                                  11
PART  II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...............................................                               13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...............................................                          13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits ...............................................                   14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...............................................                              15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and
Actual Disbursements ................                  ............................... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 16
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                      17
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                   19
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                       19
PART III: APPENDXES ............................................... 20
APPENDIX  I ............................................... 21
APPENDIX II ...............................................                                                24
APPENDIX  III ............................................... 34
MAP ...............................................                                                         40



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector
Adjustment Credit in Ghana for which IDA Credit 2718-GH in the amount of SDR 46.9
million (US$70 million equivalent) was approved on July 25, 1995 and made effective on
September 20, 1995.
The credit was closed on April 30, 1998. As of April 30, 1998, the credit was
fully disbursed. The credit was co-financed by Japan, through OECF, with a grant of
US$59.9 million and by the Federal Republic of Germany with a credit from
Kreditwnstalt fur Weideraufbau (KFW) for approximately US$26.8 million.
The ICR was prepared by John Byamukama with the guidance of Gerard Byam,
Task Manager for the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) project, and Oliver
Campbell -White. It is based on material in the project files. In addition to commenting
on the draft ICR, the Borrower also contributed its own evaluation of the project's
preparation and execution, which is attached as an appendix to the ICR. The
memorandum for the release of the third tranche is also attached as an appendix.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of PSAC were to: (i) accelerate the divestiture of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs); (ii) create a macroeconomic environment that would generate the
investment necessary to raise real GDP growth to 5.5 percent in 1997 and to attain an
annual inflation rate not exceeding 5 percent; and (iii) support the improvement of public
expenditure management, including the poverty-orientation of public expenditure.
2.    The objectives of PSAC were adequate and responsive to tfhe needs of Ghana,
especially at a time when the Government sought to further reduce its role in the services
and productive sectors and to signal its strong commitment to enhancing the role of the
private sector in the economy. Although the program design had specific and quantifiable
targets set for the different stages of project implementation upon which the release of the
second and third tranches were based, a major setback was the lack of emphasis on the
quality of the privatization transactions and the definition of what constituted a successful
divestiture.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The Borrower made satisfactory progress in improving the macroeconomic
framework, in accelerating the pace of privatization, and in improving the management
and poverty-orientation of public expenditure. The Government's main policy focus was
to improve fiscal performance and by 1997 there was improved budgetary and monetary
management which led to a significant fiscal turnaround. This helped in slowing down
inflation, improving the macroeconomic environment and advancing the structural reform
agenda. The domestic primary surplus reached 3.3 percent of GDP and inflation was
brought down to 28.5 percent from 45.6 percent in 1996. Non-wage expenditures in
primary health care, basic education and rural infrastructure were raised in real terms by
288 per cent, 103 per cent and 266 per cent, respectively, in the 1994-1996 period. In



- ii -
addition, the Ministry of Roads and Highways introduced in May 1996 a computer-based
monthly Contract Information System to strengthen the management of its multi-year
contracts.
4.    A limited expenditure monitoring system envisaged by PSAC was also introduced
and this has since evolved into an integrated public financial management system with
sub-systems covering budget preparation, budget implementation, accounting, cash
management, debt management, revenue management, auditing and procurement. This more
comprehensive system is supported by the IDA-financed Public Financial Management
Reform Project. The process involved is complex and long term, but the initial steps have
been taken and progress on implementing that project is satisfactory. Under PSAC, a
medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for priority sectors which will form the
basis for annual budgeting was prepared and had been launched by June 1998. In
addition, a new computer-based budget and public expenditure management system
(BPEMS' has been designed and invitations to tender for software have been sent out.
5.    The privatization component ran into unforeseen implementation delays. Of the
149 enterprises that were handed over to the Divestiture Implementation Committee
(DIC) for divestiture, 50 enterprises had been privatized or liquidated as of February 1998
(see Appendix III), of which 16 were medium sized. Although this was in line with the
F'SAC target of selling or liquidating at least 48 small and medium SOEs during the
pirogran period, of which 14 were medium sized, it took a year longer to achieve. Among
the four large and strategic enterprises, only Ghana Telecom was privatized. DIC decided
in early 1998 to outsource the divestiture of Mim Timber following the collapse of
negotiations with the original owner of Mim Timber for the return of the property. At the
same time, private firms were contracted to prepare State Housing Corporation (SHC)
and State Insurance Corporation (SIC) for privatization and the transactions are expected
to be completed before the end of 1998. The outsourcing of Mim Timber, SIC and SHC
shows that the Government has begun an irreversible divestiture process, with the
outsourcing contracts covering the full process from enterprise appraisal to completion of
sales contracts.
6.    The estimated cost of the project was US$143 million of which IDA was to
provide US$70 million, Japan was to provide a grant of about US$56 million through
CIECF, and the Federal Republic of Germany was to provide a credit for approximately
US$17 million from Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau (KFW). The actual cost of the
project was US$156.7 million of which US$70 million was provided by IDA, US$59.9
million was from OECF and US$26.8 million was from KFW The IDA Credit became
effective on September 20, 1995 upon which the first tranche of US$30 million was
released. The second tranche of US$15 million which was supposed to be released 10
mLonths later was released in December 1996 due to the unfavorable macroeconomic



- 111 -
conditions and delays in completing the number of divestitures specified in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The third and last tranche of US$25 million was
released in April 1998. Because of the delays in releasing the second and third tranches,
the closing date of the Credit was extended from October 31, 1997 to April 30, 1998.
Three IDA reflows of SDR 3.2 million, SDR 2.4 million and SDR 1.7 million in October
1996, July 1997 and August 1998 respectively were associated with this Credit.
7.    The Bank's performance in the preparation and supervision of PSAC was
satisfactory. The Bank allowed intensive Borrower participation at the design stage, even
though this was a time-consuming process. It also carried on continuous dialogue with
the Borrower during the implementation period, putting in 21 weeks of supervision for
the period September 1995 to February 1998, of which 3 weeks were spent in the field.
Effectively, PSAC received considerably more than the documented 21 weeks of
supervision as the privatization component was also being reviewed during the Public
Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PEPTA) supervision missions.
However, the Bank could have been more specific at the design stage by spelling out
what it considered a completed (and successful) divestiture rather than merely focusing
on the number of completed divestitures. The Bank was also not coordinated in its policy
regarding the preparation of enterprises for privatization. For example, while the PSAC
was focusing on the privatization of the State Insurance Corporation (SIC), the Non-Bank
Financial Institutions Project was proposing to finance the restructuring of the SIC. This
gave conflicting signals to the Borrower.
8.    The performance of the Borrower at the preparation stage was satisfactory as
evidenced by the useful feedback they provided during program design. The Borrower's
performance in the implementation of the macroeconomic policy framework component
was also satisfactory, however, after significant delays. The Borrower's performance in
the implementation of the privatization component of the program was less than
satisfactory. The implementation capacity was weak leading to delays both in the
appointment of outsourcing consultants and initiating actions on the preparation of the
large strategic enterprises for sale.
9.    The outcome of PSAC is rated satisfactory because the project achieved its
objectives. Despite some delays in the divestiture process, all the components of the
project were effectively implemented resulting in a substantial reduction of government
ownership of commercial enterprises and improved public expenditure management.
Furthermore, the project has signaled stronger government commitment to enhancing the
role of the private sector in the economy. Actions implemented under PSAC are likely to
be sustainable.



-iv -
Fquture Operations
10.   The Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) program was approved by the
EBoard in June 1998. It provided balance of payments support and created the foundations
for the next phase of difficult and complex reforms in the areas of privatization, public
sector reform, public expenditure management, and restructuring of the energy and cocoa
sectors. Specifically, under the privatization component, the focus to the divestiture of the
large economically significant enterprises. This will be followed by another adjustment
credit (ERSO II) which wou!d address the remaining agenda in privatization and the
restructuring of both the cocoa and energy sectors.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Several main lessons can be drawn from the experience of this operation:
(i)   Emphasizing the need for quality privatizations.  The success of a
privatization program should not only be measured by the number of
divestitures completed, but also on the quality of the divestitures. To the
extent that quantitative privatization targets will be required for these
operations, distinct improvements are required in defining, and agreeing in
advance, how performance is to be measured specifically. The
implementing agency should also ensure that the p.ocess is widely
publicized so as to generate a lot of interest and thus attract as 'many
competitive bidders as possible. The selected buyers should be committed
to returning the enterprises to viability. At the same time, the buyers
should be capable and willing to meet their outstanding obligations arising
out of the sale transactions. Compliance on payment obligations can be
achieved by writing default clauses into the sales contracts and invoking
these clauses when default occurs. This mechanism would minimize the
number of divestitures that would need to be canceled, an action which
sets tht privatization clock backwards, and would also save on the
resources spent on the supervision of the project.
(ii)   Privatization is a complex process. Privatization of SOEs is a complicated
process that involves many facets. These include, among others, the
management of the privatization process, development of implementation
capacity, capital market development, creating political consensus on the
benefits of privatization and ironing out policy issues that could hamper
the progress of privatization.



(iii)  Privatization requires more intense supervision. Being a complex process,
privatization requires more intense supervision than other adjustment
operations. The combination of PSAC and PEPTA was very helpfiul as the
two projects were conducted and coordinated as one operation with some
mutual conditionalities, which effectively meant more supervision time for
the PSAC privatization component.
(iv) PSAC as a catalyst for moving the privatization program ahead. Decisions
about privatization can cause political controversy and are therefore
politically difficult to make. However, those decisions are not impossible
to make. PSAC was basically a balance of payment support operation, but
it gave the Government the necessary incentive to build political
consensus about the need to push ahead with the privatization program.



PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
12.   The Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) provided balance of payments
financing in support of the Government's program to promote private sector growth by
accelerating the pace of privatization and by maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework. The latter included improved management and poverty-orientation of
public expenditures. The program was aimed at increasing the efficiency and level of
investment in the Ghanaian economy and thus permitting an acceleration of growth.
While PSAC was aimed at providing the incentive and a conducive environment for
private sector development, a parallel operation, the Public Enterprise and Privatization
Technical Assistance (PEPTA), was set up to support the actual implementation of the
privatization program. The two operations were designed to build on the groundwork laid
by the Public Enterprise Technical Assistance Project (PETA) which supported the
restructuring of state-owned enterprises into viable entities and provided advisory
services for implementing the first phase of the divestiture program.
13.   Although Ghana's Economic Recovery Program enjoyed substantial success in
the seven years following its adoption in 1983, higher than planned public spending in
1991 worsened fiscal imbalances and increased inflationary pressures. The fiscal balance
which had shown a surplus of 1.5 percent of GDP in 1991 deteriorated to a deficit of 10.4
percent of GDP in 1996 and the domestic financing of the budget rose to 5.1 percent of
GDP, which increased interest payments and kept nominal and real interest rates high.
Annual inflation also rose from 18.0 percent in 1991 to 45.6 percent in 1996.
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators, 1991-97
(in percent)
Indicator                FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
GDPgrowthrate            5.3    3.9    5.0    3.8    4.5    5.2    3.0
Budget deficit (percent of GDP)'  1.5   -10.4   -9.3   -6.7   -10.4   -8.6
Annual inflation (period average) 18.0   10.1   25.0   24.9   59.5   45.6   28.5
M2 growth                27.2   50.3   27.4   46.2   37.5   34.3   36.9
Source: Government of Ghana
Including grants



14.   In 1988 the Government initiated a program to divest 260 state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) that were either owned directly by the Government or through state-owned banks
where the Government had majority shareholding. Between 1989 and March 1995, only
74 SOEs were divested; a pace that was due mainly to weak administrative capacity
within the Government, slowness in taking necessary administrative decisions, and an ad
hoc and non-transparent divestiture process. As a result, transaction costs were high and
outcomes were unpredictable, undermining investor interest.  There were no clear
procedures for selecting SOEs for divestiture or for determining the role of ministries or
algencies in the implementation proc. 3s.   The Secretariat for the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC), charged with implementing divestiture, lacked
sufficient staff and skills to implement the process more expeditiously. In addition, the
Government initially saw divestiture as a means of reducing the fiscal burden by
liquidating SOEs. Subsequently, there was a gradual recognition that the sale of SOEs to
private sector entrepreneurs could also improve efficiency and promote the growth of the
private sector. This led to a desire to accelerate the pace of divestiture.
15.   Following the 1996 elections, the Government formulated a new economic program
which focused on improving fiscal perfornance. As a result, macroeconomic performance
improved in 1997. Real GDP grew by 3.0 percent in 1997, the fiscal deficit (excluding grants)
w,as reduced to 11. I percent of GDP in 1997 and inflation was brought down to 28.5 percent.
16.   In 1998, the Government began implementation of the next phase of policy
reforms with the support of an Economic Reform Support Operation, a new adjustment
credit, that was approved by the Board in June 1998. This new phase will include difficult
and complex reforms in the areas of public sector reform, public expenditure
management, infrastructure (to promote increased private participation) and the cocoa
sector. In February, two major policy initiatives were implemented: (i) legislation for the
implementation of a value added tax (VAT) was passed; and (ii) the newly created Public
Utilities Regulatory Commission announced a 90 percent adjustment in water and
electricity tariffs.
B. Statement of Project Objectives and Evaluation of Design
17.   Statement of Objectives. PSAC was a three tranche adjustment credit which
aimed to support the Government's program to promote private sector growth by
accelerating the pace of privatization and by maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic
framework, including improvements in the management and poverty-orientation of public
expenditures. The first tranche was to be released upon effectiveness of the credit. The
second and third tranches were to be released at 1 0-month intervals following
effectiveness, subject to the fulfillment by the Government of specific conditionalities
laid out in the Development Credit Agreement.



-3 -
18.   Specifically, the objectives of PSAC were:
* Improved public expenditure management. This would involve the rationalization of the
development budget in order to improve the overall efficiency and growth of the
economy, including a public campaign about the quality and targets of the public
investment programme. There would also be better planning of the recurrent budget
along with the introduction of variance analysis to assess the departure of actual from
budget allocations, and thus facilitate quick corrective actions. The comprnhensive public
expenditure management would be supported by the IDA-financed Public Financial
Management Reform Project (PUFMARP).
*  Accelerated divestiture of SOEs.  This would include a more transparent set of
procedures for divestiture of SOEs (fully disseminated to the public), the use of private
firms to implement privatization on behalf of the Divestiture Implementation Committee
(DIC) and the Government, the use of uniform procedures by both DIC and the private
implementing firms and the greater participation of all Ghanaians in the divestiture
process. Divestiture targets were set to include the sale or liquidation of a total of 48
small and medium SOEs out of the pre-specified list of 110 enterprises and the pre-
privatizdtion preparation for four large and strategic SOEs, of which three would be
offered for sale within the program period2.  In addition, the divestiture component
sought to develop Ghanaian consensus on private participation in cocoa export marketing
and on ways to introduce such participation. The program included a study on the scope,
method and potential impact of cocoa export liberalization.
-  To generate the investment necessary to raise real GDP growth to S.5 percent in 1997
and to attain an annual inflation rate not exceeding 5 percent. The Government realized
that a stable and viable macroeconomic policy framework is a pre-condition for sustained
private sector growth. This stability would be achieved through further fiscal adjustment,
including revenue raising measures, reduction of the civil service while training and
emunerating the retained staff better, introduction of expenditure monitoring system and
poverty-orientation of expenditures.
19.   Evaluation. The concept and design of PSAC were adequate and in line with the
Flank's country assistance strategy which aimed at helping the Government to achieve its
objectives of faster growth and poverty reduction. The Government hoped to achieve
these objectives through restoration and maintenance of macroeconomic stability and
implementation of the unfinished policy agenda for private sector development. Thus,
PSAC was designed as the first of three adjustment operations planned to support the
policy reform agenda for private sector development. The subsequent two operations
would support further privatization, the restructuring of the cocoa and petroleum sectors,
public service restructuring and the remaining financial sector reforms.
2   The original PSAC list consisted of 114 enterprises: 46 medium-size SOEs, 64 small SOEs, and 4 large and
strategic SOEs. The large SOEs included Ghana Telecom, State Insurance Corporation, State Housing



-4 -
20.   Over the last eight years, the Government has changed its attitude towards the
private sector and has sought them out as partners. The initial relationship between the
Government and the private sector was one of mutual suspicion. A public/private sector
dialogue was initiated under the Private Sector Advisory Group in 1991 and the dialogue
has been broadened and strengthened through the Private Sector Roundtable. The latter
comprised of representatives from Government, Ghanaian entrepreneurs and academia
who met regularly to discuss relevant policy issues; areas discussed include, among
others, macroeconomic stability, privatization, technology development, human capital
development, financial sector liberalization, and legal and financial infrastructure
development. The p licy reforms supported by PSAC were identified as a result of this
dialogue.
21.   A significant number of up-front actions were required prior to negotiations of the
Credit as proof of Government's commitment to the actions stated in its Letter of
Development Policy. In addition, specific and quantifiable targets were set for the
different stages of project implementition upon which the release of the second and third
tranches were based. While this was meant to make the monitoring of program
implementation easy, a major weakness was the lack of emphasis on the quality of the
privatization transactions (including the economic impact) and the definition of what
constituted a successful divestiture. As a result, monitoring of program implementation
proved cumbersome as the Government and the Bank disagreed on the definition of a
completed divestiture.
22.   The risks facing the program were identified at the design stage, taking into
account Ghana's past experience with adjustment operations. The risks were evaluated
and deemed to be manageable. Most notable was the expected resistance to privatization
from SOE workers. At the design stage, this risk was considered manageable in view of
the large end-of-service benefits for SOE workers, the ease with which the retrenched
ci il servants in 1990 and 1991 were absorbed into the economy, and to a lesser extent,
the assumption that most SOEs would be sold as going concerns and many would
retrench only a small part of their workforce. However, there were no specific provisions
for the funding of end-of-service benefits. Generally, the design of PSAC underestimated
the difficulties involved in achieving the privatization targets and there was no estimation
of the economic impact of the privatization. For example, there was no estimate of the
economic value of the enterprises to be privatized or the number of employees whose
services could be terminated following the divestitures. An impact assessment study ex
postfacto was included in the PEPTA project and is ongoing.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
23.   Overall, the objectives of the project were achieved. The Borrower made
satisfactory progress in improving the macroeconomic framework, in accelerating the
Corporation and Mim Timber. During the course of PSAC's implementation, the divestiture list was expanded
to 149 enterprises.



-5-
pace of privatization, and in improving the management and poverty-orientation of public
expenditure.
24.   Attaining macroeconomic stability. Ghana's political liberalization during 1992-
96 was marked by growing fiscal difficulties. Higher than planned public spending
worsened fiscal imbalances and increased inflationary pressures. The domestic primary
balance deteriorated from a surplus of 0.8 percent of CDP in 1994 to 0.3 percent in 1996
causing a crowding out of private sector access to credit. Annual inflation increased from
25 percent in 1994 to 45.6 percent in 1996. Against this macroeconomic setting, the
Government began to formulate a new economic program after the 1996 elections.
25.   Beginning in 1997, the Government's main policy focus was to improve fiscal
performance. The year recorded improved budgetary and monetary management which
led to a significant fiscal turnaround. This helped in slowing down inflation, the
improvement of the macroeconomic environment and advancing the structural reform
agenda. The domestic primary surplus reached 3.3 percent of GDP and inflation was
brought down to 28.5 percent. Macroeconomic stabilization was achieved largely
through expenditure restraint, with non-interest spending falling by 4.6 percentage points
of GDP and the wage bill declining by 0.5 percent of GDP. In addition, the Government
continued to improve the efficiency and buoyancy of the tax system. Specifically, it
removed the number of exemptions, advising that any customs exemptions must be
approved by Parliament, and duty-free imports under public and donor-funded projects
were substantially reduced. Nevertheless, revenue fell by 1.6 percentage points of GDP,
mainly on account of lower collections of petroleum taxes and, to a lesser extent, due to a
drop in cocoa export duties because of a decrease in the volume of exports. In February
1998 a Value Added Tax (VAT) law was passed by Parliament and effective December
1998, VAT will replace the present sales and services tax.
26.  In 1996, Bank of Ghana (BOG) discontinued its practice of issuing Treasury Bills in
retail auctions and, in 1997, discontinued the practice of tapping sales for small investors.
Government paper is instead being issued in wholesale auctions and BOG is developing a
network of primary dealers. Monetary policy continued to be dominated by the Government's
large financing requirements and broad money increase was estimated at 41 percent. However,
the Government's domestic financing needs for 1998 are projected to be much lower than in
1997 and broad money is expected to grow by about 18 percent and in line with the growth of the
economy thereafter. Based on these projections, annual inflation is expected to decline to about
19 percent by the end of 1998.
27.   In the external sector, declining export receipts from cocoa and gold in 1997 were
more than offset by lower import levels resulting from tighter financial policies. The
current account deficit (excluding grants) as a share of GDP narrowed from 8.3 percent
in 1996 to 6.7 percent in 1997 and is projected at 7 percent in 1998. Increased external
grants and positive net capital flows during 1997 led to a small surplus in the overall
balance of payments (US$25 million). However, gross international reserves fell below
three months of imports equivalent as the BOG reduced its external liabilities.



- 6 -
28.   Public expenditure management. Non-wage expenditures in primary health care,
basic education and rural infrastructure were raised in real terms by 288 per cent, 103 per
cent and 266 per cent, respectively, in the 1994-1996 period. Data for 1997 are not yet
available. However, the 1997 budget provided for a maintenance of expenditures at 1996
levels. The Ministry of Roads and Highways introduced in May 1996 a computer-based
monthly Contract Information System to strengthen the management of its multi-year
contracts. The new contracting system has been implemented with the publication of a
notice formally increasing tender board limits. In addition, a limited expenditure
monitoring system envisaged by PSAC was introduced and this has since evolved into an
initegrated public financial management system with sub-systems covering budget
preparation, budget implementation, accounting, cash management, debt management,
revenue management, auditing and procurement. This more comprehensive system is
supported by the IDA-financed Public Financial Management Reform Project. The
process involved is complex and long term, but the initial steps have been taker. and
progress on implementing that project is satisfactory.
29.   A medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for priority sectors which will
form the basis for annual budgeting was prepared and had been launched by June 1998 .
In addition, a new computer-based budget and public expenditure management system
(]3PEMS) has been designed and invitations to tender for software have been sent out.
Phased implementation will begin in 1998 with the start of software customization and
training of staff, and the BPEMS is expected to be fully operational for the budget cycle
for the calendar year 2000.
30.   Accelerated privatization. The privatization component ran into unforeseen
irnplementation delays. Of the 149 enterprises that were handed over to DIC for
divestiture, 50 enterprises had been privatized or liquidated as of February 1998 (see
Appendix III), of which 16 were medium sized. Although this was in line with the PSAC
target of selling or liquidating at least 48 small and mediunm SOEs during the program
period, of which 14 were medium sized, it took a year longer than had been envisaged.
Among the four large and strategic enterprises, a strategic investor acquired a 30% stake
in, and management control, of Ghana Telecom. Separately, the Government also granted
a license to a second national operator for the private provision of basic telephony
services. These two developments, taken together, meant the effective privatization of
Ghana's telecom services even though the offer for sale of Ghana Telecom was not
strictly in accordance with the agreed definition of the term (i.e. the sale, through
competitive bidding, of at least 51% of the Government's shares).
31.   Progress on the divestiture of the other named strategic enterprises, Mim Timber,
SIC and SHC, was slower than expected. The divestiture of Mim Timber was outsourced
at the beginning of 1998 following the collapse of negotiations with the original owner
for the return of the property. The divestiture of SIC and SHC has also been outsourced
but, because of the size of both companies and the complicated legal issues that needed to
be addressed as part of their divestiture, the privatizations will not be completed before
the second half of 1998. Some of these complications had not been fully appreciated at



-7-
the time of appraisal. However, the outsourcing of SIC and SHC shows that the
Government has begun an irreversible divestiture process, since the outsourcing contracts
cover the full process from enterprise appraisal to completion of sales contracts.
32.   The study on the external marketing of Ghana's cocoa was carried out in 1995/96
and presented to the Government in June 1996.3 The study was intended to provide the
basis for policy and institutional reforms concerning cocoa exports. It assessed the
existing export marketing arrangements in Ghana, compared these with arrangements in
other major cocoa and coffee exporting countries, and presented several options for
consideration by policy makers. Since then, the share of the FOB price going to farnners
has been increased several times, and additional private operators have been licensed to
engage in domestic cocoa marketing. Seeking to embed decisions on cocoa export policy
in a broader sectoral context than that provided in the 1996 study, the Government has
recently established a task force to review all aspects of the Ghanaian cocoa industry with
the objective of defining a longer-term strategy for the subsector.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program
33.   The key factors which affected the implementation of the program were largely
due to the weak capacity to manage the divestiture process and, to some extent, defects in
the original design of PSAC.
(a) Implementation Capacity
(i)   Weak Organization at DIC. Although the DIC received technical assistance
personnel from the UK's DFID (formerly the ODA) and other technical
assistance from the IDA-financed PETA and PEPTA, the overall capacity
to manage the program remained weak. Specifically, the assistance
provided by PEPTA was not as effective as expected. It was very difficult
to get data on completed transactions, transaction files were not readily
available and in many cases enterprises counted as completed divestitures
by DIC were found to be incomplete by supervision missions. In addition,
sales agreements for many divestiture transactions were not signed by the
Chairman of the DIC Board as required by law. From the outset, DIC did
not have a mechanism in place to ensure timely payments of the agreed
installments by the buyers and immediate follow-up in the case of default.
As such, a lot of buyers were in default for a number of years and DIC only
hired a collection lawyer at the end of 1997 to enforce compliance. In
addition, routine public reporting on the diVestiture progress was
inadequate. These factors contributed to the delay in meeting some of the
conditions for the release of both the second and third tranches.
LMC International, "The External Marketing of Ghana's Cocoa" (2 vols.). Prepared for the Ministry of Finance;
Oxford, England, June 1996.



- 8 -
(ii)  Systemic issues. The design of PSAC had envisaged that private sector
companies (merchant banks, consulting companies, legal and auditing
firms) would implement most of the privatization transactions on contract
to the Government. However, the appointment of outsourcing consultants
to carry out the divestiture process on behalf of DIC took much longer
than originally envisaged. Although the register of consultants to be used
in outsourcing was compiled in mid-1995, the first divestiture consultancy
appointments were made in the second quarter of 1996 and the first
outsourced divestiture was completed in January 1998. This was not in
line with the program design, where the outsourcing process was supposed
to be an effort to harness the drive and energy of the private sector's
marketing capacity. As it turned out, for the first two years, DIC took on
the divestiture process almost single-handedly, a task for which it did not
possess the required capacity. Moreover, the DIC legislation did not give
DIC sufficient powers as the body with the sole responsibility for
divestiture of SOEs.
Another systemic problem was that of legal and land title issues. Many transactions
involved transfer of land and although some of the buyers paid to acquire the land and
took possession, legal documentation to support the transfer of title was frequently not
available. This constrained the work of DIC and later, the outsourcing consultants. The
land title problem is a system wide issue and was difficult to handle on a transaction by
transaction basis. The Government should have addressed this problem upfront as a
matter of policy.
(iii)   Failure to follow the agreed divestiture procedures. Although the new
divestiture procedures manual was introduced on April 22, 1996, there
were subsequent divestitures where these procedures were not followed.
(b) Defects in the original design
(i)  Emphasis on number of completed divestitures without regard to quality.
The design of the program focused primarily on the number of completed
divestitures without sufficient regard to the quality of the transactions. The
design did not ensure that there would be measures to stimulate interest in
the process, attract as many competitors as possible in the bidding and
ascertain the willingness and ability of the winning bidders to invest in the
enterprises. As a result, there was a rush on the part of the Borrower to
complete transactions in order to meet the conditionality on the number of
divestitures completed. A large number of transactions have ended up with
the buyers defaulting on payments; some buyers have been in default for
several years. This has meant that DIC could not complete post divestiture
actions, and some of the divestitures which had been considered complete



-9 -
during the second and third tranche releases have since been suspended4.
Additionally, in an effort to satisfy the 'numbers' requirement, the
Borrower presented the sales of subsidiaries or branches of companies as
separate divestitures. In most cases, only the parent company had been
listed in the original PSAC list, the assumption being that the sale of the
company and its subsidiaries or branches would constitute a single
divestiture. The process of sorting out which divestitures were acceptable
to IDA as per the DCA definition consumed a lot of staff time during the
supervision missions.
The focus on meeting quantitative targets diverted much of DIC's activities and resources
into completing small, troublesome sales and away from preparing for the larger, more
important ones. The PSAC conditions arguably inserted some distortions into DIC's own
allocation of effort and resource, though it is possible that DIC's performance might not
have been any better without the conditions in place.
E. Implementation Record
34.   As ment' -ned earlier, the project called for a significant number of up.lont actions
prior to negotiation of the Credit. Most of these were agreements on policy issues or
action plans which were taken care of prior to the negotiations. The rest were completion
of sale of 10 enterprises to the private sector and invitation of bids to register private
firms for award of contracts to implement the divestiture of SOEs.
35.   The second tranche of the Credit(of US$15 million) whose release had originally
been scheduled for July 1996, ten months after the Credit became effective, was released
in December 1996. The release of the third tranche (of US$25 million) which should
have been in October 1997 (ten months after December 1996), was not effected until
April 1998. The slippages resulted from weak macroeconomic performance, delays in
completing the targeted number of divestitures and issues that emerged in the divestiture
process for the completed transactions.
F. Program Sustainability
36.   PSAC's sustainability is measured by the irreversibility of the reforms it
supported. The macroeconomic and public sector reform components are directly linked.
The Government's ability to maintain its e--penditure targets in the social sectors and for
poverty related initiatives will depend to a large extent on macroeconomic performance.
Adherence to the targets will be difficult if unplanned expenditures begin to strain the
fiscal budget. Improvements in the management and poverty-orientation of public
expenditure are supported by a parallel technical assistance credit, the Public Financial
4   Among the suspended divestiture transactions are the sale of Automotive and Technical Services (Sabat Motors).



- 10-
Management Reform Project. The divestiture component of PSAC is sustainable since it
entails a once and for all (and irreversible) transfer of assets to the private sector.
G. Bank Performance
37.   The Bank's performance in the preparation and supervision of PSAC was
satis:factory. There was intensive Borrower participation at the design stage, even though
this was a time-consuming process. It also carried on continuous dialogue with the
Borrower during the implementation period, putting in 21 weeks of supervision for the
period September 1995 to February 1998. Effectively, PSAC received considerably more
than the documented 21 weeks of supervision as the privatization component was also
being reviewed during PEPTA supervision missions.
38.   However, the Bank could have been more specific at the design stage by spelling
out what it considered a completed (and successful) divestiture rather than merely
focusing on the number of completed divestitures. For example, the DCA should have
state,d upfront that for a divestiture to be considered complete, the buyer must have paid
at least 50 percent of the purchase price. In addition, the Bank did not discuss and agree
with the Government on the composition of the original list of 114 enterprises. As it
turned out, there were only 108 actual enterprises and the rest were duplications. There
was also lack of coordination within the Bank. For example, while PSAC required the
immediate divestiture of the State Insurance Corporation (SIC), a parallel technical
assistance credit was financing its restructuring.
H. Borrower Performance
39.   The performance of the Borrower at the preparation stage was satisfactory. The
Borrower's performance in the implementation of the macroeconomic policy framework
component was generally satisfactory, although there were some fiscal slippages in 1996
and the first half of 1997. Measures were taken beginning with the second half of 1997 to
reverse this situation. However, the Borrower's performance in the implementation of the
privatization component of the program was less than satisfactory. As mentioned above,
implementation capacity was weak leading to delays both in the appointment of
outsourcing consultants and initiating actions on the preparation of the large strategic
enterprises for sale. The issue of implementation capacity is to be addressed during the
mid-term review of PEPTA which is scheduled for early 1999.
I. Assessment of Outcome
40.   The outcome of the Credit is rated satisfactory because the project achieved its
objectives. Despite some delays in the divestiture process, all the components of the
project were effectively implemented resulting in substantial reduction of government
ownership of commercial enterprises and the associated fiscal saving. Furthermore, the
project has signaled stronger government commitment to enhance the role of the private



- 11 -
sector in the economy. This satisfactory rating is also augmented by the fact that there are
already other projects in place to build on the achievements under PSAC.
J. Future Operations
41.   The Government approached the Bank seeking assistance for an Economic
Reform Support Operation which would provide balance of payment support as the
Government pursues its privatization program. The ERSO program was approved by the
Board in June 1998. Specifically, under the privatization component, the focus shifted to
the divestiture of the large economically significant utilities and enterprises. The ERSO
will be followed by another adjustment credit which would address the remaining agenda
in the privatization of SOEs and the restructuring of both the cocoa and energy sectors.
K. Key Lessons Learned
42.   Based on the experience of this Credit, several lessons can be drawn:
(i) Emphasizing the need for quality privatizations. The success of a privatization
program should not only be measured by the number of divestitures completed, but also
on the quality of the divestitures. To the extent that quantitative privatization targets will
be required for these operations, distinct improvements are required in defining, and
agreeing in advance, how performance is to be measured specifically. In the case of
PSAC, privatization was set as a target but not specifically defined. Definition is
required in several domains. PSAC progress was hampered by ambiguity in several key
areas: (a) the composition of the list of 114 enterprises was not agreed upon and the list
ended up with several duplications and inconsistencies in classification; (b) proportion of
proceeds required to be received to constitute a privatization; and (c) extent of
management control transfer required, and the extent to which this could substitute other
criteria.
The implementing agency should ensure that the process is widely publicized so as to
generate a lot of interest and thus attract as many competitive bidders as possible. The
selected buyers should be committed to returning the enterprises to viability. At the same
time, the buyers should be capable and willing to meet their outstanding obligations.
Compliance can be achieved by writing default clauses into the sales contracts and
invoking these clauses when default occurs. This mechanism would minimize the number
of divestitures that would need to be canceled, an action which sets the privatization
clock backwards, and would also save on the resources spent on the supervision of the
project.
(ii)   Privatization is a complex process. Privatization of SOEs is a complicated
process that involves many facets. These include, among others, the
management of the privatization process, development of implementation
capacity, capital market development, creating political consensus on the
benefits of privatization, and ironing out policy issues that could hamper



- 12-
the progress of privatization. In Ghana, PSAC assumed that process issues
could be resolved in a shorter period of time and the outsourcing process
was oversimplified. This led to unforeseen delays in implementing the
divestiture program. There were fundamental issues, like the legalities
involved in the transfer of land titles, which should have been addressed
on a system wide basis by the DIC instead of expecting the outsourcing
consultants to address them during the course of their duties.
(iii) Privatization requires more intense supervision. Being a complex process,
privatization requires more intense supervision than other adjustment
operations. The combination of PSAC and PEPTA was very helpful as the
two projects were conducted and coordinated as one operation with some
mutual conditionalities, which effectively meant more supervision time for
the PSAC privatization component.
(iv)  PSA C as a catalyst for moving the privatization program ahead. Decisions
about privatization can cause political controversy and are therefore
politically difficult to make. However, those decisions are not impossible to
make. PSAC was basically a balance of payment support operation, but it
gave the Government the necessary incentive to build political consensus
about the need to push ahead with the privatization program.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial         Partial         Negligible           NA
Macro Policies                                               /
Sector Policies                            /
Legal Objectives                           V
Institutional Development                                    /
Poverty Objectives                                           V
Gender Issues                                                                                   V
Other Social Objectives         .
Environmental Objectives                                                                        V/
Public Sector Management                                     V
Private Sector Development                                   /
Other
B. Project Sustainability                                  Likely           Unlikely        Uncertain
v
C. Bank Performance                                        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
Identification                                                                V/
Preparation assistance                                                         /
Appraisal
Supervision                                                                    ,
D. Borrower Performance                                     HS                 S                U
Preparation                                                                    V
Implementation                                                                 v
Covenant compliance                                                            v
E. Assessment of Outcome                   HS                S                 U               HU
Vi'
NA: Not Applicable; HS: Highly Satisfactory, S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Highly Unsatisfactory.



-14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Title                                Purpose                           CY of               Status
approval
1. Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)    *   To support the Government's structural adjustment  1987              Closed
program, which aimed to: (i) establish an incentive
framework that stimulates growth, encourages savings and
investment, and strengthens the balance of payments; and
(ii) improve resource use, particularly in the public sector,
while ensuring fiscal and monetary stability                    .
2. SAC 11                          *   To support the second phase of the Government's       1989               Closed
structural adjustment program (1989-90) which aimed to
maintain an average GDP growth rate of at least 5% per
year, raise investment to 16% of GDP by 1990 and raise
national savings to 8.5% of GDP.
3. Public Enterprises Technical    *   To provide technical assistance/institutional support to  1987           Closed
Assistance                         the SEC and DIC for the implementation of the public
enterprise reform program. It included: design and
implementation of performance monitoring and evaluation
system including performance agreements based on
corporate plans and for assessment and development of SOE
policy, institutional and legal reform, and advisory services
for implementing the divestiture program. In addition,
project funds were available to finance an SOE restructuring
fund to assist SOEs to identify restructuring measures
required to implement operational and managerial
improvements.                            -
4. Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit   *   To support reform of incentive policies, provision of  1986        Closed
finance for industrial inputs, rehabilitation and new
investments, strengthening of policy planning and project
implementation capabilities in Ministries of Industry and
Finance, Bank of Ghana, and support institutions.
5. Private Investment Promotion    *   The credit supported the Government's program to      1991               Closed
promote higher levels and more efficient investment in the
economy in order to achieve an average growth rate of about
5 percent per year, raise investment to 18 percent of GDP by
1992, and raise national savings to 12 percent of GDP.
6. Economic Management Support     *   To improve analytical and administrative capability in  1991   Project is still ongoing
the core economic management agencies: the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning, National Revenue Service,
Controller-Accountant General, Office of the Head of Civil
Service, Audit Service, and the Ghana Statistical Service.
7. Enterprise Development Project  *   To provide foreign exchange for export finance and    1993     Project closed on March 31,
develop a credit enhancement program to encourage the             1998 owing to unsatisfactory
inclusion of incremental exporters in the effort to expand        performance
non-traditional exports.
8. Private Sector Development      *   To foster the development of a competitive private    1994     Mid term review was completed
sector by: (a) assisting the Government in its efforts to         in June 1998 and project is to be
restructure, reform and commercialize its technical research      restructured
and development along competitive and demand-driven
principles; (b) providing a broad segment of the private
sector with the necessary financial and technical assistance
to support the development of commercially bankable
projects by improving their feasibility and quality; (c)
supporting efforts by the export industry to improve their
I_________________________________  design and the promotion of their products; and (d) assisting



- 15 -
Loan/Credit Title                               Purpose                            CY of               Status
approval
the Government in developing a program to upgrade the
delivery of legal services to the commercial and
manufacturing sectors.
9. Public Enterprise and Privatization    *   Public Enterprise Reform: To strengthen management  1996  Mid term review planned for
TA                                 of the SOE reform program, develop capacity to manage             November 1998
declining portfolio of loans and investments in SOEs, and
reform policies and regulations in key sectors.
*   Privatization: To transfer ownership and management
of commercial SOEs to the private sector, and build and
sustain public and stakeholder support and investor
confidence
10. Public Finance Management      *   To promote efficient fiscal management. This will be  1996    Mid term review scheduled for
achieved through better monitoring and control of public         late 1999.
expenditures, improved allocation of resources consistent
with national priorities, and enhanced accountability and
transparency in the use of public resources.
11. Economic Reform Support        *   To support completion of an important phase in the   1998     Ongoing. Was approved by the
Operation                          Ghanaian reform program and lay the foundations for the next      Board in June 1998
phase of difficult and complex reforms. The later phase includes
a comprehensive public sector reform program, public
expenditure management, deepening the privatization program
and restructuring the energy and cocoa sectors.
*   To provide external financing requirements of Ghana in the
context of a vulnerable external position and low level of
external reserves
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                                                                   September 1993
Preparation                                                                  October 1993-July 1994
Appraisal                                                                    September/October 1994
Negotiations                                                                   March 23-24, 1995
Letter of Development Policy                                                     March 24, 1995
Board Presentation                                                                May 9, 1995
Signing                                                                           July 25, 1995
Effectiveness                                        May 31, 1995              September 20, 1995
First Tranche Release                                May 31, 1995              September 20, 1995
Mid-term Review                                          N.A                         N.A.
Second Tranche Release                              March 31, 1996               December 1996
Third Tranche Release                               January 31, 1997               April 1998
Project Completion                                   April 30, 1997              April 30, 1998
Loan Closing                                        October 31, 1997             April 30, 1998



- 16-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US $ million)
FY95         FY96         FY97        FY98
Appraisal Estimate                                    0.00        30.00        45.00        70.00
Actual5                                               0.00        34.71        49.26        75.02
Actual as a % of Estimate                               0.0       115.7        109.5        107.2
Date of Final Disbursement: April 28, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Programmed                                                   Actual
(i) Approve, at the Cabinet level, the accelerated divestiture program   This was done before Board presentation
and the selection of the 110 small and medium SOEs and the 4 large
strategic SOEs
(ii) Approve, at the Cabinet level, the procedures for divestiture and  This was done before Board presentation
disseminate them to the public.
(iii ) Cornplete sale of 10 enterprises to the private sector  This was done before Board presentation
(iv) Agreed on an action plan for pre-privatization preparation of the  This was done before Board presentation
four strategic enterprises: Ghana Telecom, SIC, SHC, Mim Timber.
(v) Agreed on the terms of reference of the cocoa export marketing  This was done before Board presentation
study
(vi) Adopted an action plan for implementing  a satisfactory  This was done before Board presentation
accounting and expenditure monitoring system as well as a new
contracting system over the program period
(vii) Agreed on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1995-97     This was done before Board presentation
It Condlde*for seownd fr. 'anchemeles                                                                      4 '
(i) Ensuring macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower consistent *   Borrower satisfied the quantitative macroeconomic
with the objectives of the Program and satisfactory performance in  criteria and benchmarks incorporated in the PFP agreed
carrying cut the Program                                      jointly by the Borrower, the IMF and the Bank.
(ii) Complete sale or liquidation of at least 14 enterprises, including at    *   This was achieved with some delay of 5 months
least 4 medium-sized enterprises
(iii) Increase by FY95, by at least 10% in real terms based on FY94, actual *   This was achieved in FY95
expenditures on both (i) recurrent non-wage expenditures and (ii)
development expenditures for basic education, primary health and rural
infrastructure.
(iv) Complete and deliver to IDA the study regarding the liberalization of  *   The study was delivered to IDA in June 1996
cocoa export marketing
(v) Complete the assessment of the contracting system employed by the    *   This was achieved before second tranche release
Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) and Ministry of Works and
Housing (MWH) and design a revised contracting system, satisfactory to
IDA.
5 These include the IDA Reflows



- 17 -
Programmed                                                    Actual
(vi) Implement an expenditure monitoring system in six pre-specified  *   This was achieved before second tranche release
ministries, satisfactory to IDA
(vii) Design an accounting system, satisfactory to IDA, meeting the  *   This was achieved before second tranche release
objectives set out in the Program for use by the six ministries mentioned in
condition (vi) above
(i) Ensuring macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower consistent *   The macroeconomic policy framework which had
with the objectives of the Program and satisfactory performance in  suffered some slippages in FY96 was put back on track in
carrying out the Program                                        FY97 and performance under the PSAC Program was
satisfactory
(ii) Complete the sale or liquidation of at least 24 enterprises provided that *   This was achieved after a six month delay
such 24 enterprises taken together with the 14 enterprises divested by the
second tranche release, include at least 14 medium-sized enterprises
(iii) Offer for sale: (a) the company to which the assets of the  *   Only (a) was achieved. A waiver was sought for (b)
Telecommunications Division of GPTC have been transferred; and (b) at   on the basis that action to prepare the enterprises for sale
least two of the other three strategic SOEs--Mim Timber, SIC and SHC  had been initiated.
(iv) Increase by at least 20 percent, in real terms, recurrent non-wage  *   This was achieved in FY96
expenditure and development expenditure on social sectors in FY 1996
based on FY94.
(v) Implement in the MRH and MWH the revised contracting system  *   This was achieved before the third tranche release
referred to above
(vi) Implement the expenditure monitoring system in at least another 10    *   This was achieved before the third tranche release
ministries responsible for at least 30% of allocations of the annual budget
(vii) Implement the new accounting system (referred to above) in the first  *   This was achieved before the third tranche release
six specified ministries
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
2.03         3    Closing date                     | CD    | 10/31/1997   |4/30/1998 |Delays in meeting tranche |
.                        l          l                 l            | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~release conditions led to   1
l   l            l            | ~~~~~~~~~extension of closing date. |
3.01         4     Exchange of views with IDA on |
progress on the program             C         Continuous
3.03         1,4   Preparation of financial records             June 30, every
and audit reports                                year
I   C_I_I_1_11
Sch. 1        2     Withdrawal of proceeds
C        Continuous
Sch. 2        2     Procurement of goods
C        Continuous
Sch. 3, A (1)    5     Complete the sale of at least 14             Second tranche               The outsourcing program
enterprises, including at least 4               release                   for private consultants was
medium-sized ones                  CD                                     delayed
Sch. 3, A (2)    5     Complete and deliver to IDA                  Second tranche
study on liberalization of cocoa                release
export marketing                    C
Sch. 3, A (3)    5     Increasing recurrent non-wage                Second tranche



- 18-
expenditures and development                   release
expenditures in social sectors byre
10% (in real terms) during FY95     C
Sch. 3, A (4)    5    Assess the existing, and re-design,          Second tranche
the contracting system used by the              release
MRH and MWH                         Cl
Sch. 3, A (i5)   5    Introduce expenditure monitoring             Second tranche                T
system in six ministries specified             release                    f  p
in the Programl
Sch. 3, A (2a)   5    Design an accounting system for              Second tranche
use by the six ministries above                release
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   G T CC                            I__    _ _  _
Sch. 3, B (21)   5    Completr fse sale of another 24               Third tranche                The outsourcing prografo
enterprises, including 14 medium-               release                   for private consultants was
sized ones                         CD                                     delayed.
Sch. 3, B (2a)   5    Offer for sale the                            Third tranche
Telecommunications division of                  release
GPTC                                Cl
Sch. 3, B (2b)   5     Offer for sale at least two of Mim            Third tranche                The offer for sale of 2 of
Timber, SIC and SHC                             release                  these 3 strategic
CP                                    enterprises was delayed. i
A waiver was sought from f
the Board a
Sch. 3, B (3)    5    Increase recurrent non-wage                   Third tranche
expenditure and social sectors                  release
expenditure (in real terms) in c
FY96 by 20% based on FY94           Cl
Sch. 3, B (4o    5     Implement the revised contracting            Third tranche
system IC MRcI and MWH              C           release 
Sch. 3, B   Flo   5    Implement expenditure monitor                Third ranche
system in another 10 ministries                 releasel
responsible for at least 30% ofl
allocations in the annual budget    Cl
Sch. 3, B (6)    5     Implement accounting system                  Third tranche
referred to in Sch. 3, A (6) in the             releasel
six ministries mentioned in Sch.l
3, A(5)                             C
Covenant types:                                                      Present status:
1: Accounts/Audits                                                   C: covenant complied with.
2: Flow and utilization of project funds                              CD: complied with after delay
3: Management aspects of the projectlexecuting agency                CP: complied with partially
4: Monitoring, review and reporting                                  NC: not complied with
5: Project implementation not covered by categories 1-4



-19-
Table 7: Bank Resources; Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                             Weeks                             USS '000
Preparation to appraisal                                         148.1                               452.2
Appraisal                                                         27.0                               84.3
Negotiations through Board approval                               9.0                                23.1
Supervision                                                       20.3                               91.3
Completion (to be added)
TOTAL                                                            204.4                               650.9
Table 8: Bank Resources : Missions
Month/Year      No. of      No. of      Staff skills        Performance rating             Types of problems
Persons     Weeks    represented
Implementation  | Development
Status     !  Objectives
Identification
Pre-Appraisal        July 1994         3          2.5          PS
Appraisal
Supervision I       April 1996         l
Supervision 11       July 1996
Supervision III     Feb. 19976         3           2         EC, PS
Supervision IV       Sept. 1997        3          1.6        EC, PS              S                S         Delays in starting
divestiture
of the 2 large
Supervision V       Feb.9987           4           2         EC,PS               S                S
Staff Skills: EC - Economist  PS - Private Sector Specialist
Performance Rating: I - Minor Problems,; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major problems, actions taken;
U - Unsatisfactory; S - Satisfactory
6 This was a combined PSAC and PEPTA supervision mission
7 This was also a combined PSAC and PEPTA supervision mission



- 20 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
PART III: APPENDIXES



- 21 -
GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
APPENDIX I
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



- 22 -
GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJEUSTMENT PROGRAMME
GOVERNMENT'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Introduction
The Private Sector Adjustment Programme was negotiated between the Government of
Ghana ((iOG) and the Interational Development Association (IDA) in May. 1995. The
Development Credit Agreement was signed on 25th July, 1995 and the credit became effective
on 20th September, 1995.
Programmne 04Jectivg
The pnimary objective of the pfogtamwe aiuhed at promoting rapid private sector growth
through sustenance of macroeconomic stability, accelerating divestiture of SOEs and improving
management and poverty-orientation of public expenditures.
The credit which was meant to provide balance of payment support was designed as a three
tranche operation, the first to be released upon effectiveness. The second and third tranches
were to be released at 10-month intervals subject to the fulfillment by GOG of specific
condirionalities agreed with IDA and outlined in the Development Credit Agreement.
Conditioalitics
The conditionalities were designed to ensure that the programme will be implemented to
achieve the programme objectives. The conditionalities included macroeconomic targets,
expenditure management reforms, poverty reduction expenditures and privatisation targets.
The difficulties encountered during the implementation of the programme, especially the
privatisation component, delayed the fulfillment of these conditionalities and for that matter
tranche releascs. The second tranche was released 15 months (instead of 10) after the first,
whilst the third tranche was released 16 months after the second.
Achievernent of Project Objectives
The Govemment of Ghana did achieve very significant success with regard to project
objectives. By the end of December 1997, domestic primary surplus has increased from 0.3% of
GDP in 1996 to 3.3% of same. Inflation slowed from 45.6% in 1996 to 28.5% by end of 1997.
The Government also increased in real terms budgetary allocations in favour of poverty-
reduction programmes - primary health care, basic education and rural infrastmcture. It is also



- 23 -
improving its expenditure management through the IDA- financed Public Financial
Management Reform Project.
The priva;isarinn rargerm were achieved ro a very large exrenr. Over SO small and
medium enterprises were privanised or liquidated during the duration of the project. Of the 4
large/strategic enterprises agreed under the project. only Ghana Telecom was privatised and the
Government therefore requested for a waiver of the conditionaIity relating to this component.
Imillementaiion Problems
Apart from the privatisaiion programune. all the other components of the programme
were implemented without significant problems.
The numerical targets set under the privatisation programme to a large excent affected
the pace and quality of the progranme leading to tranche release delays. During the appraisal
and credit negotiations, the GOG delegation repeatedly advised against the use of numerical
targets to measure the success of privatisation. The advise was based on experiences and
problems encountered with previous privatisations in the country. The delegation suggested the
use of qualitative measures such as overall government comimitrnent, the economic importance
of SOEs on sale, cumulative sales revenue among others, to measure the success. This
suggestion was not accepted by the IDA team and the GOG delegation reluctantly accepted the
numerical targets in order not to jeopardize the negotiations.
It was assumed that the use of private consultants (including merchant banks), in
addition to the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC), to undertake the pnvatisation on
behalf of government will accelerate the programme. Though several private consultants were
mourced for the privati.cation of over 20 SQEc, only one enterprise had been completely
privatised by these firms at the close of the project. The rest were completed by DIC through its
in-house programme. One masor. for the failure of the ousourcing programme to deliver the
expected numbers was the late commencement of the programme due to the time it took to
develop aa appioptiaLe Pzcedufes Manual. The unfanmiliarity with the process required
extensive consultations in the attempt to develope the appropriate rules and procedures to stand
the test of time.
The second sct of problems that affccted the privatisatioon programTme were; none
availability of land itles, legal challenge by SOE workers and lack of appr,. riate records on
SOEs. Furthermore, there were occasional delays in securing 'no objection' from the TDA to
procure consultants.
Co.clus.ron
Oa the whole the PSAC programme did achieve the sec objectives. It is however advieu'
that in future programmes, the IDA team should lend its ear to suggestions which are
particularly based on experience and knowledge of unique local conditions-



- 24 -
GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
APPENDIX II
THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE MEMORANDUM



-25 -
Intemational Development Assc(ciation
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIL, X
IDA/R98-41
From: The Secretary                                      April 7, 1998
GHANA - Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC)
(Credit 2718-GH)
Release of the Third Tranche - Waiver of One Condition
1.    Attached is a Memorandun from  the President entitled "Ghana: Private Sector
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2718-GH) - Release of the Third Tranche - Waiver of One
Condition" dated April 1, 1998.
2.    In the absence of objections (to be communicated to the Secretary by the close of
business on April 16, 1998), the recommendation contained in paragraph 22 of the Memorandum
will be deemed approved and so recorded in the minutes of a subsequent meeting of the
Executive Directors.
3.    Questions on this document may be referred to Mr. Gerard Byam (ext. 34159).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 26 -
FROM: The President                                            April 1, 1998
GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (Credit 2718-Gl)
RELEASE OF THE THIRD TRANCHE - Waiver of One Condition
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The purpose of this memorandum is to inform the Board that the third tanche of SDR
16.7 rillion is available for disbursement. The memorandum summarizes: (a) features of the
Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC); (b) recent macroeconomic developmnits and the current
outloo]k; and (c) the progress made in meeting the criteria established for the release of the Credit's
third and final tranche as set out in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 and Section B of Schedule 3 of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
II. BACKGROUND
2.     On May 9, 1995, the Board of Executive Directors approved Credit mumber 2718-OH in
the amount of SDR 46.9 million (US$70 million equivalent) for the Republic of Ghana to support
the Government's private sector adjustmnt program. The program is described in a Lr=   of
Developnat Policy datod March 24, 1995. The Development Credit Armnent (DCA) was
signed on July 25, 1995. The Credit was declared effictive on Septmber 20, 1995, and the first
tranche of SDR 20.1 million was released upon effectiveness and disbursed in October and
Novmber 1995. The second tranche of SDR 10.1 million was disbursed in December 1996.
3.     The Private Sector Adjusta.z Credit (PSAC) is a three twance opeato and provides
financal support for the Govement's program  to promote private sector growth.   Te
Government hopes to achieve this partly trwough: (i) acceleating the pace of privaition; and (ii)
maintaining an appropriate  oi      c policy fiamework, including improved managent
and poverty-orientation of public expenditures. The Credit, one of the three envisaged in the
country assistance strategy of 1995, sought to deepen and strengthen policy reforms implemented
under previous adjustment and investment operations.
4.    In accordance with Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of the DCA, the Borrower has fumished certified
audit reports for the fiscal years ending June 96 and June 97.
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib         Country Director:  Peter C. Harmold
Technical Manager Thomas Allen               Task Team Leader: Gerard Byam



-27 -
III. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Macroeconomic Situation
5.    Ihe Ghanaian authorities have pursued a number of important econamic refonns with a
medium-term perspective. An important recent developmet was Parliament's enactment in
February 1998 of a value added tax (VAT). Other economic reforms aim to encourage: (i) a
comprehensive overhaul of expditure nitormg and control; (ii) control of reseve money
growh to provide the nominal anchor necessary to reduce infation; (iii) market determination of
the exchange rate, with the Bank of Ghana's itervention policy directed toward smoothing short
term  fluctuaions; (iv) the strgting of bank supnvsmin and enforcement of bankng
regulations; and (v) structr;al reforms that include the coaiung divesire  of public enterprses
and the refomi of the public service. These policies and related reforms are presented in the
Governmt of Ghana's Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000, being circuld to the Executive
Directors at the same tme as this document.
6.    Following the December 1996 elections and the formation of a new cabinet, the Ghanaian
authorites made a commitment to regain the mometum of adjustnment and reduce inflation.
Ghana's econormic and financial performance in 1996 had reflected an unsustanable combination
of financial policies. The new Govemment realized that lapses in discipline on public expenditu
could not be allowed to recur.
7.    Real GDP grew by an estimated 5.2 percet in 1996 (compared to 4.5 percent in 1995) as
a result of a good harvest, strong export growth (due to a bumper cocoa crop) and a vibrant trade
and serices sector. The return to a nornal cocoa crop and attempts to reduce the govenment
deficit slowed the growth of GDP to an estimatd 3 pernt in 1997, but a rebound to more than 5
percent is projected for 1998. nflation, on an end-of-year basis feil fiom 71 perent in Dcember
1995 to 33 percent in December 1996 anmf to 21 percent in December 1997. The significant decline
in 1996 reflected the efFtcts of a good harvest and a policy of wage restaint. Central bank
intervention to support the cedi, and Go srnmcnt's decision not to raise retail petroleum prices,
also contributed to a decline in inflation. The automatic pricing mecanism of petroleum products,
implemented in June 1996, was supended when its application (in the context of  sing
intemational oil prices) called for an incrase in petrolum prices. The reluctance to raise
petroleum prices and the central bank's support of the exchange rate resuld in lowr than
expected govemment revenues and a decline in foreign exchange reserves respectvely. Howev, it
should be noted that recent developments in the petroleum market permitted the re-introduction of
the automatic pricing formula for petroleum products, permitting a drop in ex-refinety prices and
an increase in retail petroleum prices.
8.    Ghana's present ESAF-supported program, which was formul  in 1995 under a
background of strong inflationary pressures, had an uneven implementation record under the first
annual arrangement during 1996. There were substantial slippages in fiscal performance during the
second half of 1996. The government budget recorded a deficit on a comwitmt basis of 10.4
percent of GDP or about 6 percentage poits of GDP higher than progammed. Ghana's balance
of payments position also deteriorated in 1996, with the currant accout deficit (including pants)
widening to 5 percent of GDP from 2.3 percent in 1995 and gross internaional reserves doclining
to 3.4 months of imports. lle prograsn targets were 3.4 percent and 4.7 months of imports
respectively. As a result of the implementation of tight financial policies in 1997, the governent's
deficit fell to 8.6 percent of GDP, with the primary surplus improving by 3 percentage points of



- 28 -
GDP and with total expenditure declining by 5.4 percentage points. At dte same time, the curent
accunt deficit improved to 3.3 percent. On March 23, 1998, the IMF's Executive Directors
approved Ghana's requet for the second annual aragement under the ESAF. At dte heart of the
new arrangement are continued fiscal refomxs, expected to reduce the fiscal deficit to under 4
percent of GDP in the year 2000, not least as the result of lower interest payments.
9.     The Ninth Consultative Group on Ghana met in Paris in November, 1997. Commitments
of some S1.6 billion of exemal assistance were given to Ghana at this meefing. While this was
similar to the esinated needs in total, there was a shortfall of some $150 million in the requested
level of balance of payments support of $600 million. A number of donors, icluding the Bank,
are therefore considering incrental adjustment assistance to Ghana over e next 2-3 years to fill
this gap, especially in the light of Ghana's decision not to seek additionl debt reschdulng or
access to the HIPC nitiative.
Dveldopments in the Private Sector
10.   Tlhe Goverment's efforts to facilitate private investment encountered mixed results in
1997. Th=e were two positive developments following the adoption of legislation to allow private
partcipation in telecommunications. First, a stategic investor purchased a 30% stake in Ghana
Telecom and assumed management control. Second, a license was granted to a second national
operator for the provision of basic telephony services. Efforts to improve the regulatory
environment and encourage private invesnent in infrastuctire were strngthnd with the
establishment of an iependet  Public Utilities Regulatory Commission. In a first step to restore
economic viability to the utilities, the Commission raised both electricity and water tariffs by over
lOID percent. However, the program to divest state-owned banks suffeed a setback when, as a
result of the Asian financial crisis, the stategic ivestor i Ghana Commercial Bank was unable to
finalize the sale by the deadline of December 31, 1997.
11.   There was a series of confierences during 1997, with strong representation by the private
sector, to discuss the difficult choices facing Ghana if it is to achieve the objectives of "Ghana-
Vision 2020. "' A workshop sponsored by the Private Enterprise Foundation of Ghana (PEF) in
Akosombo in March 1997, idenified a number of critical issues that need to be addressed urgently
if the objectives are to be achieved. The participants agreed that PEF would organize a follow-up
mecting for private and public sector leaders aimed at forging a consens  on an appropriate
straltegy.
12.    The subsequent confce was convend in Chapel Hill North Carolina in June 1997
and, in addition to private participants, was atended by Ghana's Vice President, Minister of
State, and Menbers of Parliament. The cornce concluded that an average growth rate of 8
percent fiom 1995 to 2020 would be required for Ghana to achieve Vision 2020, and that the
present policy fianework in Ghana impeded such accelerated and susanable economic growth. In
order to pronote broad-based and sustinable growth, Ghana needed to commit itsdf to achieving
international competitiveness. The policy impedimnts to competitiveness were discused and
recommnations fonmulated under the headings: (i) macroeconomic instabilitr; (i) dysfimctional
financial markets; (iii) low productivity of labor, and (iv) re-energizing the private sector with
pohcies to link the lauge informal sector to the formal sector (by addressing the maket filures)
Vision 2020 is di catchword for Ghana's aspirations to become a middle income country by the
year 2020.



-29 -
and frming an ntgtd natioal ecmomy-the "Push-Pull straty. lhe cofrec agreed that
the pubLUc/private partersip forgod neoded to hold consutatin  fireqety in an iformed,
respectful, andid, polite and inclusive manner.
13.   The first such consultation was held at the National Econonic Forum in Accra on
September 2-3, 1997 with a theme of "Achieving national consensus on policy measures for
accelerated economic growth within the framework of Ghana-Vision 2020 ". The forum brought
together representatives of the private sector, public sector (Govermment), labor and academia. The
forum made recommendations on policies necessary to support macroeconomic stability,
manufacturing gro- , agricultural growth, and employment and human development. It also drew
up an action plan for the implementation of recommendations on each of these four issues. A post-
forum comnuttee composed of the major stakeholders was established to synthesize and harmonize
the recommendations on the four major issues, and to produce a comprehensive Forum Report,
which has been widely circulated in Ghana.
Outlook
14.   The Govemment recognizes that restoring financial discipline and bringg inflation under
control are necessary for achieving higher private sector led growth. Thus, over the next two years,
the authorities intend to reduce monetary growth to rates conistent with single digit inflation and
increase the domestic prmary surplus of the govemment to nearly 5 percent of GDP. The
policies, which would be associated with an ncrease in govermnent savings, are expected to
encourage private inwvestet and unprove the extenal currnt accot. Annual real GDP growth
should excoed 5 percent, approaching 2.5 perce  on a per capita basis. In the next two years,
Ghana's extemal situation is projectod to remai vulnerable, owing to smaller cocoa crops, lower
gold prices and reduced aid fiom bilateral donors while gross international reserves ar expectod to
remain slightly below the equivalent of 3 months of imports. At the same time, assuming that the
Government does not undertke any new external borrowing on non-concessional terms and that it
strictly adheres to tight financial policies, the debt-service ratio is projected to fall to 29 percent by
1999 and to decline thereafter without any need for rescheduling.
15.   The Governnent will continue to implement structural and institutional reforms in order to
encourage pnvate investment and improve resource allocation. These reforms include expansion of
the divestiture program to include state-owned utilities, enlarging the scope for private sector
activity by continuing to modify the regulatory framework for private participation, reforming the
public service, and improving tax adminion and public expenditure managment. Other
structural reforms aimed at  curaging growth and reducing poverty will include improving
agriculture and the envirounent, strngteing infistrucure (especially in the rural areas) and
developing human resources. The Government's new agricultural growth policy will emphasize
decentraliztion of the delivery of social services, improvement in post-harvest fcilities, increasing
the fanner's share in the fo.b. export price of cocoa to 60 percent (over the medium term) largdy
at the expense of the Cocoa Board's share, as well as reduced taxation of exports as new forms of
revenue generation becone established. The Governmt plans to re,ssess options for eliminatng
the Cocoa Board's export monopoly, while safeguarding the quality of the cocoa crop. The
Governmet also plams to deregulate the petrleum  sector and, following the successful
liberaliaion of teleconummications, increase private participation in the development of the
nation's other infrastructure.



-30 -
IV. PROGRESS AGAINST CONDITIONS FOR THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE
16.    Progress in carrying out the private sector adjustme  program supported by this Credit 6.
been saisfactory. In addition to measures to sustain macro-ccononic stability, the progran, which
addresses the need to promote rapid private sector growth, consists of measures to accelerate
divestiture of SOEs and inprove management and poverty-orientation of public xenditurm. The
vanous measures of divestiture include liquidation, or sale by public auction, sale by private
placement coupled with public offering of minority shares, and by public offering of majority SOE
shares. The Goveent approved at the cabinet level the procedures for divestiture, including
thkose for subcontating ("outsurcing") imnplmentation to private firms.
17.  ITe Govermnme  launched the accelerated divestue program in Jamuary, 1995 when it
handed over 114 SOEs to the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) for divestitur. A
firther 35  terprises have b     dded since that time. The accelerated divestiture program under
the Credit was expacted to sell or liquidate a total of 48 small and medium SOEs. In addition, the
Govemment would offer for sale three of four specified large and sategic SOEs.
18.    As of January 1998, DIC had completed 50 divesires. In addition, DIC's work program
consisted of 53 divesttures in progress of which twenty have been contracted out to consultants.
The other 33 divestiures currently in the work progran are made up of small privattions camed
out in-house by DIC, liquidations being undertaken by liquidators appointed by DIC, and other
sales subject to completion and which were started by DIC before the outsourcig program began.
19.    An area where the Govemment has made marked progress is in post divestiture completion
tasks. Sales contracts have been signed for almost all the divestitures concluded since the
accelerated divestiture program started. An area where further progress is roquired is in improving
the diagnosis of a number of common obstacles which delay the implementation of many
divestitures at their early stages, particularly the resolution of land title issues.
Summary Status of Conditions
20.    The specific conditions for the release of the third tranche (Schedule 1, paragh 4(b) and
ScJheule 3, Section B of the DCA) and their status of compliance are sunmmaized below.
a) The Association sha be satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
the carrying out of the Program (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b)(i) and (iii)).
This condition has been met. The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in trying
to attain macroeconomic stability, in accelerating the pace of privi7ation, and in
improving the management and poverty-orientation of public expenditure.
b) The Borrower has, in accordance with the Privatization Program, completed the
Sale or Liquidation of at least 24 enterprises as provided in paragraph 20 (b) of
the Program, provided that such 24 enterprises taken together with the 14
enterprises [for release of the second tranchel indude at least 14 medium-sized
enterprises.



-31 -
This condition has bee met. The Govnment launchd the acceerated divestitum
program in January, 1995 whe it handed over 114 SOEs to DIC for divestitr. A
fiwther 35 enterprises have boe added since that time. Of the 149 SOEs, a total of 50
anterprise had been divesdo as of January 31, 1998, includig 14 medium-sizcd
enterprises. Twenty six of the reported tra ctions (including 14   diu
qualify for the purpose of the third tranche release
c) The Borrower has, in accordance with the Privatization Program, offered for
sale: (a) the company to which the assets of the Telecommunications Division of
Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation have been transferred (as
provided in The Statutory Corporations (Conversion to Companies) Act, 1993,
Act No. 461) and which is responsible for the telecommunications operations
previously carried out by such division; and (b) at least two of the following three
enterprises: Mim Timber Company Limited, State Insurance Corporation of
Ghana, and State Housing Corporation.
(a) This conditon has been substantiall met. A strategic investr has acquired 30%
stake in, and management control, of Ghana Telecom. Separately, the Goverment
also has granted a license to a second national operator for the prvate provision of
basic telephony services. These two developments, taken together, mean the effective
privaization of Ghana's telecom serices even tugh the offer for sale of Ghana
Telecomn was not strictly in accordance with the agreed defition of the term (i.e. the
sale, throi   competitive bidding, of at least 51% of the Govenment's shares).
(b) This conditon has not bee met and a waiver is souzht. Progress on the divestiture
of the other named strategic enterpnses, Mimn Timber, SIC and SHC, has been slower
than expected. The Governmt had enterd into negotiations with the original owner
of Min Timber for the return of the property, but these negoiati  have collapsed.
DIC is currently preparing to outsource the divestiure of Mim Tinber. The divestiture
of SIC and SHC has been outsourced but, because of the size of both companies and
the complicated legal issues that will need to be addressed as part of their divestiure,
the privatizations will not be completed before the second half of 1998. Some of these
complications had not been fully appreciated at the time of appraisal. However, the
outsourcing of SIC and SHC shows that the Government has begun an irreversible
divestiture process, with the outsourcing contracts covering the full process from
enterprise appraisal to completion of sales contracts.
d) The Borrower has during fiscal year 1996 increased by at lest 20%, in real
terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (a) recurrent Won-
wage expenditures and (b) development expenditures for the following sub-
sectors: (i) basic education, (ii) primary bealh, ad (iii) rural ifrtructure, 'and
thereafter has at least maintained such level of actual expenditures.
This condition has been met. Non-wage expditur  in primary health care, basic
education and rural infrastuu    were raised in real tems by 288 per cent, 103 per
cent and 266 per cent, respectively, in the 1994-1996 period. Data for 1997 are not
yet available. However, the 1997 budget provided for a maintance of expenditues
at 1996 levels.



-32-
e) The Borrower has implemented in its Ministry of Roads and Highways and its
Miistry of Works and Housing the revised contracting system referred to in
Paragraph A. 4(b) of Schedule 3 to the DCA.
This cnitn has beo   4 The Minisy of Roads and Highways itroduced in May
1996 a cmputer-based monly Ctract Innaixm  System to sughen the
managemnt of its mult-year conacu. Ie new conacting systm  has been
implemented with the publication of a notice formally increasing te    board limits.
f) The Borrower has implmented the expenditure monitoring system referred to in
Paragraph A.5 of Schedule 3 to the DCA in at least ten ministries (in addition to
the six listed in paragraph 39 of the Program) responsible for at klat 30% of
alocations in its most recent annual budget.
This conditon has been substantially met. PSAC envisaged a limited expenditure
monitorg system which has since evolved into an integrated public financial
management system with sub-systems covering budget preparation, budget
implementation, accounting,  cash  management, debt managmet,  revenue
m^anagement, auditing and procurement. The more comprehensive system is supported
by the IDA-financed Public Financial Management Reform Project. Progress on
irnplementing the project is satisfactory. A medium-term expenditure fiamework
(MTEF) for pnority sectors which will form the basis for annual budgeting has been
prepared and will be launched in June 1998. In addition, a new computer-based
budget and public expenditure managemeat system (BPEMS) has_ben desied and
ivitions to tender for software have been sent out. Phased implementation will
begin in 1998 with the start of software ausiaion and taining of stafti and the
BPEMS is cxpected to be fully operatoal for the budget cycle for the calndar year
2000.
g) The Borrower has implemented in the six ministries lted in paragraph 39 of the
Program the accounting system referred to in Paragraph A.6 of Schedule 3 to the
DCA.
This condition has been substantially met. (See (f) above).



-33-
V. OVERALL ASSESSMENT
21.   In sum, progress under the Program has been saisfactory. The one condition for which a
waiver is sought is that requiring the Borrower to have offered for sale at least two of the
following enterprises: Mim Timber Company Ltd., State Insurance Corporation and State Housing
Corporation. The Credit Agreemt defines "offer for sale" as: (i) undertaing a valuation of the
enterpnse, (ii) preparmg a prospectus or information memorandum for the enterprise, and (iii)
soliciting offers for the sale of the enteprise either direly or through adverments. ITe
Borrower has con$acted with consulng firms to carry out this process with respect to SIC and
SHC. In fact, the contactig out process tas th enteprises beyond the PSAC cdtio in tdat
the consultng firms are also required to negotiate with potcntial investors. The firms intd to
complete their assignments by the second half of 1998. Hence, by eltering into these contracts, the
Borrower has acted in accordance with the spirit of the Program and has begun an irTeversible
process to divest SIC and SHC.
VI. CONCLUSION
22.   In view of the overall salisfiory pefrmance of the program suppted by this Credit,
the Borrower's efforts to comply with the specific coditions for the third traunhe release and the
waiver sought on Conditio No. B.2(b) of Schedule 3 of the DCA, I recommd Board approval of
the waiver and release of the third tanche.
James D. Wolfensobn
by esidst
by Sven Sandsto



GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
APPENDIX III
Status of the Accelerated Divestiture Program as at February 3, 1998
j|            Enterprise           Size       Status       Sale Price  Amount   Completion/ Exec.       Comments
Paid
US$       US$       Expected
I____________________________         ________________  million    million    Completion
From Original PSAC List
1 Ehwiaa Wood Products           M  Withdrawn                                                     Withdrawn by Ministry of Lands
2 GNTC Properties                 S  Various div. stages                                     DIC
3 Cocoa Processing Taksi         M  Suspended                                   Indefinite
4 Crystal Oil Company             S  Suspended                                  Indefinite         Dispute with other shareholders
5 GIHOC Footwear                 S  Suspended                                   Indefinite         Czech firm to finance restructuring
6 GNTC Heavy Equipment           M  Suspended                                   Indefinite
7 Accra City Hotels (Novotel)    M  Seeking Authorization                        Indefinite
8 Accra Markets Co               M  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
9 Ainynase Oil Mills              S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
10 Anwiakanta Oil Mills           S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
11 BHC Mechanical Workshop        S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
12 Cape Coast Quarry              S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
13 Clay Prodcuts Ltd              S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
14 Ghana Stone Quarry             S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
15 Nasia Rice                     S  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
16 National Trust and Holding     M  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
17 Plant Pool                     M  Seeking Authorization                       Indefinite
18 Shai Hills Ranch              SJSeeking Authorization                         Indefinite
19 Tongu Ranch Ltd                S JSeeking Authorization                       Indefinite
20 Wulugu Livestock Products      S jSeeking Authorization                       Indefinite                                             l
21 City Express                   M  Pre-bidding                   l              Sep-98      O/S



22 Ejura Farms                   S  Pre-bidding                                 Jun-98      O/S
23 Ghana Sanyo Co.               S  Pre-bidding                                 Dec-98      O/S
24 GIHOC Meat Products           S  Pre-bidding                                 Sep-98      O/S
25 Mim Timber                     L  Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      O/S
26 Omnibus Services Authority    M  Pre-bidding                                 Sep-98      O/S
27 Pomadze Poultry               S  Pre-bidding                                 Sep-98      O/S
28 State Housing Corpooration     L  Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      O/S
29 State Insurance Corporation    L  Pre-bidding                                Sep-98      O/S
30 Africa Timber and Plywood     M  Pending Completion              0.205      Indefinite    DIC  Payments were delayed
31 Ghana Oil Palm Dev. Corp      M  Pending completion     6.95      4.50      Indefinite    DIC  indirect state-owned interests
32 GNTC Bakery                   S  Pending completion                                      DIC  Payments schedule lapsed
33 Juapong Textiles              M  Pending completion              0.320      Indefinite    DIC  Govemment shareholding is 49%
34 Loyalty Industries            S  Pending completion                          Jun-98      DIC  MOU has been signed
35 Tema Shipyard                 M  Pending Completion     4.35      2.10      Indefinite
36 Ghana Bauxite Co              M  Not yet started                            Indefinite    MIC
37 Ghana Food Distribution       M  Not yet Started                            Indefinite        Policy issues
38 Ghana National Procurement    M  Not yet started                            Indefinite   O/S
39 Ghana Oil Company             M  Not yet started                            Indefinite        Policy issues
40 Ghana Reinsurance Co          M  Not yet started                            Indefinite        Policy issues
41 Precious Minerals Marketing   M  Not yet started                            Indefinite        Policy issues
42 State Enterprise Audit Corp   S  Not yet started                             Dec-98      DIC
43 Tema Oil Refinery             M  Not yet started                            Indefinite        Policy issues
44 Ghana Airways - Catering      M  Not started yet                            Indefinite        To be done with Ghana Airways
45 Ghana Publishing Tema         M  Negotiations ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC
46 GIHOC Fibre                   M  Negotiations ongoing                        Sep-98      O/S
47 GNTC Motors                   M  Negotiations ongoing                        Sep-98      DIC



Sta.e Construction Company         Negotiations ongoing                       Jun-98     O/S
49 State Shipping Corporation   M  Negotiations ongoing                        Jun-98     O/S
50 State Transport Corp         M  Negotiations ongoing                        Apr-98     O/S
51 Bonsa Tyre Company           M  Negotiations ongoing                        Jun-98     O/S
52 Ghana Bottling Company       M  Negotiaions ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC
53 Ghana Airways - Handling     M  More info required                        Indefinite
54 Ashanti RDC                  S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC  legal changes needed
55 Brong Ahafo RDC              S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC  legal changes needed
56 Central RDC                  S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC  legal changes needed
57 Eastem RDC                   S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98      DIC  legal changes needed
58 Ghana Seed Co                 S  Liquidation ongoing                        Dec-98     LIQ
59 GIHOC Vegetable Oil-Tamale    S  Liquidation ongoing                        Dec-98     LIQ
60 Greater Accra RDC             S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC  legal changes needed
61 Meat Marketing Board          S  Liquidation ongoing                        Dec-98     LIQ
62 Northem RDC                   S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC  legal changes needed
63 Upper East RDC                S  Liquidation ongoing                       Jun-98      DIC  legal changes needed
64 Upper West RDC                S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC  legal changes needed
65 Volta RDC                     S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC  legal changes needed
66 Westem RDC                    S  Liquidation ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC  legal changes needed
67 City Hotel Kumasi            M  Contract pending                            Jun-98     DIC  Buyer had defaulted on payments
68 Ghamot Motors Company        M  Contract pending                            Mar-98     DIC
69 GIHOC Pharmaceuticals        M  Contract pending       9.1                  Apr-98     O/S  First outsourced divestiture
70 Twifo Oil Palm Plantation    M  Contract pending       6.39                 Apr-98     DIC  President's approval awaited
71 Westem Veneer and Lumber     M  Contract pending                            Jun-98
72 Aluworks Ltd                 M  Complete               2.07      2.07       Nov-97     DIC  public offering
73 Automotive Technical Services    M  Complete           1.6      0.838       Feb-97     DIC  Lawyers followig up on unpaid
balances
74 Ceramica Cordero              S  Complete                       0.230                  DIC  liquidated
75 Dorado Garment                S  Complete             0.173     0.173       Dec-96     DIC  Fully paid
76 Fafla Auto                    S  Complete                                              DIC
77 Ghana Film Industries         S  Complete              1.4       1.4        Nov-96     DIC  Fully paid
78 Ghana Manufacturing Co        S  Complete                                              DIC
79 Ghana National Manganese Co    M  Complete             4.0       2.0        Dec-95     DIC  Payment plan agreed for remaining
____  .__     ________  __________    _____________   paym ents
80 Ghana Rubber Estates        I M IComplete              3.6       3.6           Nov-96
81 Ghana Telecom               |L  Complete                               I j  [          DICT



82 Ghana Textile Printing        M  Complete                                               DIC
83 GIHOC Central Advertising     S  Complete              .043      .043                   DIC
84 GIHOC Central Co HQ           S  Complete                                    Apr-97     SEC  Some of the buildings re-allocated to Govt
agencies
85 GIHOC Marble Works            S  Complete                                               DIC
86 GIHOC Paper Conversion        M  Complete                                               DIC
87 GNTC Bottling Co              M  Complete               7.0       7.0       Dec-95      DIG  Govt shares worth $2 million sold in
Jan 98
88 GNTC Clinic                   S  Complete              0.274     0.137       Jul-97           Lawyers following up on unpaid
balances
89 GNTC Metal Works              S  Complete              0.173     0.173       Jan-98     DIG  Fully paid
90 GNTC Olivetti                 S  Complete                                    Sep-97     DIC  Balance due of Cedi 0.5 million
91 GNTC Pharmaceutical           S  Complete              0.091     0.091       Sep-97     DIC  Fully paid
92 GNTC Technical                S  Complete              0.566     0.351       Sep-97     DIC
93 GNTC Textiles                 M  Complete                                    Sep-97     DIC
94 ICAP GIHOC Pharmaceutical     S  Complete                                                DIG  A-G Opinion received (restitution)
95 Kentinkrono Poultry           S  Complete                                                DIC  A-G opinion received (restitution)
96 Kumasi Catering               S  Complete                                                DIC
97 National Industries Corp HQ   S  Complete              0.55      0.55        Dec-96      DIC
98 NIC Chemicals and Paints      S  Complete                                                DIC  More info needed
99 NIC Vehicle Assembly Plant    S  Complete                                                DIC  More info needed
100 Pankrono Poultry             S  Complete                                                DIC
101 Prefab Concrete Products     S  Complete              0.302     0.302       Feb-96      DIC  Fully paid
102 Sunyani Catering Rest Hse    S  Complete
103 Tema Food Complex            M  Complete
104 Tomos Ghana                  S  Complete                                                DIC
105 Buipe Lime Limited           S  Bidding ongoing                             Sep-98      DIC
106 Gliksten West Africa         M  Bidding ongoing                             Sep-98      O/S
107 Fafia Machine Shop           S                                                               No information avalable
108 GIHOC Manufacturing          S                                                               No infornation available



109 GIHOC Vegetabe Oil-Kasima     S                                                              No infornation available
110 GNTC Buying Division          S                                                              No inforfnation available
111 GNTC Department Stores        S                                                              No information available
112 GNTC General Foods            M                                                              No infonnation available
113 GNTC Head Office              S                                                              No infornation available
114 Volta Lake Transport         M                                                          O/S
Enterprises Added to PSAC
115 Amerhia Farms                    Suspended                                                   Returned to Min of Agric; demo school
116 Atebubu Commercial Farms         Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      O/S
117 Benso Oil Palm Plantation        Pre-bidding                                Jun-98      DIC
118 Bolgatanga Catering Guest        Pre-bidding                                Sep-98      O/S
House
119 Graphic Corporation              Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      O/S
120 National Oil Palm Planation      Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      DIC
121 New Times Corporation            Pre-bidding                                Dec-98      O/S
122 Atlantic Hotel                   Pending completion     1.0      0.33        Feb-98     DIC  ADB to pay the guarantee
123 Food Production Corporation      Pending completion                         Dec-98      DIC  Problem of land title
124 GIHOC Cannery Pwalugu            Pending Completion                          Jun-98     O/S  Only 10% paid
125 GIHOC Refrigeration              Pending completion                        Indefinite    DIC  Problem of land ownership; currently in the
courts
126 State Farm Corporation           Pending completion                         Dec-98      DIC  Problem of title to land & building
127 Tema Textiles                    Pending completion                         Indefinite       Indirect state-owned interests
128 GIHOC Distilleries               Not yet started                           Indefinite    O/S  Permission from Minister awaited
129 Akwaaba Tourist                  Not for divestiture
130 Navrongo Catering Guest House    Not for Divestiture
131 Takoradi Catering Guesthouse     Not for Divestiture
132 Ghana Sugar Estates              Negotiations ongoing                       Sep-98      O/S
133 Bunso Poultry Farm               Negotiations ongoing                        Jun-98     DIC
134 GIHOC Boatyards Tema             Liquidation ongoing                        Dec-98      LIQ  All three operations to be liquidated
135 New Match Factory                Liquidation ongoing                        Dec-98      LIQ



136 Ghana Consolidated Diamonds      Contract pending                           Jun-98      M/C  Awaiting President's approval
137 Akokerri Oil Palm Plantation  S  Complete              0.032     0.032      Nov-95      DIC  Fully paid; formerly part of State
Farms Co
138 FPC Farm Assin Bosomadwe      S  Complete                                   May-97      DIC  Fully paid; Formerly part of Food
Production Co
139 GIHOC Brick and Tile          S  Complete              0.02      0.02       Apr-96      DIC  Fully paid
140 GIHOC Cannery (Wenchi)        S  Complete              0.35      0.175      Jun-97      DIC  Lawyers following up on unpaid
,balances
141 GIHOC Nzema                   S  Complete
142 Ho Catering Guesthouse        S  Complete              0.112     0.056      Apr-97      DIC  Lawyers following up on unpaid
balances
143 Meridien Hotel                M  Complete              0.25      0.25        Jul-97     DIC  Fully paid
144 NIC Electrical                S  Complete                                   Dec-96      CAC  Returned to original owner
145 NIC Estates                   S  Complete                                   Dec-96      CAC  Returned to original owner
146 NIC Farms                     S  Complete                                               DIC  A-G opinion received
147 Nsamanko Press Limited        S  Complete                                               DIC  A-G opinion received
148 State Fishing Corporation     M  Complete               2.0       1.7                   DIC
149 Topease, Akim, Manso Rubber    S  Complete             0.073     0.048      Jan-96      DIC  Formerly part of State Farms Co
S: Small, M: Medium, L: Large, O/S: Outsourcing, M/C: Mines Commission, LIQ: Liquidator
Exec: Executing Agency



GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CR. 2718-GH)
MAP



IBRD 265
~BURKINA FASO2
Tu~C;   mu  ~  7Novrongo0   ,>-Z8sile                                     G  H  A  N  A
UP            A                           /  0  / J CITIES AND TOWNS
i I  1   y                    S           X     BOL~~~~~~~~GATANG      
Lawrapa                              V, P P E R < Sanmbogo                                      -   PRIMARY ROADS
\%v  \   W  E S T  X         /0  DISTRICT CAPITALS
adowli   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.                                   REGION CAPITALS
RNariawl  vr   lt  !   Walewale  /       lL    69  NATIONAL CAPITAL
. DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-  REGION BOUNDARIES
-  INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
>    f    tS   9                -D) )  \ X                      \\\S~~~~~~~~abobalt
G   \    /                       X~~~~~~~~           ~~Tolono  //    Yend    (. '
i   {   Q                   --/                                 X    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zobzugl?
*  /    \             O~~~~Damongo                                                           r
. ... ^, g % Bi~~~~~~mbill  )
C  O T E                                                        >                                                          ;.i E ib <>,, , TOGO
D ' I V O I R E  \    <   \    3    )                         --<Duk5o  ENkwdu j
BIntmpoo
/  <   / <  _   /  OK-ame Danso                          1994
'Droba    ~~Wenchio   0                   ,Atebu.;o ut                                           /
enkroas9                 mWo             t     n                                                          o  e V-  ;> .  UW,  
\   rs    Wiow~ny0sg   g_4 x bb S n                   ,Abr                                                dma
6-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~f s                             du 1   vNwt /         uum    ORD          7 Y      o ako ei    0 gi
}   i/             Dunkwa-9x_7 Akim OdaV  o  _   Sk70>ad wa                                 i      <1gy/;e
1  Q  (JXnkranf <l fosulF X * 0                                          ra
.~~~~~~~~~~B                                       T-                                                 . _ .....................D<ma<jt.e$iiS>;iii;1  2ij5 i6
Ju tokab                                                 e <<X0< $x0;;j l<>Z>j ;
g~~~~~~~ busimOcu; p
awso                  I'Kadb                     Krob(z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AdDCEMERm99



