Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2718 GH
                          Development Credit Agreement
                       (Private Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                     between
                                REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                       and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated July 25, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2718 GH
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
March 24, 1995, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to promote private
sector growth by accelerating the pace of privatization and
ensuring a supportive macro-economic policy framework
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution; and
       (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three
tranches as hereinafter provided;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
Page  2
                    General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
       (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
             "'Project' means the imports and other activities
       that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
       pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
       Development Credit Agreement.";
       (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
             "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
       Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
       between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
       shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
       such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
       reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
       referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit
       Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
       Association of their respective obligations under the
       Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
       purposes of the Credit.";
       (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
       (d)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
             "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
       otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on
       account of expenditures in the territories of any country
       which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
       in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
       for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
       for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
       knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
       of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
       VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a) "BOG" means the Bank of Ghana, established pursuant to
the Bank of Ghana Law, 1992 (P.N.D.C.L. 291);
       (b) "Liquidation" means with respect to an enterprise, the
termination of its legal personality and the transfer of all
its assets;
       (c) "Offer for Sale" means with respect to an enterprise
that the Borrower has: (i) carried out a valuation of the
enterprise, (ii) prepared a prospectus or information
memorandum for the enterprise, and (iii) solicited offers for
the Sale of such enterprise either directly or through
advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers;
       (d)  "Privatization Program" means the Borrower's program
to privatize small, medium and strategic public sector
companies referred to in paragraphs 16-28 of the Program;
       (e)  "Sale" means with respect to any enterprise, either
Page  3
(a) the sale by the Borrower of at least 51% of the shares of
such enterprise to a private sector party or private sector
parties, provided that the shareholding of the largest single
private sector purchaser (or group of affiliated private sector
purchasers) in such enterprise exceeds the aggregate
shareholding of the Borrower's public sector entities in such
enterprise; or (b) the sale by the Borrower to private sector
parties of at least 75% of the shares of such enterprise; and
       (f) "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986).
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty six million nine hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,900,000).
       Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1997
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
       (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15,
commencing July 15, 2005 and ending January 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
Page  4
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
       (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
       Section 2.09. (a) BOG is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
       (b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts BOG with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than $3,000,000 equivalent.
                           ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
       (c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
       (b) The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                    year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records and
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the
                    Association shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
       (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                    from the Credit Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents, or customs certificates,
                    as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audits referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
       Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
Page  6
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE V
                               Termination
       Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Minister of Finance
             Ministry of Finance
             P.O. Box M40
             Accra, Ghana
             Cable address:                        Telex:
                    ECONOMICON                       2205 MIFAEP GH
                    Accra
       For the Association:
             International Development
              Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                  Telex:
                    INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                          By /s/ Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                                   Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                                      Africa
Page  7
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association
by notice to the Borrower:
   Group            Subgroup       Description of Items
   112                 --          Alcoholic beverages
   121                 --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                   refuse
   122                 --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                   or not containing tobacco
                                   substitutes)
   525                 --          Radioactive and associated materials
   667                 --          Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                   stones, unworked or worked
   718              718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                                   fuel elements (cartridges),
                                   nonirradiated for nuclear reactors
   728              728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
   897       897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                   platinum group metals
                                   (except watches and watch cases)
                                   and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                   wares (including set gems)
   971                 --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                   gold ores and concentrates)
       (b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for
expenditures, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of  SDR 9,400,000 may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after February 1, 1995;
       (d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $10,000 equivalent;
       (e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
       (f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
       (g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR 9,400,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
Page  8
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000
equivalent may be required by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit:
       (a) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
20,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program, (ii) that the actions described in
Paragraph A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken,
and (iii) that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework
is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
       (b) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
30,200,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program, (ii) that the actions described in
Paragraph B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken,
and (iii) that the Borrower's macro-economic policy framework
is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.     If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit or any part thereof.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                             Procurement
Part A:      General
1.     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
2.     Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection
by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
       Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
       Goods estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured:
Page  9
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, under
contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures, provided
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
       (a)   under contracts awarded on the basis of
             international shopping procedures in accordance with
             the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
             Guidelines; or
       (b)   in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of
             the Guidelines, under direct contracting procedures
             in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph
             of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than
$10,000,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                           SCHEDULE 3
       Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4(a)(ii) and 4(b)(ii)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
A.     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4(a)(ii) of Schedule 1
1      The Borrower has, in accordance with the Privatization Program,
completed the Sale or Liquidation of at least 14 enterprises as
provided in paragraph 20(a) of the Program, including at least 4
medium-sized enterprises.
2      The Borrower has completed, and delivered to the Association,
the study referred to in paragraph 29 of the Program regarding the
liberalization of cocoa export marketing.
3      The Borrower has during fiscal year 1995 increased, by at least
10%, in real terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on
both (a) recurrent non-wage expenditures and (b) development expenditures
for the following sub-sectors: (i) basic education, (ii) primary health,
and (iii) rural infrastructure, and thereafter has at least maintained
such level of actual expenditures.
4      The Borrower has: (a) completed the assessment of the contracting
system employed by its Ministry of Roads and Highways and its Ministry
of Works and Housing, referred to in paragraph 41 of the Program; and
(b) designed a revised contracting system, satisfactory to the
Association, consistent with the results of such assessment and the
objectives set forth in paragraph 41 of the Program.
5      The Borrower has implemented in six ministries listed in paragraph
39 of the Program an expenditure monitoring system, satisfactory to the
Association, meeting the objectives set forth in paragraph 38 of the
Program.
6      The Borrower has designed an accounting system, satisfactory to
the Association, meeting the objectives set out in paragraph 40 of the
Program for use by the six ministries listed in paragraph 39 of the
Page  10
Program.
B.     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii) of Schedule 1
1.     The Borrower has, in accordance with the Privatization Program,
completed the Sale or Liquidation of at least 24 enterprises as
provided in paragraph 20(b) of the Program, provided that such 24
enterprises taken together with the 14 enterprises referred to in
Paragraph A.1 of this Schedule include at least 14 medium-sized
enterprises.
2.     The Borrower has, in accordance with the Privatization Program,
Offered for Sale:
       (a) the company to which the assets of the Telecommunications
Division of the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation have
been transferred (as provided in The Statutory Corporations (Conversion
to Companies) Act, 1993, Act No. 461) and which is responsible for the
telecommunications operations previously carried out by such division; and
        (b) at least two of the following three enterprises:  Mim
Timber Company Limited, State Insurance Corporation of Ghana, and State
Housing Corporation.
3.     The Borrower has during fiscal year 1996 increased, by at least 20%,
in real terms based on fiscal year 1994, actual expenditures on both (a)
recurrent non-wage expenditures and (b) development expenditures for the
following sub-sectors: (i) basic education, (ii) primary health, and
(iii) rural infrastructure, and thereafter has at least maintained such
level of actual expenditures.
4.     The Borrower has implemented in its Ministry of Roads and Highways
and its Ministry of Works and Housing the revised contracting system
referred to in Paragraph A.4(b) of this Schedule.
5.     The Borrower has implemented the expenditure monitoring system
referred to in Paragraph A.5 of this Schedule in at least ten ministries
(in addition to the six listed in paragraph 39 of the Program) responsible
for at least 30% of allocations in its most recent annual budget.
6.     The Borrower has implemented in the six ministries listed in
paragraph 39 of the Program the accounting system referred to in
Paragraph A.6 of this Schedule.
