Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2718 GH
                                                      (Second Amendment)
                           Second Agreement Amending
                         Development Credit Agreement
                      (Private Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                     and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated December 12, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2718 GH
                                                       (Second Amendment)
                           SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                          DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector Adjustment Credit) dated
July 25, 1995 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of urgently needed imports required during
the execution of the Borrower's program designed to achieve structural
adjustment in the private sector (the Program);
     WHEREAS (B) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
further agreement, dated December 21, 1995 (the Amending Agreement),
whereby the Association has agreed to increase the financing made
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,200,000);
     (C)  the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing
the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million four eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,400,000 1,800,000); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
               Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
     Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by the addition of a new paragraph (h) reading as follows:
          "(h) Second Amending Agreement means the second agreement
          amending the Development Credit Agreement between the
          Borrower and the Association dated July 25, 1995 and the
          Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement dated
          December 21, 1995."
     Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
          on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
          Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
          equivalent to fifty-two million five hundred thousand Special
          Drawing Rights (SDR 52,500,00030,800,000) (the Credit), which
          includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equi-
          valent to forty-six million nine hundred thousand Special
          Drawing Rights (SDR 46,900,000) (the Initial Financing); and
          (b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to
          three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
          (SDR 3,200,000) (the Additional Financing); and (c) an
          additional amount in various currencies equivalent to two
          million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
          2,400,000) (the Second Additional Financing).
     Section 1.03. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by substituting "SDR 33,400,000 16,100,000"
with "SDR 35,800,000.17,900,000".
     Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Second
          Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made and no
          commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
          order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional
          Financing.  At any time after such date, the Association may,
          by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
          the Second Additional Financing from the Credit Account or
          any part thereof."
                               ARTICLE II
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
     Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section
2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Second Amending Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been
executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF GHANA
               By /s/ Nana Effah-Apenteng
                                                 Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                   Regional Vice President
                                                                    Africa
