      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



                                                                                                                     Report Number : ICRR0020035


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                        Project Name
 P084787                                           KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.

 Country                                           Practice Area(Lead)                                 Additional Financing
 Cambodia                                          Agriculture                                         P148646



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-44410,IDA-H3860,TF-55390,TF-91833,TF-               30-Jun-2013                                                                13,000,000.00
  91836,TF-91839

  Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
  20-May-2008                                             31-Mar-2015

                                                                 IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              11,500,000.00                                                     4,124,988.00

  Revised Commitment                                               11,492,551.79                                                     3,887,937.61

  Actual                                                           10,720,883.59                                                     3,887,937.61




 Sector(s)
 General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector(65%):Sub-national government administration(35%)

 Theme(s)
 Other rural development(50%):Land administration and management(25%):Participation and civic engagement(25%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator                Group
 Ridley Nelson                        Christopher David Nelson             Christopher David Nelson              IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The objective of the Project, as stated in the Financing Agreement, was to: "improve the process for identification and use of state lands
    transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land poor land recipients through a transparent and well-targeted selection process." (
    Schedule: 1. P.5 Financing Agreement 2008).
    The development objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that it was a pilot program: "The development objective of the
    Pilot Program is to improve the process for identification and use of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless or land-poor
    recipients selected through a transparent and well-targeted process." ( Project Appraisal Document (PAD), p. 7)
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



     This review applies the Financing Agreement specification but will also refer to the PAD's stated pilot intent.
     As part of 2012 restructuring, a significant revision was made to a key indicator, the target number of communes to be covered by the
     project. The original target of twenty communes was reduced to seven. There was no change to the development objective but because of
     the very large reduction in the number of communes, and therefore the spatial spread of experience, IEG applies a split rating to the period
     before and after this change. (In the event, as discussed under Section 4, the numbers of households and the area of land reached
     somewhat beyond the target, in other words more households and land were covered per commune in the 7 than originally planned for the
     20. However, that does not affect the assessment that dropping from 20 communes to 7 was potentially a significant change in a key
     indicator, at the approximately two-thirds implementation point.)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components
     There were four components and they were not revised during the project period.
     Component A – Commune-Based Social Land Concession Planning and Land Allocation (Appraisal estimate: US$1.5 million and Actual
     cost: US$0.22 million)
     The component aimed to support preparation of Social Land Concession (SLC) Sub-project Plans for communes. This included: (i)
     identification, environmental and social screening and registration of state private lands for SLCs; (ii) soliciting applications for screening
     and selecting eligible landless and land poor from the commune, and; (iii) developing the SLC sub-project plans with land recipients for
     submission to their respective Provincial Land Use and Allocation Committee (PLUAC) for approval.
     Component B – Rural Development Services and Investments (Appraisal estimate: US$5.7 million Actual cost US$5.22 million)
     The component aimed to finance site preparation and implementation of seven SLC sub-project plans. Assistance followed a phased
     approach. In the first year, the land recipient (LR) families were to be supported to settle in the new location, in the second year, they were
     to be introduced to rural livelihoods and in the third year, they were to be provided with financing for civil works, goods, technical
     assistance and training. The component also provided grants to the commune councils working with LRs, to contract civil works, goods,
     technical assistance and training services identified in the approved SLC sub-project plans.
     Component C – Sustainable and Transparent Program Development (Appraisal estimate: US$4.0 million Actual cost: US$3.20 million )
     The component aimed to finance the development of institutional capacity at the national, provincial and district levels to support
     transparent and sustainable implementation of locally initiated SLCs
     At the national level, the component supported the General Secretariat for Social Land Concession (GSSLC) in the Ministry of Land
     Management, Urban Planning and Construction (MLNUPC) to strengthen policy development, public information sharing, training and
     monitoring of SLCs with special focus on Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development (LASED) project provinces. At the
     provincial level, the component financed capacity building of the Provincial Land Use and Allocation Committee (PLUAC) Secretariat and
     specific line departments for their role. At the district level, the District Working Group (DWG) supported and worked closely with
     Commune Councils (CCs) to understand and meet requirements of SLC sub-project planning and implementation. The DWG provided
     CCs with technical support to ensure consistency with the LASED SLC sub-project guidelines and facilitated reporting between CCs and
     PLUAC on progress of SLC planning and implementation. Complementary funding for NGO involvement was sourced through Japan
     Social Development Fund (JSDF). The NGOs supported the local communities and facilitated participation, transparency and dispute
     resolution.
     Component D – Project Administration (Appraisal estimate: US$1.8 million Actual cost US$ 2.09 million)
     The component aimed to finance capacity strengthening for project implementation. This included technical assistance, training,
     incremental operating costs, vehicles and goods. In addition, capacity enhancement was provided at the national level to strengthen the
     National Committee for the Management of Decentralization and Deconcentration (NCDD) Secretariat (now called National Committee for
     Sub-national Democratic Development Secretariat). And, at the provincial level, Provincial Rural Development Committees (PDRC) and
     technical support units were strengthened in the areas of financial management, procurement and contract administration.
     Restructuring
     The project underwent Level 2 restructuring four times as detailed below.

          • In 2010, the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) canceled the Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI), Priority Mission Group
          (PMG) and other salary supplements and incentive schemes. The MBPI was later replaced by the Priority Operating Costs (POC) in
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



       January 2012, a temporary scheme meant to address the short term issue of service delivery and reform implementation. However,
       these changes were not unique to the project and were applied to the entire country portfolio.
       • In 2012, the target number of communes was reduced from twenty to seven communes to match the available project resources. As
       part of restructuring the indicators were also adjusted to reflect the change.
       • In 2013, the project closing date was extended by one year from June 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014 and grant proceeds were partially
       reallocated to enable full completion of the remaining rural infrastructure contracts and to cover infrastructure investment costs for the
       various project sites.
       • In 2014, the project closing date was further extended by a nine-months until March 31, 2015 to allow completion of planning for rural
       infrastructure contracts in the remaining project sites and for those project locations proposed for the next phase. This extension was
       meant to accommodate and support preparatory work for the follow-on operation.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost:
     Total project cost was US$10.73 million, or 82.54% of the appraisal cost of US$13.00 million. The reduced actual cost was due to
    cancellation of US$1.20 million under Germany BMZ and reduction in the counterpart funding from 0.30 to 0.14, totaling US$1.36 million.
    Financing:
    The total actual financing was US$10.73 million
    Borrower Contribution:
    The Borrower contribution decreased from the estimated US$0.30 million to 0.14 million (Annex 1). According to the task team, the
    counterpart funding was intended to co-finance Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI), which was shifted during the implementation
    in the context of Public Financial Management (PFM) and cancelled by the Government.
    Dates:
    As noted, the project was restructured four times. As part of the third restructuring, the project closing date was revised from June 30,
    2013 to June 30, 2014 and, as part of the fourth restructuring, the closing date was further extended by nine months. The project closed
    in March 31, 2015. These changes were made to enable completion of the remaining rural infrastructure contracts and accommodate
    and support preparatory work for the follow on-operation.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The 2004 poverty assessment highlighted access to land as the critical need for the rural poor who were dependent on agriculture for their
   livelihoods. Landlessness was estimated to have increased from 12.6% in 1997 to 19.6% in 2004. During that period, 15% of the poor and
   13% of the poorest quintile were landless in rural areas and 40% of the rural population that farmed less than 0.5 ha were unable to meet even
   half of the nutritional requirements of a typical rural family (P.1 ICR).
   The Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) initiated the distribution of land to the landless and land poor through Social Land Concessions
   (SLCs). This was a key component of its National strategy to enhance the agricultural sector. In the Rectangular Strategy and National
   Strategic Development Plan (2006 – 2010), RGC committed to “accord priority to the strengthening of land tenure rights of the people who
   needed small lots of settlement and family production within the social land concessions framework, as a mechanism to assist poor
   households and vulnerable groups” ( Section 3.1 p. 14. ICR).
   The project development objective allowed for testing processes and developing systems, tools, procedures and capacities for the
   implementation of Sub Decree No. 19 on SLCs supported by the National Land Policy 2009. The objective was consistent with the goal of the
   2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), to improve broad-based rural growth through enhanced management of natural resources (this is
   the last CAS to date and its period was extended until 2011 { p.14 ICR}).
   At closure, the objective continued to remain aligned with the poverty reduction objectives laid out in the National Strategic Development Plans
   (2009 -2013; and 2014-2018) and the 3rd and 4th Rectangular Strategy documents. In addition, preparatory work for the follow on-operation is
   underway (p.6 ICR), further reconfirming the relevance of the objective at closure.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



       Rating                                                                                  Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                             Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       Original Design
       The project design was adequate in terms of addressing the realities on the ground and was appropriate to take forward the country’s Land Law
       (especially the sub-decrees on SLC and state land management), the Rectangular Strategy, and the National Strategic Development Plan.
       The design was founded on extensive consultations with beneficiaries, local communities, NGOs, large landholders, researchers, local and
       national officials, donors and technical specialists to understand land distribution issues affecting the poor.
       All four components were relevant to the achievement of the DO and allowed for testing processes that could be integrated into a broader
       government program. While the first component aimed to improve the process of identification and use of state lands, the second supported
       eligible households to receive livelihood packages as agreed in the SLC plans and the third and fourth components targeted capacity building
       activities to implement the project and to carry out these processes.
       Though design proposed a limited set of critical services that could be provided directly by RGC, the targets were overly ambitious, given that
       the SLC process was new and the level of coordination and collaboration required to achieve it was unfamiliar to the implementing entities.
       Furthermore, the size and coverage of LASED-SLC sites were not considered while setting the target and there was no clarity on what
       constituted ‘degraded forests’, which was one of the three main sources for SLC lands ( The three sources were: canceled economic land
       concessions, recovered illegally occupied lands and degraded forest lands). This led to higher than expected demand for the support and to the
       inevitable need to reduce the number of communes for the allocated resource envelope.
       The results framework was adequate to track progress of the components and achievement of the development objective.
       Revised Design
       As part of second restructuring in 2012, at about the two-thirds point in implementation, the number of communes was reduced from twenty to
       seven since there was a larger land area and larger number of land recipients in those communes than initially anticipated at implementation. It
       was also necessary at that point, having by then covered more allocations in fewer communes, to match available project resources to this
       increased demand. This reduction in the number of communes and the narrowed land sources (cancelled concessions, recovered illegally
       occupied lands and degraded forest) to largely degraded forest land, raised some questions about the learning through-piloting intent of the
       project. However, it is quite evident from the ICR, that the revised design responded to the reality on the ground at that point and did not appear
       to significantly narrow the depth and spread of the learning experience. In turn, it allowed for reaching larger land areas and a greater number
       of beneficiaries and enabled the learning element to be enhanced by organizing demonstrations on technologies in the SLC communities. The
       intermediate indicators in the results framework were accordingly adjusted and two core indicators were added as required by IBRD/IDA, to
       track achievement of progress




       Rating                                                                                 Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                                 Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     The objective of the Project was to improve the process for identification and use of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly
     landless and land poor land recipients through a transparent and well-targeted selection process. The development objective was not revised
     during the project duration. But the target number of communes was reduced from twenty to seven as part of second restructuring in 2012
     and the outcome target under the intermediate indicators was accordingly modified.

     The first sub-objective is as follows: (i) the process for identification of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land
     poor land recipients through a transparent and well-targeted selection process.

    Rationale
    (a) Improve the process for identification of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land poor land recipients
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



    through a transparent and well-targeted selection process
    Pre-restructuring: Rated Modest on balance due to the early progress towards the full target of 20 communes, but falling considerably short
    of what the project set out to do once the demand was accurately assessed and the resource envelope was matched to this demand.
    Post- restructuring Rated Substantial. on balance, considering that the project responded to the reality on the ground at that point and
    exceeded its objective in terms of coverage of land area and number of beneficiaries, though the project narrowed spread of process
    experience (compared to the intent in the PAD) with the reduction to 7 communes and with the predominant focus on a single land category
    Outputs
    1) 100% of land recipients were selected based on the eligibility criteria and transparent mechanisms that involved “ID Poor System’ against
    a target of 70%.
    2) 3,148 families were selected based on transparent mechanisms and participatory selection processes against a target of 3,000.
    3) 10, 273 hectares were covered by the seven SLC sites were registered as state private against a target of 10,000 ha.
    4) 8 SLC sites were sourced from two sources: (a) degraded forest lands (94.5%); and (b) recovered illegally occupied lands (5.5%). No land
    was available from cancelled economic land concessions at the time of SLC site identification.
    5) All 678 complaints were reviewed and screened against the selection criteria and scoring system as per the Complaint Handling
    Mechanisms laid out in the Project Implementation Manual. About 44% (297) of complaints were found to be from non-eligible households or
    unrelated to the process. The remaining 56% (381) of complaints were re-assessed and scores adjusted accordingly. This was achieved to a
    level of 142% of target.
    Outcome
    The land coverage of the SLCs and number of land recipients exceeded project targets, 111% and 104% respectively. Working and
    collaborating with NGOs in public information dissemination increased awareness, transparency and oversight in the selection process.
    Lottery selection of land recipients provided a fair opportunity for selection among the eligible land recipients. The government guidelines on
    selection process was continuously adjusted based on the experiences in the project communities. The land identification process was
    consistent with the safeguard procedures. All land recipients selected matched the selection criteria set out in the SLCs and all complaints
    related to the selection process were reviewed and resolved through established complaints handling channels. The process complied with
    guidelines and principles laid out in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and the decisions were relayed to complainants in a timely
    manner. End results of the reassessment process were made public for further public discussion and acceptance. The involvement of NGOs
    in the review process is reported to have enhanced trust between Commune Councils and communities and increased transparency in the
    procedural set up (p.18 ICR).




    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    Treating the Revised Objective as including the substantial revision of a Key Indicator, the achievement on the seven, as opposed to the
    original 20, communes was, on balance, Substantial.

    Revised Rationale
    Covered above, since there was no change in the stated objective, only in a key indicator with regards to the covered scope of the project.




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     (ii) Improve the use of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land poor land recipients.

    Rationale
    (b) Improve the use of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land poor land recipients
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



Pre-restructuring Rated Substantial
Post- restructuring Rated Substantial
(Note: There is no way of separating the achievement in the use of state lands between the original indicator of 20 communes and the
revised of 7)
Outputs
1) 57% (1,752) of those who received agricultural plots engaged in inter/mixed cropping of cash and permanent crops, adopted improved
water management techniques and observed crop rotation ( target 60% - achieved 95%)
2) Seven technologies were demonstrated in the SLC sites on chicken raising, pig raising, composting, rice production/intensification,
planting of fruit trees, home gardening, and vegetable production and marketing. However, it is not clear how many demonstrations were
carried out, although it is reported (ICR p. 32) that 18,936 participants were trained.
3) Seven communes secured approved plans which served as the basis for the planning and implementation of infrastructure support
services funded under the project (revised target 7 – achieved 100%).
4) 10,273 hectares covered by the seven SLC sites were registered as state private land (target 10,000 Ha – achieved at a level of 103%)
5) 3,148 families totaling 15,226 persons legally occupied and cultivated state private lands allocated through formalized written agreements
under the SLC program – the target was 12,690 – achieved 120%)
6) 100 percent eligible households received appropriate private settling in support as agreed in SLC plan and received appropriate and basic
settling-in support , including food and shelter ( target 100%)
7) 98.88 percent of public infrastructure and other services provided as elaborated in SLC plan (target 80%)
8) 53% of women’s participation in training, workshops and as applicants (head of households or cosignatory) ( target 60%)
9) 90 percent of Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI) recipients assessed as effectively carrying out LASED responsibilities (original
target 90% revised in 2011 to 100%).
10) 215 km of road constructed included 71km of clearing access tracks, approximately 123km of earth roads and 21km of laterite roads
11) Three health posts planned under the project were constructed and provided services to SLC members and surrounding communities
12) 7 primary schools were constructed in the 7 communes
13) LRs in SLC sites received 225,944 kg of rice as part of the food for work program. 2,490 residential starter kits and 3,074 agricultural
starter kits along with 2,226 housing construction materials, 2,687 latrine materials and other plating and livestock inputs such as seeds,
seedlings, chickens and demarcation poles.
14) Support packages were supplied to all eligible households (100%) that settled in the SLC.
Outcome
A broad knowledge of LASED-supported SLC approach is reported to have been generated through annual project workshops, land
governance training and a NGO forum, in addition to sharing IEC materials through print form and NCDDS website. According to the LRs,
road investments facilitated transport of their agricultural products to the markets and improved mobility and access to services, facilities and
opportunities outside the SLC sites. According to the livelihoods survey, travel time was reduced from 96 minutes to 39 minutes for travel
outside the commune. This resulted in transportation savings of about $3.27. A total of 983 students were enrolled in the schools constructed
by the project, with 30% attending from nearby villages. All three health posts constructed under the project were providing services to SLC
members and surrounding communities (2014 livelihood survey p. 18 ICR).
Strong collaboration was achieved with various line departments that supported LRs. This facilitated adaptation and adoption of technologies,
especially agricultural technologies by the LRs. With regard to improvements in land use, the project provided key infrastructure services as
well as agricultural training through an agricultural extension package to the LRs. Demonstration sites in the communes transferred relevant
and appropriate techniques of improving soil management and agricultural production system. 530 courses of agricultural management in
livestock and crop production and demonstration of seven technologies. As noted, 18,936 participants (53% women) were trained in chicken
raising, pig raising, compost making, rice production, fruit tree management, home gardening and vegetable production. 80% of land
recipients are reported to have adopted and implemented improved agricultural and business techniques in their farm activities to improve
soil fertility and agricultural production (Livelihood survey by independent consultant, p.16 ICR)
The majority of the households improved their incomes. According to the 2014 beneficiary survey an average household (agricultural and off-
farm) income increased from US$1,176 ( 2010 baseline survey) to US$1,901. Food security improved. However, the survey found that
around 30% of LASED SLC households still faced food shortages but this compared to 45% of households in the control groups (2014
Annual Food Security Survey by German Agency for Technical Development (GIZ) p. 16 ICR).
Summing up the overall Achievement of Objectives, while the project fell short of covering the planned twenty communes, it over-achieved
targets relating to the number of land recipients (3,154 compared to the originally estimated 3,000) and the area covered (10,609
ha compared to the originally estimated10,000 ha), and made modest progress in improving food security and demonstrated and
gave training on improved technologies. However, to what extent this reduction in spread and the reduction in focus on two of the three land
categories, reduced the learning intent of this pilot is difficult to estimate from the data available.




Rating
Substantial
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)




 Revised Objective
 (ii) Improve the use of state lands transferred to eligible, poor and formerly landless and land poor land recipients.

 Revised Rationale
 Covered above, since there was no change in the stated objective, only in a key indicator.




 Revised Rating
 Substantial




5. Efficiency

The ex-ante EIRR for model households in the PAD ranged from 16 to 21 percent. The ICR ex-post EIRR for model households was lower at 7
to 14 percent, with an incremental (with project C/B stream minus without project C/B stream) project ERR of 16 - 40 percent depending on
assumptions of time period and other variables. The PAD appraisal overlooked possible qualitative benefits from the project.
While 3 ha of agricultural land was planned as the land area to be received by LR households at most project sites, the average actual
cultivated initially was 0.5 ha due to the need for clearing. This lower actual achievement per household is one of the significant
differences between the ex-ante and ex-post analyses. Economic conditions relating to prices, wages, and market opportunities for Cambodia’s
agricultural produce also changed from appraisal to project closing. There were differences too between the PAD and ICR analyses in terms of
assumptions and delivery concerning the number of project sites and model households, areas of agricultural land, the start-up year of
agricultural land use, the trend and pattern of agricultural land use, start-up support costs for LRs, and income of off-farm labor and livestock.
The methodology for Financial and Economic Analysis for the ICR was based on model households of land recipients and, included overhead
project costs. The analysis covered the without-project option, the with-project option, and the project’s incremental effect. The discount rate
used was 14 per cent and the period of analysis was 20 years with another scenario at 30 years. The analysis concluded that all types of model
households fared better in the with-project case when compared to the without-project case. The incremental effect of the project was
significant. The 20 year whole project economic analysis found an incremental ERR of 32%. but this depends quite heavily on the assumptions
about the without project situation. The with-project NPV was negative given the assumption of a high 14% discount rate and the B/C ratio was
below 1.
At the farm level, financial returns to labor were negative in the early years turning positive later as land clearing was completed and crops
started to yield. This is of concern for incentives for poor households. However, the ICR estimates that the incomes eventually would reach
between two and six times the national poverty line. The financial challenge for poor families is to make it to that point.
In terms of qualitative benefits, the ICR argues that the project contributed towards: (a) improved governance in land allocation and
management, (b) community solidarity and mutual assistance, (c) sustainable land use practices, (d) enhanced technologies to increase returns
from livelihood activities, and (e) decrease in migration for risky jobs. (Surprisingly, what is not discussed in the ICR is the possible need for, and
advantages of, off-farm employment of one or two family members as an income risk spreading strategy and a cash source for on-farm
investments, especially to tide over the early negative cash flow years. Some research, for example in India, has shown the cushioning benefits
of a combination of farm and non-farm income.)
The project fell short in several administrative and operational areas with impact on efficiency: 1. The project closing date was extended three
times to complete and consolidate the project activities, despite the fact that the project was undertaken only in seven communes instead of the
originally planned twenty which should have made for easier implementation. However, on the positive side, it spent 84.5% of the cost
estimated at appraisal to achieve the outcome in seven communes with a somewhat larger number of beneficiaries and hectares than planned.
2. There were initial delays in procurement with putting in place the Independent Procurement Agent, mainly due to coordination challenges
between the Government and IPA. This contributed to project delays, in the end totaling nearly two years. 3. The absence of technical expertise
to provide the required technical input led to further implementation delays that affected the process of transferring land to recipients. 4. The
preparation and approval of the Annual Work Plan and Budget was delayed. This affected the provision of IDA funding for settlement packages.
5. The lack of consensus on the three land sources created challenges in the identification, classification and registration of land for SLCs. This
created additional implementation impediments and reduced the overall options for land sources from the original three to predominantly just
one.
On balance Efficiency is rated Substantial based on the following. The incremental effect of the project was significant. The 20 year whole
project economic analysis found an incremental ERR of 32% (against the with-project ERR of only 10%, a with-project negative NPV and a BC
ratio less than 1) and it spent 84.5% of the cost estimated at appraisal to achieve the outcome in seven communes with larger number of
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



beneficiaries and hectares than planned, though some weaknesses was noted in its administrative/operational efficiency.
The appraisal and PAD figures are both given below for the record.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                               80.00
 Appraisal                                                                 20.00
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

                                                                                                               80.00
 ICR Estimate                                                              32.00
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project was technically restructured four times but the development objective was not revised during the project. The second restructuring in
2012 is considered the significant one for a before and after restructuring calculation of the overall outcome rating. At the time of this
restructuring, there was a substantial reduction the original number of communes, reduced from twenty to seven (nearly one third of the original
target). The overall outcome rating is based on ratings of relevance, efficacy and efficiency measured against the original objective and key
associated outcome targets and assessed over the entire duration of the project combined with the same assessment for the post-restructuring
period. Weighting the aggregate takes the two outcome ratings and weights on disbursement for the periods before and after restructuring.
Original ratings - The relevance of the project objective is rated Substantial and relevance of design is modest due to the shortcomings with
regards to the scope of the project. The efficacy of objective 1 is rated as Modest due to the useful initial progress, but is limited by only marginal
progress in the full committed coverage of the original design. The efficacy of objective 2 is rated Substantial given the evident progress of State
allocated land reform that was not limited by the project coverage. Efficiency is rated Substantial. Therefore the outcome is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.
Restructured ratings - The relevance of the (unchanged) project objective is rated substantial. The relevance of the revised design is rated
Substantial, on the grounds that the project responded to the reality on the ground at that point and did not appear to significantly narrow the
depth and spread of the learning experience by reaching a larger number of beneficiaries and undertaking demonstrations in technologies which
will have a spill-over effects in the neighboring communes. The efficacy of the first objective is rated Substantial due to its achievement in larger
number of beneficiaries and land area than planned, though there was narrowed spread of process experience at the commune level because of
reduced number of communes. The efficacy of the second objective is rated Substantial. Efficiency is rated Substantial. Given the above, the
outcome is rated Satisfactory.
Given these ratings the following split evaluation calculation is as follows: Pre-Restructure Disbursement = 60% Rating Moderately Satisfactory =
4 Post Restructure Disbursement = 40% Rating Satisfactory = 5
4 x 0.6 = 2.4 Pre 5 x 0.4 = 2.0 Post This results in a rating of 4.4 which rounds to an outcome value of 4 or Moderately Satisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



Effective implementation by Commune Councils is reliant on technical capacity and the availability of the required financial resources. Continued
capacity weaknesses at the sub-national level could compromise the replicability of the SLC identification process by the commune councils and
increase the probability of elite capture in the beneficiary selection process. At the time of the ICR, Government had provided land titles to 250
households (roughly 22% of the total applicants) who had met the eligibility criteria and the title applications for the remaining households were
still going through the Government’s land titling process. Given that the issuance of titles for the first group of land recipients took longer than
expected, delays in processing of the remaining land titles could risk the realization of the full economic benefits.
Further, the over-reliance on government systems could restrict opportunities for land recipients who require flexibility in a process that can meet
their evolving needs and circumstances. Lastly, in terms of sustainability of the infrastructure services, though the infrastructure was provided by
private contractors with supplemental support from the Department of Rural Development, the operations and maintenance of these are
dependent on the SLC communities, many of whom are still awaiting land titles to access the economic benefits to generate revenues. There is
therefore a serious question about O&M and the financial capacity to back it up.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Project preparation is reported in the PAD to have involved extensive consultations with beneficiaries, local communities, NGOs, large
     landholders, researchers, local and national officials, donors and technical specialists to understand land distribution issues affecting the
     poor. The preparation team was adequate in terms of skill mix and budget allocation. The preparation phase evidenced strong collaboration
     with the Government. Working with NGOs enabled transparency and oversight in the LR selection process.
     The project triggered six safeguards and measures to address them were designed as required by Bank policy. The safeguards were:
     OP/BP 4.01on Environment Assessment; OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats; OP/BP 4.36 on Forests; OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
     Resettlement; OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples and OP/BP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources.
     The design team did not fully consider area coverage by commune and the number of land recipients per communes while proposing the
     target number of communes. When the project was designed, the assumption was that LASED-SLC sites would be of smaller area and
     coverage. As the project resources were only sufficient to cover the existing seven communes, as part of the second restructuring, the
     target was reduced from twenty to seven communes. In project design, the team had overlooked that the stakeholders were unfamiliar with
     the SLC process and underestimated the extent of collaboration required to achieve the same. Stakeholder consensus was not fully
     considered while determining the three main sources for SLC land, partucularly in defining ‘degraded forests’, one of the three sources
     identified for land.
     In terms of risk identification, though risks were identified and mitigation measures developed, the Bank overlooked risks related to
     continued capacity weaknesses at the sub-national level, over-reliance on government systems and assigning the operation and
     maintenance (O&M) of the infrastructure services to the SLC communities who may need more time to secure returns from land, by which
     time, the infrastructure could deteriorate. With regard to the O&M, although the design recognized the importance of sequencing of
     activities and endorsed that infrastructure services had to be in place prior to land recipients moving into SLCs, the team did not adequately
     anticipate the length of time it would take to have services in place. (The use of a computerized project management system (CPM) might
     have helped phasing projections)
     While the indicators allowed measuring achievement of the development objective, they did not fully capture the pilot nature of the project.
     For instance there were no indicators to measure whether or not the pilot was successful in leading to a scaling up of the approach.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Regular implementation support missions were undertaken and the Bank maintained a consistent team of local and international staff and
     consultants to provide the needed specific expertise. As such, the task team was pro-active in responding to various issues in a timely
     manner and was responsive to the needs of the Borrower.
     The Bank closely supervised compliance with safeguards and the Bank safeguards team was part of each mission. The fiduciary team
     worked closely with the project team providing continuous guidance and technical support in light of challenges experienced with high
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



  fiduciary staff turnovers.
  The team was responsive to addressing key issues that arose during implementation through restructuring and adjusting expectations of
  breadth of coverage to reflect ground realities. In this regard, indicators in the results framework were amended to reflect the change and
  ensure tracking progress in the achievement of the development objective. The Mid Term Review mission was held on time.
  The project greatly benefitted from having a TTL based in Phnom Penh alongside other key technical staff who were field based. This
  enabled easy accessibility, quick decision making and timely provision of implementation guidance. Joint implementation and technical
  support missions with GIZ and NGOs ensured consistency in approach and alignment with expectations set.
  However, the Bank overlooked the need to: (i) revisit the original risk matrix to look at the risk level of sustaining the infrastructure
  investments; (ii) reconsider the time frame for title issuance and the phasing of returns from land; and (iii) include indicators to better
  capture the pilot nature of the project.



  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  Preparation revealed a high level of commitment from the government, the government working closely with the Bank. The ICR notes that
  the government had established the legislative platform and was flexible in adopting guidelines and means to support the project. The
  government set up working groups to work with communities to resolve implementation issues that could not be resolved at project level.
  The government replaced the Merit Based Performance Incentive scheme with a Priority Operating Costs scheme to ensure that the public
  delivery system continued to function as efficiently as possible in meeting the needs of the project.
  Government fell short of ensuring the availability of the three sources of land for SLCs. While land was sourced from degraded forest lands,
  land sourced from recovered illegally occupied lands was not utilized under the project as the legal status of the existing land occupants
  was unknown and no land was sourced from canceled economic land concessions. This reduced the options for land sources and in turn
  slowed the identification and registration process. Further, although the project was initiated in 2004, formal preparation was interrupted
  from 2005 – 2007 because government at that point disengaged and the preparation process was only completed in 2008.
  However, government commitment returned and continued to closure. The project is in the process of being scaled up with a follow-on
  LASED 2.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  Two responsible ministries were involved in implementation. There was a clear distinction of roles and responsibilities. But there were a
  number of issues. Not only the systems, procedures and processes were new to the implementing agencies (IAs) but they had to
  manage different institutional layers that were part of the implementation process to deliver the results. The team demonstrated strong
  commitment to the project and utilized much of the capacity support provided by GIZ to achieve results. The project complied with all
  legal covenants with the exception of undertaking an impact evaluation. The project team paid close attention to complying with
  safeguard measures, with no case of non-compliance reported. In terms of monitoring and evaluation, data was regularly collected and
  updated in the system.
  However, implementation fell short in several areas. The Baseline Survey was undertaken two and half years after project effectiveness
  and the gathered data was not well integrated for strategic decision making, thus reducing the usefulness of the M&E system.
  While the Independent Procurement Agent responsible for the majority of procurement packages was hired in a timely manner, the
  required technical expertise was lacking to provide procurement-related technical input. This led to implementation delays that affected
  land transition for land recipients. Further, the preparation and approval of the Annual Work Plan and Budget was delayed and this
  affected the provision of IDA funding for settlement packages.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The monitoring system was adequate to track progress of SLC implementation. The indicators were quantitative by nature.
   Initial baseline and livelihood surveys were not part of the design. This was completed in January 2011, two and a half years after project
   effectiveness. The project also carried out small (limited coverage) annual land recipient beneficiary livelihood surveys to assess different
   aspects of impact, including production, income, access to market, etc. The GIZ team carried out annual food security surveys using
   Household Food Insecurity Access Scale (HFIAS) and Mid Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC) methods to assess food security in
   LASED SLCs and control villages. This was in part to support their technical assistance efforts on land use and management planning.
   The design fell short of including indicators to track the achievement of the pilot approach.




b. M&E Implementation
   Implementation progress in settlement and development of SLC sites was assessed directly at the commune level. Data was entered into an
   excel spreadsheet database at the provincial level and compiled at the national level. The sub-national/provincial teams prepared quarterly
   reports to feed into the national level report and to update the M&E database on a quarterly basis.
   The M&E system became fully operational at the later stages of the project when an international consultant was recruited to develop a more
   comprehensive system and a manual. Once the monitoring system was established, an Excel database captured the development
   performance of the project through the quantitative indicators of the results framework as well as through additional SLC related indicators.
   Workshops were held with support from the World Bank and GIZ to assess lessons learned and produced documentation such as the
   “LASED Annual Lessons Learnt Workshop (2011)” and the “LASED Lessons Learnt and Experiences Workshop (2012)” listed in Annex 9.
   Surveys conducted such as the “LASED Limited Beneficiary Assessment Report (2014)” used randomized controls drawn from the baseline
   survey. Overall, the surveys and case studies provided evidence based information to assess project results.




c. M&E Utilization
   Quarterly reports generated from data collection were used for decision-making and evaluation purposes. The required quarterly, bi-annual
   and annual reports were generated using data from the M&E system. The project-led livelihood surveys used data drawn from the M&E
   system. M&E data was also used as a basis for the preparation of the project’s annual work plans and budgets (AWPB).




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified Category B. It triggered six safeguards and developed mitigation measures as required by the Bank. The
   triggered safeguards included: OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment; OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats; OP/BP 4.36 on Forests; OP/BP
   4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement; OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples and OP/BP 4.11 on Physical Cultural Resources.
   Environment:.
   An Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan was developed based on bottom-up planning at the commune level.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



  It incorporated several stages of screening in the land identification, registration and land use planning stages. These documents were
  prepared with Khmer and English translations and disclosed through the Bank’s Info-shop and in Cambodia as of January 21, 2008.
  Instead of following the traditional approach of assessing the overall design for its impacts and then planning mitigation and monitoring, the
  project’s environmental assessment was integrated into the commune-level planning approach for each SLC subproject. This included
  procedures for SLC site identification and planning land use and land development for livelihoods to minimize negative impacts on the
  natural and social environment.
  The early adoption of participatory land use planning guaranteed that proposed project sites were sourced from degraded forests and that
  the remaining forests within the SLC sites were defined in coordination with the Forestry Administration, relevant line departments, land
  recipients and Commune Councils. There was no conversion of community forests, water bodies or common green areas for residential and
  agricultural uses. Provincial LASED working groups were expanded to include Forest Administration, Environment, Water Resources and
  Meteorology, Rural Development, and Women Affairs. This ensured that environmental issues were considered and screened at the
  commune and provincial planning levels. Environmental impacts from land site and infrastructure development activities were negligible with
  mitigation measures factored into Environment Assessment and Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) in both design and contracts.
  Delineated community forestry areas were also well maintained by the beneficiaries (P.12 ICR).
  Social:
  The Project triggered OP/BP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement, OP/BP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples and OP/BP 4.11 on Physical cultural
  Resources. A Resettlement Policy Framework, Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, and Guideline on Cultural Heritage and Physical
  Cultural Resource Screening were developed with Khmer and English translations and disclosed through the Bank’s Info-shop and directly in
  Cambodia as of January 21, 2008.
  Project implementation was consistent with the Bank safeguard policies. The project endorsed an informed and transparent beneficiary
  selection procedure and cut-off date mechanism. The multiple objective criteria to assess potential eligible applicants protected all groups,
  including indigenous peoples. The design was to prevent discrimination in the selection process and enabled access to project benefits.
  Provincial “hotspots” maps were prepared to identify areas with environmental importance, UXO, Economic Land Concessions, indigenous
  peoples or cultural sites, so that these could be avoided in the selection of possible SLC sites. Families on identified SLC sites were provided
  with three options: (1) give up land and accept a SLC plot through the “lucky draw” procedure, (2) accept some adjustments of their existing
  plots to fit the SLC plan and become eligible for title and other SLC services, or (3) not join the SLC, in which case their existing land would
  be excluded from the SLC, but with access to the public services provided in the project sites including schools and health posts (p.12 ICR).
  No private land was acquired for the establishment of SLC sites. While a small proportion of land was initially identified from recovered
  illegally occupied lands for potential inclusion in the project SLC sites, the legal status of the existing land occupants was unknown. So, as
  noted earlier, this category of land was not included as potential SLC site under the project. After surveying such pieces of land, the existing
  land-users remained, but not as part of the potential SLC lands (P.12 ICR).
  Any issues that arose in the process were addressed through negotiation with local and provincial authorities. Guidelines related to avoiding
  land predominantly occupied by indigenous people (IP) population were complied with. Selection criteria included multiple objective criteria
  against which potential eligible applicants were assessed which protected all groups, including IPs, against discrimination in the selection
  process and allowed them to access project benefits (p.13 ICR)




b. Fiduciary Compliance
  Financial Management:
  The financial performance of the Project was rated Moderately Satisfactory during the course of project implementation (p.13 ICR).
  All audit opinions on the audited annual financial statements of NCDD and GSSLC were unqualified (clean) during the project period, though
  there were delays in the submission of some reports. Quarterly IFRs were prepared but they were often delayed due to time taken to
  consolidate technical aspects in the report.
  There was high turnover of FM consultants and counterpart staff during project implementation. While support from financial management
  consultants improved financial management performance, it was not adequate to effectively transfer critical FM skills and systematically build
  up capacity of project staff.
  Procurement:
  All procurement was carried out in accordance with provisions of the Bank’s Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
  The sub-national level procurement followed the Commune/Sangkat Fund Project Implementation Manual and the Guidelines on
  Commune/Sangkat Procurement. The procurement process for national level procurement (National Competitive Bidding) followed the
  Government’s Standard Operating Procedure and Procurement Manual for Externally Assisted Projects/Programs in Cambodia. These
  procedures and manuals were acceptable to IDA and broadly consistent with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines for Procurement
  under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits applicable to LASED Project (p.13 ICR). Procurement was consistent with the procurement approach at
  the time for all projects in the Cambodia portfolio.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



   NCDDS was responsible for: (i) procurement through the direct contracting method; (ii) procurement from UN agencies; and (iii) single
   source and sole source selection. Communes were allowed to procure only small packages (under $40,000 for civil works and $20,000 for
   goods) under Component II of the project. Procurement of the remaining packages were procured through the Independent Procurement
   Agent. There were coordination challenges between the Government and the Independent Procurement Agent. This led to procurement
   delays in the first year. There was no technical expertise to provide inputs for infrastructure procurement due to absence of a technical
   advisor. In addition, there was high turnover of procurement staff at NCDDS. Procurement progress improved significantly following the
   recruitment of national and international consultants who supported the training of procurement staff at the sub-national level. Post-reviews
   were carried out throughout project implementation and procedures were found to be in line with the Bank’s procurement guidelines.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                Despite the useful progress in
                                                                                                                the designated regions, given
                                                                                                                the considerable reduction in
                                                                                                                scope for the project the split
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                evlaution protocol results in a
                                                                                                                rating of MS as 60% of
                                                                                                                disbursements had been
                                                                                                                initiated prior to the restructure.
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       Substantial                         ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

1. Involving key stakeholders at the beginning of programs of social land concession identification can accelerate critical decisions
affecting registration. In this project, relevant authorities were not involved at the beginning stage of the process to assure stakeholder
consensus on land sources and streamline approval procedures for sourcing. This created delays in securing the approvals which led to
sourcing land only from degraded forests, only one of the three originally proposed sources.
2. Public-private partnership arrangements in social land concession projects should work with specialized service providers and
NGOs to complement Government efforts. The focus on livelihoods requires a more differentiated and flexible approach as the needs of
beneficiaries are constantly evolving. NGOs can play a critical role in not only weighing beneficiary needs against available resources, but
also acting as an interlocutor with line departments. NGOs can also support beneficiaries to take advantage of market opportunities to increase
household incomes.
3. A comprehensive and integrated livelihoods approach is required to truly transform landless and land-poor land program recipients
into smallholder farmers. Land recipients' needs are multifaceted including land title, safety nets, insurance, access to technologies, market
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       KH-Land Allocation for Soc.and Eco. Dev.(P084787)



information, and finance to invest in their lands. In order to maximize benefits from land use, a strategically planned, holistic, approach is
needed.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides an extensive coverage of project investments and problems faced. The reporting is consistent and offers a logical
progression. The section on lessons learnt is evidence based. Results reporting follows the causal chain and links project preparation with
implementation and completion. Stakeholders are well defined and the ICR reports their participation in the project cycle. The ICR records
poverty, gender and social elements addressed by the Project. Safeguard and fiduciary compliance is largely substantiated. The ICR
includes a Borrower ICR and records comments received from the Borrower on the draft ICR. The ICR does not adequately expand
acronyms.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
