Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2901-2 TU
              (Industrial Export Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 25, 1988
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2901-2 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 25,  1988 between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower,  having  been  satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  for the implementation of the same Project, the Bank has
agreed (i) to  extend  a  loan  to  Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
(TSKB) of the Borrower,  under  an agreement (TSKB Loan Agreement)
of even date herewith; and (ii)  to extend a loan to Sinai Yatirim
Ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB) of  the Borrower, under an agreement (SYKB
Loan Agreement) of even date herewith;
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank,  the Borrower has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of  each  of TSKB and SYKB in
respect of its Loan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Participating  Bank"  means  any  financial institution
operating in Turkey and  eligible  to  utilize the proceeds of the
Loan in the provision  of  Sub-loans  pursuant to the arrangements
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (c)  "Administrating Institutions" means TSKB and SYKB;
     (d)  "Sub-loan" means a loan in  the  amount of not less than
$400,000 made or  proposed  to  be  made  by a Participating Bank,
pursuant to the provisions by Schedule  4 to this Agreement, to an
Investment  Enterprise  for  the  carrying  out  of  an Investment
Project;
     (e)  "Investment  Enterprise"   means   an   export  oriented
enterprise to which a Participating  Bank  proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan;
     (f)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "TL"  or  "Turkish  Lira"  means  the  currency  of  the
Borrower;
     (h)  "FERIS"  means  the   Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Insurance
Scheme, operated by the Central  Bank  of the Borrower pursuant to
Decree No. 31, dated March  27,  1985,  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (i)  "TURK  EX-IM  Bank"  means  the  Export  Credit  Bank of
Turkey;
     (j)  "IGEME" means  the  Export  Promotion  Center, operating
under the  Borrower's  Undersecretariat  of  Treasury  and Foreign
Trade;
     (k)  "Administration Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered  into  between   the   Borrower   and  the  Administrating
Institutions pursuant to  the  provisions  of  Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement; and
     (l)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the TURK EX-IM Bank pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%)  per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
     (a)  assign the responsibility for the administration of Part
A of  the  Project  to  the  Administrating  Institutions under an
agreement (the Administration  Agreement)  to be concluded between
the Borrower and the  Administrating  Institutions under terms and
Page  4
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank, including those specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (b)  make  available  to   IGEME   the   amount  of  $500,000
equivalent, allocated  from  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project;
     (c)  relend to the  TURK  EX-IM  Bank  the amount of $900,000
equivalent, allocated  from  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  for the
carrying out of Part  C  of  the  Project, under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the TURK EX-
IM Bank which shall  provide,  inter  alia, for the obligations of
the TURK EX-IM Bank: (i)  to  repay  to the Borrower the amount so
onlent over the same  period  specified  for  the repayment of the
Loan under Schedule 3 to this Agreement and with commitment charge
and interest  at  the  same  rates  applicable  to  the Loan under
Sections 2.04 and 2.05, respectively,  of this Agreement; and (ii)
to make such repayment  of  principal  and payment of interest and
commitment charge in the same  amounts and currencies in which the
Borrower's debt service obligations,  with respect to such amount,
shall be payable to the Bank;
     (d)  include in the  arrangements  under  which  parts of the
proceeds of the Loan will be  made available to IGEME and the TURK
EX-IM Bank pursuant to  paragraphs  (b)  and (c) above, provisions
whereby IGEME and the TURK EX-IM  Bank shall: (i) carry out Part B
and Part C of  the  Project,  respectively, with due diligence and
efficiency, in accordance  with  appropriate technical, managerial
and financial practices and pursuant to a time schedule acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) provide to the Borrower and the
Bank semiannual reports on progress in their respective activities
under said Parts of the Project;  (iii) with respect to TURK EX-IM
Bank, procure the computer equipment  and materials to be financed
from the proceeds  of  the  Loan  for  purposes  of  Part C of the
Project, on the basis of  price  quotations obtained from not less
than three eligible suppliers; and (iv) employ, in order to assist
each in the  carrying  out  of  such activities, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank  on  the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency"  published  by  the Bank in August 1981;
and
     (e)  carry out the study provided under Part D of the Project
under terms of  reference  and  a  time-schedule  agreeable to the
Borrower and the Bank, and  employ,  by June 30, 1988, pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph  (d)(iv)  of this Section, consultants
to assist in the carrying out of said study.
     Section 3.02. The  Borrower  shall  exercise its rights under
the Administration Agreement and  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to: (a)  protect  the  interest of the Borrower and
the Bank; (b) comply  with  its  obligations under this Agreement;
and (c) achieve the objectives of the Project.
     Section 3.03. In order to  increase the efficiency of IGEME's
role in the  promotion  of  export,  the  Borrower  shall take, by
December 31, 1988, all  reasonable  action required: (i) to ensure
effective representation on  IGEME's  Board for private exporters;
and (ii) to strengthen the management of IGEME's operations.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall  consider, by June 30, 1988,
the  suitability  of  introducing  a  reference  rate  for foreign
currency loans to be provided  under  FERIS at a floating interest
rate.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  5
     Section 4.01. The  Borrower  shall  maintain  with respect to
Part  D  of  the  Project,  and  shall  cause  the  Administrating
Institutions, IGEME  and  the  TURK  EX-IM  Bank  to maintain with
respect  to  Parts  A,  B  and  C  of  the  Project, respectively,
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of  the  Project   and,   with   respect   to  the  Administrating
Institutions, of each Investment  Project  (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived  from  it) and to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices their
resources and operations with respect to the Project.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  cause the records  referred  to  in Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, and  records  and  accounts for the
               Special Account for each  fiscal year to be audited
               in  accordance   with   sound  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning the said  records  and  accounts and the
               audit thereof as the  Bank  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with Section 4.01  of  this  Agreement, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  either of  the  Administrating  Institutions  shall have
failed to perform any of  its obligations under the Administration
Agreement;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it  improbable  that either of the Administrating
Institutions will be  able  to  perform  its obligations under the
Page  6
Administration Agreement; and
     (c)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall   have   taken   any   action   for   the   dissolution   or
disestablishment of either  of  the Administrating Institutions or
for the suspension of its operation.
     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Administrating Institutions; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
TSKB Loan Agreement and  the  SYKB  Loan Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
     (b)  the Administration Agreement  has been concluded between
the Borrower and the Administrating Institutions; and
     (c)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been concluded between
the Borrower and the TURK EX-IM Bank.
     Section 6.02. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                    64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
Page  7
          Yenisehir - Ankara
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               HAZINE ANKARA                   821-42285 (MLYE-TR) 02
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                              REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                             By /s/ Hikmet Ulugbay
                                         Authorized Representative
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Credit under             98,500,000        Amounts disbursed
     Part A of                                  by the Participa-
     the Project                                ting Banks under
                                                Sub-loans for
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local ex-
                                                penditures
(2)  Goods, overseas             500,000
     training and
     Consultants'
     services under
     Part B of the
     Project:
     (a)  goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures
     (b)  overseas                              100%
          training and
          consultants'
          services
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Goods, overseas             900,000
     training and
     Consultants'
     services under
     Part C of the
     Project:
     (a)  goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures
     (b)  overseas                              100%
          training and
          consultants'
          services
(4)  Consultants'                100,000        100%
     services under
     Part D of the
     Project
                             ___________
                             100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower
in  its  efforts  to  expand   export  through  the  financing  of
investments in private, export  oriented industries in areas where
Turkey has a  comparative  advantage,  the  provision of increased
incentives  for  such  investments  and  the  improvement  of  the
institutional and procedural framework  for export finance; (b) to
strengthen the role of IGEME  in  the  promotion of export; (c) to
assist TSKB and SYKB  in  their operation diversification efforts;
and (d) to support  TSKB  in  the  implementation of its financial
restructuring program.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Credit
     Provision of credits  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Agreement,  for  financing  fixed  investments  and permanent
working capital needs of export oriented projects.
Part B:   IGEME
Page  9
     Implementation, with the assistance of advisers, of a program
to strengthen  the  role  of  IGEME  in  the  promotion of export,
including the restructuring of IGEME's management and the training
of its staff.
Part C:   TURK EX-IM Bank
     Implementation by the TURK EX-IM Bank, with the assistance of
advisers, as needed,  of  a  program:  (a)  to develop appropriate
procedures for  the  provision  of  medium-  and  long-term export
finance  and  the  operation  of  export  guarantee  and insurance
programs, including the training of staff on the implementation of
such program; and (b)  to  adopt  and  operate a trade information
system.
Part D    Study
     A  study  of  the  credit  delivery  systems  for  industrial
investments.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1992
     through   October 15, 2004                       3,845,000
On April 15, 2005                                     3,875,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
     Not more than three years                        .18         b
efore maturity
     More than three years but                        .35         n
ot more than six years
     before maturity
     More than six years but                          .65         n
ot more than eleven years
     before maturity
     More than eleven years but                       .88         n
Page  10
ot more than fifteen years
     before maturity
     More than fifteen years                         1.00         b
efore maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                     Management and Terms and
                      Conditions of Sub-loans
                    under Part A of the Project
A.   Administration of Part A of the Project
     The administration of the  credit  component  under Part A of
the Project shall be  assigned  under the Administration Agreement
to the Administrating  Institutions.  The Administration Agreement
shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby:
1.   Sub-loans shall be  provided  only  through the Participating
Banks selected in accordance  with  the  provisions of paragraph 2
below.
2.   Any commercial bank operating  in  Turkey which desires to be
selected as a Participating Bank  will  have to meet the following
eligibility  criteria:  (i)   a   sound  financial  condition  and
performance;  (ii)  an  unqualified  audited  financial statement,
audited by  external  auditors  approved  by  the  Central Bank of
Turkey;  and  (iii)  the   capacity   to  appraise  and  supervise
Investment  Projects,  or,  alternatively,  to  agree  to contract
adequate  technical  services  to  assist  in  the  appraisal  and
supervision of Investment  Projects  proposed  for their financing
under the Project.
3.   In  order  to  enable   the   widest  possible  selection  of
Participating  Banks   for   the   provision   of  Sub-loans,  the
Administrating Institutions shall prepare, promptly after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  a  circular  for  distribution among the
commercial banks operating in Turkey which shall indicate: (i) the
eligibility criteria for  participation  referred  to in paragraph
(2) above; and (ii) the purposes  of the Project and the terms and
conditions under which Sub-loans shall be provided.
4.   The  Administrating   Institutions   shall   act   under  the
Administration Agreement solely  as  administrators  to enable, on
behalf of the Borrower, the utilization by the Participating Banks
of the proceeds of the  Loan  allocated  for the provision of Sub-
loans under Part  A  of  the  Project;  therefore (i) the Borrower
shall bear all financial  obligations  due  on  the Loan under the
provisions of  the  Loan  Agreement;  and  (ii)  all  debt service
payments by the Participating Banks  with respect to the amount of
the Loan utilized in the  provision  of Sub-loans shall be made by
the Participating  Banks,  through  the Administrating Institution
concerned, to the Borrower.
5.   To assist in defraying the administration cost assumed by the
Administrating Institutions  under  the  Administration Agreement,
each Administrating Institution shall charge, with respect to Sub-
loans approved by it,  the  Participating Bank providing such Sub-
loans an annual fee  amount  equivalent  to  1/2% (one-half of one
percent) of the outstanding amount  of  such Sub-loans, to be paid
in two approximately equal  installments  at  the beginning and at
the middle of each year.
6.   In order to compensate the Borrower for its assumption of the
commitment charge on the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement, the Administrating  Institutions  shall transfer to the
Borrower the fee amount to  be charged by the Participating Banks,
pursuant to the provision  of  Part  B.4  of this Schedule, at the
rate of 1.5% of the principal amount of the Sub-loans.
7.   Except as the Borrower  and  the  Bank shall otherwise agree,
Page  11
each Participating Bank shall be  entitled to provide Sub-loans in
an aggregate amount not  exceeding  the equivalent of $15,000,000;
there shall not be included in this aggregate amount, however, the
amount  of  any  Sub-loan  provided  by  a  Participating  Bank to
cofinance an Investment  Project  for  which financing is provided
under the TSKB Loan Agreement or the SYKB Loan Agreement.
8.   The Participating Banks  shall  be  required  to apply in the
provision and administration of Sub-loans the rules and procedures
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
9.   Applications and requests for  approval  of Sub-loans and for
withdrawal of the proceeds  of  the  Loan  on account of Sub-loans
shall  be  prepared  by  the  Participating  Banks  and presented,
through the Administrating Institution concerned, to the Bank.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
1.   Except as the Bank shall  otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be
provided only to Investment  Enterprises  in the private sector of
the Borrower, which shall be defined  for this purpose to mean any
enterprise the  majority  share  capital  of  which  is  not held,
individually  or  collectively,  by  the  Borrower,  including its
political or administrative divisions,  or by economic enterprises
the majority share capital of which is held by the Borrower.
2.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree: (i) no Sub-loan
shall be provided in an  amount exceeding the lesser of $4,000,000
equivalent or 20%  of  the  net  worth  of  the Participating Bank
concerned which shall mean, for this purpose, the unimpaired paid-
in  capital  of  such  Participating  Bank  plus  its  accumulated
reserves; and (ii) no Sub-loan shall be provided for the financing
of a single Investment  Project  if,  after  the provision of such
Sub-loan, the aggregate amount  provided  from the proceeds of the
Loan, the TSKB Loan and  the  SYKB  Loan for the financing of such
Investment Project shall exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
3.   Except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Administrating
Institutions shall require each  Participating Bank: (a) to charge
on each Sub-loan denominated  in  foreign currency (i) interest on
the principal amount of the  Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding at
a floating annual rate which  shall  exceed  by not more than four
percentage  points  the  interest  rate  applicable  to  the  Loan
pursuant to Section 2.05 of  this Agreement, and (ii) a commitment
fee  on  the  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Sub-loan  at  the rate
specified in Section 2.04  of  this  Agreement;  and (b) charge on
each Sub-loan denominated  in  Turkish  Lira  (i)  interest on the
amount of the Sub-loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  at a fixed or
floating annual rate, at the  option of the Investment Enterprise,
to be determined in either  case  in accordance with the rules and
procedures prescribed in the FERIS,  and  (ii) a commission fee on
the amount of the Sub-loan  withdrawn  and outstanding at the rate
of 2% per annum.
4.   In addition  to  the  charges  referred  to  in paragraph (3)
above,  the   Administrating   Institutions   shall   require  the
Participating Banks  to  charge  on  each  Sub-loan  a  fee amount
representing 1.5% of the principal  amount  of the Sub-loan, to be
collected at  the  time  of  signing  the  contract  therefor. The
amounts collected on  account  of  such  fees shall be immediately
transferred by the Participating Banks, through the Administrating
Institution concerned, to the Borrower.
5.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no expenditures for
goods or services  required  for  an  Investment  Project shall be
eligible for financing out of the  proceeds of the Loan unless the
Sub-loan for such Investment  Project  shall have been approved by
the Bank and such  expenditures  shall  have been made not earlier
than ninety days prior to  the  date  on which the Bank shall have
received the application and  information required under paragraph
6 (a) and (b) below in respect of such Sub-loan:
Page  12
6.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the
Participating  Banks  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank,  through  the
Administrating   Institution   concerned,   an   application  form
satisfactory to the Bank, together  with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an  appraisal of the Investment Project,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan;  (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of  the  Sub-loan,  including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; (iii) whenever relevant, a statement
as to the  environmental  impact  of  the Investment Project, and,
when necessary, the remedial action  to  be taken in this respect;
and (iv)  such  other  information  as  the  Bank shall reasonably
request.
     (b)  Each request  to  be  made  by  the  Participating Banks
through the Administrating  Institutions pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a) of this paragraph 6 shall contain an export plan demonstrating
to the satisfaction of the Bank (i) with respect to any Investment
Project undertaken for the  expansion of existing facilities, that
not less than 20%  of  the  incremental  production or services of
such Investment Project would be  exported within three years from
the start of its operation; (ii) with respect to the establishment
of a new Investment  Enterprise,  that  not  less  than 20% of the
products or services of  such  Enterprise would be exported within
five years from the start of its operation; and (iii) with respect
to an Investment  Project  for  the  balancing or modernization or
rehabilitation  of  existing   facilities,   that  the  Investment
Enterprise requesting the Sub-loan is currently exporting not less
than 20% of its products  or  services. An indirect exporter shall
be eligible for a Sub-loan  when  it  is established in the export
plan that such  indirect  exporter  is  currently selling not less
than  20%  of  its  products  to  exporters  eligible  under  this
paragraph or that not less  than 20% of the incremental production
resulting  from  its  expansion  under  an  Investment  Project is
expected to be sold to such exporters.
     (c)  The Participating Banks  shall  be required to calculate
the economic and  financial  rates  of  return  for any Investment
Project, and require, as a  condition for providing a Sub-loan for
the financing of  such  Investment  Project,  an  economic rate of
return of not less than 15%, and a financial rate of return of not
less than 15%, measured after adjustment for inflation, throughout
the useful life of the  Investment Project, in accordance with the
Wholesale Price Index of the Borrower.
     (d)  Applications made  pursuant  to  the  provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph  6  shall be presented to the Bank
on or before December 31, 1990.
7.   The Participating Banks  shall  make  the  Sub-loans on terms
whereby the Participating Banks  shall obtain, by written contract
with the  Investment  Enterprise  or  by  other  appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect  the  interests of the Bank, the
Borrower and the Participating Banks, including, the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also  of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency  and  reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering  them;  (ii)  the procurement of goods or
works under contracts  estimated  each  to  cost the equivalent of
$2,500,000  or  more  shall  be  undertaken  under  procedures for
limited international  bidding  satisfactory  to the Participating
Bank concerned; and (iii)  such  goods  and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
Page  13
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Administrating Institutions and  the  Bank  if the Bank or the
Administrating Institutions shall so  request,  such goods and the
sites, works, plants and  construction  included in the Investment
Project, the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or
the Participating Bank  shall  reasonably  request relating to the
foregoing and  to  the  administration,  operations  and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise  and  to the benefits to be
derived from the Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with the Participating Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories 1, 2
and 3 set forth in the table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out  of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Page  14
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of the General  Conditions  shall  be  equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining  unwithdrawn  amount  of   the   Loan  shall  follow  such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank for
crediting to the Loan Account)  an  amount  equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the  Bank  into the Special Account shall be
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank suchoutstanding amount 
for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the  Guarantor,  terminate  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to make
Page  15
withdrawals with respect to such  amount.  Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the  end  of  Section  6.03  are  deleted  and  the  following  is
substituted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 5 (d) of  Schedule  4  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan: (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraph (a) or  (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower,  terminate  the right of the
          Borrower to submit such  applications  or requests or to
          make withdrawals from the Loan  Account, as the case may
          be, with respect to such  amount or portion of the Loan.
          Upon the giving of  such  notice, such amount or portion
          of the Loan shall be cancelled."
