Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2901-1 TU
              (Industrial Export Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI
                      Dated January 25, 1988
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2901-1 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SINAI YATIRIM VE
KREDI BANKASI (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS  (A)  Republic  of  Turkey  (the  Guarantor)  and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  1  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  for the implementation of the same Project, the Bank has
agreed: (i) to extend a loan  to the Guarantor, under an agreement
(the Government Loan Agreement) of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the Guarantor; and (ii) to extend a loan to Turkiye Sinai
Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB) of the  Guarantor under an agreement (TSKB
Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the Bank and TSKB;
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the  obligations  of  each of the Borrower and
Page  2
TSKB in respect of its Loan; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
     (b)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
made or  proposed  to  be  made  in  an  amount  not exceeding the
equivalent of  $2,500,000  when  added  to  any  other outstanding
amounts provided or proposed to be provided out of the proceeds of
the Loan for  the  same  Investment  Project; the foregoing amount
being subject to change from time to time as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank;
     (c)  "Investment Enterprise" means  an export oriented enter-
prise to which the Borrower  proposes  to  make or has made a Sub-
loan;
     (d)  "Investment Project" means  a  specific development pro-
ject to be carried out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (e)  "Statutes" means  the  Statutes  of  the Borrower, dated
March 16, 1963, as amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Statement of  Policy"  means  the  statement  of policy
approved by the Board of Directors  of the Borrower on January 15,
1979, as amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "TL"  and  "Turkish  Lira"  means  the  currency  of the
Guarantor;
     (i)  "FERIS"  means  the   Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Insurance
Scheme, operated by the Central  Bank of the Guarantor pursuant to
Decree No. 31, dated March  27,  1985,  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (j)  "IGEME" means  the  Export  Promotion  Center, operating
under the  Guarantor's  Undersecretariat  of  Treasury and Foreign
Trade;
     (k)  "Subsidiary" means any company  of which the majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietory interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the  Borrower or by one or more
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of
its subsidiaries; and
     (l)  "TURK  EX-IM  Bank"  means  the  Export  Credit  Bank of
Page  3
Turkey.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts  paid  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the  Borrower on account of withdrawals made
by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or Investment to meet
100% of foreign  expenditures  and  60%  of local expenditures for
goods and services required for  the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal from  the  Loan Account is requested; pro-
vided, however, that no withdrawal  shall  be made: (i) in respect
of a  Sub-loan  not  made  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  For the purpose of  paragraph  (a)  of this Section: (i)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in any currency
other than that of  the  Guarantor  for goods or services supplied
from the territory of  any  country  other  than  that of the Gua-
rantor; and (ii) the  term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special account in the
Central Bank of the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  per  annum  above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as  practicable  after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement,  as  such  Schedule 2 shall be
amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:
     (a)  conform in relevant part  substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans; and
     (b)  take into account  any  cancellation pursuant to Article
VI of the General Conditions  and  any repayments made by the Bor-
rower under Section 2.08 of this Agreement; provided that any such
amendments to the amortization  schedule permitted hereunder shall
not authorize  repayments  of  the  principal  amount  of the Loan
beyond the latest repayment  date  set  forth  in such Schedule 2.
Such amendments of said Schedule 2 shall include amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
     Section 2.08. Unless the  Bank  and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance  of  maturity  or  if  a  Sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the  Borrower,  the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank  and  shall  repay  to  the  Bank  on  the next following
interest payment date,  together  with  the  premiums specified in
Schedule 3 to this  Agreement  or  in  any amendment thereof under
Section 2.07 (a) of this  Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of  such  Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
     (b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the  maturity  or  maturities  of  the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts  of the maturity or matu-
rities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
     (c)  Paragraph (b) of Section  3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment  made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out its activities under
Part A of the Project  and  conduct  its operations and affairs in
accordance with  sound  financial  standards  and  practices, with
qualified management and  personnel,  and  in  accordance with the
Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement;  and  (iii)  achieve the purposes of
the Project.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank semi-
annual reports, prepared on the  basis of a format satisfactory to
the Bank, on the status  of  the Borrower's operation and finance,
including a projection of  its  financial situation, a description
Page  5
of its  operational  targets  and  an  assessment  of  progress in
utilizing the proceeds of the Loan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  procedures and
records  adequate  to  monitor  and  record  the  progress  of its
activities under Part  A  of  the  Project  and of each Investment
Project (including its cost  and  the  benefits to be derived from
it) and  to  reflect  in  accordance  with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the  operations and financial condition
of the Borrower.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, its  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  and records and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited  in  accordance  with  sound auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of said
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the said records, accounts and financial state-
               ments and the audit thereof  as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be  necessary to protect itself against risks
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the currencies used in its operations.
     Section 4.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Page  6
Borrower shall: (a)  conduct  its  operations  and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary  to  maintain, at all times, starting
in April 1,  1988,  its  debt/equity  ratio  and its debt coverage
ratio within the limits referred  to  in Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of
this Agreement, respectively; and (b) if any such ratio shall, for
reasons beyond the Borrower's  control, be exceeded, promptly take
all such reasonable action as  shall  be necessary or advisable to
bring such ratio within such limit.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring  of  such debt, the consolidated debt
of the Borrower and  all  its  Subsidiaries then incurred and out-
standing would exceed ten times  the consolidated capital and sur-
plus of the Borrower and all its Subsidiaries.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term  "debt"  means  any  debt  incurred by the
               Borrower or any  Subsidiary  maturing more than one
               year after  the  date  on  which  it  is originally
               incurred, including debt  assumed  or guaranteed by
               the Borrower or by a Subsidiary;
         (ii)  debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment, on  the  date, and to the ex-
               tent, the amount of  such debt has become outstand-
               ing pursuant to such contract, agreement or instru-
               ment; and (B) under  a  guarantee agreement, on the
               date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
               been  entered  into  but  only  to  the  extent the
               guaranteed debt is outstanding;
        (iii)  the term "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all
               its Subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
               the Borrower  and  all  its Subsidiaries, including
               any debt owed by  the Borrower to its shareholders,
               but excluding any debt owed  by the Borrower to any
               Subsidiary or by any  Subsidiary to the Borrower or
               to any other Subsidiary;
         (iv)  the term "consolidated  capital  and surplus of the
               Borrower and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggre-
               gate of the  total unimpaired paid-in-capital, sur-
               plus and free  reserves  (including the revaluation
               fund, if  any)  of  and  subordinated  loans to the
               Borrower and all  its  Subsidiaries after excluding
               therefrom such  amounts  as  shall represent equity
               interests of the Borrower in any Subsidiary, or any
               such Subsidiary in  the  Borrower  or  in any other
               Subsidiary;
          (v)  the term  "subordinated  loan"  means  any  debt to
               mature after the  maturity  of any debt outstanding
               from time to time  from creditors other than share-
               holders of the Borrower  and its Subsidiaries, such
               debt to be repaid in accordance with its terms only
               after all  claims  from  such  creditors  have been
               satisfied;
         (vi)  whenever for purposes of  this  Section it shall be
               necessary to value  in  terms  of Turkish Lira debt
               payable in another  currency,  such valuation shall
               be made on the basis  of the prevailing lawful rate
               of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
               time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
               of servicing such debt, or,  in the absence of such
               rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Bank; and
Page  7
        (vii)  amounts payable to  the  Borrower under any foreign
               exchange risk coverage  scheme  of the Guarantor or
               under currency swap  arrangements shall be deducted
               in calculating the amount of the Borrower's debt.
     Section 4.06. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain a debt  service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.1. Such ratio shall  be  calculated  by dividing the sum of
the Borrower's net  income  after  tax, interest payments adjusted
for taxes, provisions for losses  and  loan collections by the sum
of the Borrower's  repayments  of  debt  and payments of interest,
adjusted for taxes.
     Section 4.07. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not make  any  repayment  in advance of maturity in
respect of any of its  debt  which,  in  the judgment of the Bank,
would materially affect the Borrower's  ability to meet its finan-
cial obligations.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any part of  the  principal  amount  of  any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have  become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided  in  the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
     (b)  a change shall have been made  in the Statutes or in the
Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent; and
     (c)  a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or  taken  over  by  the  Borrower,  if such creation,
acquisition or taking over  would  adversely affect the conduct or
the efficiency of the Borrower's  business or  financial condition
or the efficiency of  the  Borrower's  management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (c)  of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue  for  a  period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent  to the effectiveness of the
Government Loan Agreement and the  TSKB Loan Agreement, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is  hereby specified for the purpose of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
                           Miscellaneous
     Section  7.01.  The  General   Manager  of  the  Borrower  is
Page  8
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Sinai Yatirim Ve Kredi Bankasi
          Barbaros Bulvari 41
          Besiktas, Istanbul, 80690
          Turkey
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               YATIRIMBANK                   SYKB 26263 TR
               Istanbul
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Hans-Eberhard Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                        SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI
                        By /s/ Hikmet Ulugbay
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are: (a) to assist the Guaran-
tor in its  efforts  to  expand  export  through  the financing of
investments in private, export  oriented  industries in areas when
Turkey has a  comparative  advantage,  the  provision of increased
incentives for such investments and  the improvement of the insti-
tutional and  procedural  framework  for  export  finance;  (b) to
strengthen the role of IGEME  in  the  promotion of export; (c) to
assist the Borrower  and  TSKB  in their operation diversification
efforts; and (d)  to  support  TSKB  in  the implementation of its
financial restructuring program.
Page  9
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Guarantor,  the Bank and the Borrower
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Credit
     Provision of credit,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Agreement,  for  financing  fixed  investments  and permanent
working capital needs of export oriented projects.
Part B:   IGEME
     Implementation,  with   the   assistance   of   advisers,  in
accordance with the provisions  of  the Government Loan Agreement,
of a program to strengthen the  role  of IGEME in the promotion of
export, including the restructuring  of IGEME's management and the
training of its staff.
Part C:   TURK EX-IM Bank
     Implementation by the TURK EX-IM Bank, with the assistance of
advisers, as necessary, of  a  program: (a) to develop appropriate
procedures for  the  provision  of  medium-  and  long-term export
finance  and  the  operation  of  export  guarantee  and insurance
programs, including the training of staff on the implementation of
such program; and (b)  to  adopt  and  operate a trade information
system.
Part D:   Study
     A  study  of  the  credit  delivery  systems  for  industrial
investments.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Amortization Schedule*
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1992
     through   October 15, 2004                    1,925,000
On April 15, 2005                                  1,875,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to
     the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent deter-
     mined as of the  respective  dates of withdrawal. See General
     Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
Page  10
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
     Not more than three                         .18
          before maturity
     More than three years but                   .35
          not more than six years
          before maturity
     More than six years but                     .65
          not more than eleven years
          before maturity
     More than eleven years but                  .88
          not more than fifteen years
          before maturity
     More than fifteen years                    1.00
          before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 5 (e) of  Schedule  4  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan: (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                           of Sub-loans
1.   Except as the Bank  may  otherwise  agree, Sub-loans shall be
provided only to Investment Enterprises the majority share capital
of each is not held,  individually or collectively, by the Guaran-
tor, including its  political  or  administrative divisions, or by
economic enterprises the majority shares  of which are held by the
Guarantor.
2.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the amount of a
Sub-loan or  Sub-loans  provided  for  the  financing  of a single
Investment Project from the  proceeds  of  the Loan, the TSKB Loan
and the Government  Loan  shall  not  exceed  in the aggregate the
equivalent of $15,000,000.
3.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) charge on each  Sub-loan  denominated  in foreign currency (i)
interest on the  principal  amount  of  the Sub-loan withdrawn and
outstanding at a floating  annual  rate  which shall exceed by not
Page  11
more than four percentage  points  the interest rate applicable to
the Loan pursuant to Section  2.05  of  this Agreement, and (ii) a
commitment on the unwithdrawn amount  of  the Sub-loan at the rate
specified in Section 2.04  of  this  Agreement;  and (b) charge on
each Sub-loan denominated  in  Turkish  Lira  (i)  interest on the
amount of the Sub-loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  at a fixed or
floating rate, at the option  of  the Investment Enterprise, to be
determined  in  either  case  in  accordance  with  the  rules and
procedures prescribed in the FERIS,  and  (ii) a commission fee on
the amount of the Sub-loan  withdrawn  and outstanding at the rate
of 2% per annum.
4.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the  Bank  and,  except  as  the  Bank shall otherwise
agree, such expenditures  shall  have  been  made not earlier than
ninety days  prior  to  the  date  on  which  the  Bank shall have
received the application and  information required under paragraph
5 (a) and (c) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 5 (b) and (c)  of this Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan.
5.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in  form  satisfactory  to the Bank, together
with: (i)  a  description  of  the  Investment  Enterprise  and an
appraisal of the  Investment  Project,  including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed  terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including  the   schedule   of   amortization   of  the  Sub-loan;
(iii) whenever  relevant,  a  statement  as  to  the environmental
impact of the Investment Project and, when necessary, the remedial
action to be taken in  this  respect; and (iv) such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the  schedule  of   amortization   therefor;  and  (iii)  whenever
relevant, a  statement  as  to  the  environmental  impact  of the
Investment Project and, when necessary,  the remedial action to be
taken in this respect.
     (c)  Each request to be made by the Borrower pursuant to sub-
paragraphs (a) and (b) of  this  paragraph shall contain an export
plan demonstrating  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Bank: (i) with
respect to any Investment Project  undertaken for the expansion of
existing facilities, that  not  less  than  20% of the incremental
production  or  services  of  such  Investment  Project  would  be
exported within  three  years  from  the  start  of its operation;
(ii)  with  respect  to  the  establishment  of  a  new Investment
Enterprise, that not less than 20%  of the products or services of
such Enterprise would be exported within five years from the start
of its operation; and (iii)  with respect to an Investment Project
for the balancing or  modernization  or rehabilitation of existing
facilities, that the Investment Enterprise requesting the Sub-loan
is currently  exporting  not  less  than  20%  of  its products or
services. An indirect exporter  shall  be  eligible for a Sub-loan
when it is  established  in  the  export  plan  that such indirect
exporter is currently selling not less than 20% of its products to
Page  12
exporters eligible under this paragraph  or that not less than 20%
of the incremental production  resulting  from its expansion under
an Investment Project is expected to be sold to such exporters.
     (d)  The Borrower shall calculate  the economic and financial
rates of return for any  Investment Project, and shall require, as
a condition for providing  a  Sub-loan  for  the financing of such
Investment Project, an economic  rate  of  return of not less than
15%, and a financial rate of return of not less than 15%, measured
after adjustment for inflation, throughout  the useful life of the
Investment Project, in accordance  with  the Wholesale Price Index
of the Guarantor.
     (e)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1990.
6.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also  of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency  and  reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering  them;  (ii)  the procurement of goods or
works under contracts  estimated  each  to  cost the equivalent of
$2,500,000  or  more  shall  be  undertaken  under  procedures for
limited international bidding  satisfactory  to  the Borrower; and
(iii) such goods and  services  shall  be  used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to  perform  its  obligations under its con-
tract with the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Investment Projects and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this
Agreement, provided, however,  that notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph 4 (b) of  Schedule  4 to this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-
loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  in respect
thereof. Such  expenditures,  however,  shall  qualify as eligible
expenditures only if  the  Bank  shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $5,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan  Account  and deposit in the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account, and in the respec-
tive equivalent  amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified by the
evidence supporting the  request  for  such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of the General  Conditions  shall  be  equal to the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
Page  14
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan  shall follow such proce-
dures as the Bank shall  specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized  in  making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank for
crediting to the Loan Account)  an  amount  equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the  Bank  into the Special Account shall be
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
