                                                                               49106

     THE SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINESHIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND
                                   CONTROLPROJECT
                                        PE-PO76799

                              DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR

                                    PROJECTPAPER


Country: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines     Sector Managermirector:Keith E.Hansen
ProjectName: HIV/AIDS Preventionand           CountryDirector: Yvonne Tsikata
                                              Environmentalcategory:B

Recipient: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Responsible agency: Ministry ofHealth and Environment
Revisedestimateddisbursements (Bank FY/ USDm)




Current closingdate: 06/30/2009                                  __p_




Project development objective/outcomes




                   Source                                       Total
IBRD 72510                                                     USD 3.50
IDA 39460                                                      USD 1.75
IDA HI110                                                      USD 1.75
Total                                                          USD 7.00




                                                                                    1


                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                  PROPOSALTO RESTRUCTURE
       THE SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND
                                        CONTROL PROJECT
                                               PE-PO76799

     I. INTRODUCTION

 1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Regional Vice President to introduce
 changes in the Legal Agreements for Saint Vincent and the Grenadines HIV/AIDS Prevention
 and Control Project (the Project)(Loan 7251-SV,Credit 3946-SV and Grant H1110-SV).

 2.       The proposed restructuringconsists of amendingthe Loan Agreement, the Development
 Credit Agreement and the DevelopmentGrant Agreement (collectively "the Legal Agreements")'
 to: (a) permit the financing o f works under the Project, some of which were not originally
 contemplated in the Project Appraisal Document(PAD), which consist of: (i)the construction of
 an orphanage under Component 1 (Civil Society OrganizationInitiatives), (ii)the renovation of
 an HIV/AIDS Resource Center at Ministry o f Education under Component 2 (Scaling Up
 HIV/AIDS Response by Line Ministries), (iii)the upgradingof health facilities under Component
 3 (Strengthening the Health Sector Responses to HIV/AIDS), and (iv) the renovation of the
National AIDS Secretariat (NAS) building under Component 4 (Strengthening the Institutional
 Capacity for Program Management); (b) reallocate Loan, Credit and Grant funds among
 disbursement categories of eligible expenditures to address the increase of Project costs and
 future needs of the Project; (c) introduce the pertinent environmentalhocial covenant, as
applicable, to the works mentionedin (a) (i)herein; (d) reflect the proposedchanges in (a) (i) in
the Procurementschedule; and (e) extend the Closing Date from June 30, 2009 to December 31,
2010.

3.       The proposed changes will not affect the original Project Development Objective (PDO)
or the associated outcome targets. The proposed Closing Date extension will allow the
completion of some Project activities that require more time in order to meet the PDO. The
proposed reallocationtakes the needs of the components and priority activities into account and
will use available funds more efficiently. The proposed amendments are in response to the
correspondence dated January 7 and March 17, 2009 from the Government of Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines (see attachments).

     11.     BACKGROUND AND REASONSFOR RESTRUCTURING

A. Background

4.       On July 6, 2004, the Board approved the Project with financing consisting o f a US$3.5
million Loan, a US$1.88 million (equivalent) Credit, and a US$2 million (equivalent) Grant. On
August 17, 2004 the Legal Agreements in support of the financing of the HIV/AIDS Prevention
and Control Project were signed. The Legal Agreements became effective on January 14, 2005.
The original Project Closing Date is June 30, 2009.


' Please notethat the pertinentprovisions inthe LoanAgreement relatedto Project executionare
incorporatedinto the Development Credit Agreement andthe DevelopmentGrant Agreement.

                                                                                               2

B. ProjectPerformanceto Date

5.      As of May 25, 2009, US$3.3 million of the combined BankADA funds (46 percent) had
been disbursed and total disbursements and commitments amount to about 50 percent. The
Project is currently rated "Moderately Satisfactory" on both achievement of PDOs and
ImplementationPerformance. After a very slow start, the Project has continued to make progress
especially after the June 2007 Mid-Term Review. The slow start was due in part to Project
Management having faced a steep learningcurve on how to deal with multiple stakeholders in the
multi-sectorresponse needed to effectively address HIV/AIDS, and in part to coordinationissues
betweenthe Project CoordinationUnit and the National AIDS Secretariat; those issues have since
been satisfactorily addressed and both agencies are now working well together.

6.      Despite delays, there has been progress in meeting the PDO. The Project has exceeded
some of its PDO-related indicators. For example, according to available data in 2008, 98% of
adults and children with HIV are still alive after initiation of Anti-retroviral therapy-this    is
higher than the closing date target of 75%. Moreover, there were only 68 reported new HIV
cases in 2008 and 85 cases in 2007, indicating that the Project has already met its closing date
target of less than 100. Based on progress made in the IP related indicators, the Project seems to
be on track to meet most of its targets although some of them may not be attained by the current
project closing date o f June 30, 2009. For example, as of December 2008, 3,557 persons have
been tested for HIV, exceedingthe project's target of 2,000. All pregnant women are now tested
and counseled as part of ante-natal care. The Project has already reached its target o f having 9
non-health line ministries that are implementing their work plans according to the National
Strategic Plan, and it is close to reaching its target of supporting 15 civil society organizations
(CSOs) providing care and support activities since it is currently funding 14 of them. The Project
has also funded a wide range of voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) and HIVIAIDS-
supportive infrastructureincluding: renovationof laboratoriesand treatment and care rooms at the
Milton Cat0 General Hospital; as well as renovations and some minor constructionto support 18
VCT facilities.

C. Reasonsfor Project Restructuring

7.      Need to Align the Legal Agreements with the PAD and Agreements with Government
Made during Project Implementation. The recent review of the PAD and the Loan Agreement
for which pertinent provisions relatedto Project executionare incorporatedinto the Development
Credit Agreement and the DevelopmentGrant Agreement, indicate that some civil works, i.e.,
the constructionof the Breadof Life orphanage, the renovation of an HIV/AIDS Resource Center
at the Ministry of Education (MoE), the upgrading of the Stubbs Health Center into a polyclinic,
and the renovationof the NAS building were not originally contemplatedin the PAD. In addition,
the refurbishmentof 18 VCT rooms mentioned in the PAD was not incorporated into the Legal
Agreements. In order to permit the financing of said activities with Loan, Credit and Grant
proceeds, and to ensure consistency amongthe Project documents and the Legal Agreements, the
Legal Agreements need to be amendedaccordingly.

8.      The reasons for various renovationsadded to the projectare as follows:

            a.   TheNAS building. At the time of project appraisal and negotiations,the Minister
                 of Health believed that offices for the additional staff would be available in the
                 Ministry. However at the end of the first year of implementation, it became
                 evident that the Project was being more successful and expanding more quickly
                 than anticipated and that it was necessary to find office space in a different

                                                                                                 3

                 location. A building was then remodeled to house the HIV/AIDS staff, and
                 renovationwas completed in May 2007.

             b. The HIV/AIDS Resource Center at the Ministry of Education consists of two
                 rooms that were renovated for the curriculum unit. Renovationof the rooms was
                 to be done under the Bank-funded Education Project, but only one room was
                 completed.The HIV/AIDSProjectthen renovatedthe second room.

             c. The Stubbs Health Center was one of three health facilities to be upgraded to
                 decentralize treatment services for AIDS patients. The Government decided to
                 decentralize treatment after the start of the Project when ARV drugs became
                 available and medical staff was being trained in treating AIDS patients. Two
                 health centers were financed by the Government and the Stubbs Health Center
                 underthis Project.

9.       Need to include in the disbursement table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to tlze Loan
Agreement thefinancing of "works" under Subprojects. The only new constructionthat will be
supported by the Project within the extended Closing Date is the Bread of Life Orphanage
(BoLO) under Component 1. The Project preparation team did not specify this particular civil
works because of the demand driven nature of this Component design. The PAD indicatesthat
Component 1 (Civil Society OrganizationInitiatives) of the Project will support eligible CSOs to
respondeffectively to the HIV/AIDS epidemic throughthe financing of Subprojects.The types of
activities to be financed through approved proposals submitted by CSOs include support for
orphans; however the PAD did not contemplatethe financing o f works. The decision to finance
BoLO was discussed during the July 2005 mission. The mission Aide-memoire of December
2006 recorded the need for expanding capacity at the orphanage to accommodate additional
children.Therefore, Category (6) set forth in the disbursement table in paragraph 1 o f Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement will be modified accordingly to permit the financing of this activity. The
Project Operational Manual in which the activitiesto be financed under Subprojects are included,
has been modified accordingly. The estimated cost for BoLO is about $800,000 and the
estimated construction period is 13 months. The proposed construction will not involve
involuntaryresettlement(see more details on environmentassessment in Para. 16).

10.     Need for extension of tlze Closing Date. An 18 month extension is needed to complete
remainingProject activities: main activities include civil works (completion of the Bread of Life
orphanage and the upgrading of the Stubbs Health Center), installation of the Information
Technology platform, as well as completion of recently approved CSO proposals and line
ministry work plan activities. The team has reviewedthe Government's revisedrequest and found
that the proposed work plan is reasonable and provides adequate time for the completion of all
remainingactivities within the proposed extensionof the Closing Date.

11,     Rationale for Reallocation. The proposed reallocation of Loan/Credit/Grant proceeds
are neededto support the following:


0   Civil works. To permit the financing of the civil works mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 7
    above. Loan/Credit/Grant allocation for works needs to be increaseddue to significant cost
    escalation since Project preparation.


0   Goods. The original budget for the 18 VCT sites was insufficient to procure the goods
    required to ensure they function optimally; current estimates for the laboratory equipment
    required facilitating the scaling up o f care and treatment programs and are substantially

                                                                                                4

    higher than the original estimates. Moreover, during implementation it became necessary to
    procure goods in critical areas such as nutrition to support the Program for Strengtheningthe
    Health sector response to HIV/AIDS. Some provision also had to be made to furnish and
    equip the additional works mentionedabove. These additional costs will be financed mainly
    from reallocatingfunds under Category (3) o f "Pharmaceuticals" because the Government is
    receiving support from other partners such as the OECS Global Fund Grant and the
    Government of Brazil.

0   Training.A significant portion of training has been undertakenduring the earlier phase of the
    Project and few training activities are being planned for the remainder of the project. Some
    training costs are also supported by other developmentpartners.

    111.     PROPOSEDCHANGES

12.      The restructuringwill involve the following changes:

    (a) Part B o f Schedule 2 to the LoanAgreement will be amendedto include the renovationof
         of an HIV/AIDS Resource Center at the MoE, as approvedby the Bank. The works have
         been satisfactorily completed;

    (b) Part C.1 o f Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement will be amended to include the upgrading
         o f health facilities (as approved by the Bank). Said change will permit the financing of
         the upgradingo fthe Stubbs HealthCenter into a polyclinic;

    (c) Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement will be amended to include the renovation
         of the NAS building. The works have been satisfactorily completed in December 2006.
        None of works involved any involuntary resettlement;

    (d) The disbursement table in paragraph 1 o f Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement will be
        amended as follows: (a) disbursement Category (6) will be amended to permit the
        financing of works under Subprojects, and thus finance the construction of the Bread of
        Life orphanage; and (b) other disbursement Categories will be amended to reflect the
        proposed reallocationof funds;

    (e) Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement will be modified to introduce the pertinent
        environmental/social covenant to be applicable to the works to be financed under
        Subprojects;

    (f) Schedule 4 (Procurement) to the Loan Agreement will need to be amended to reflect the
        procurementof works under Subprojects; and

    (g) Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement, and Section
        2.05 o f the DevelopmentGrant Agreementwill be amended to reflect the extensionof the
        Project Closing Date from June 30,2009 to December31, 2010.

13.     As mentionedabove, the changes mentioned inparagraphs (a) through (0above will also
be reflected in the Development Credit Agreement and the Development Grant Agreement. The
effectiveness of the amendment letter will be retroactive to date of the first disbursement of the
new activities not contemplated in the PAD (i.e. October 2005) to validate the disbursements
under the Project.

     IV.      ANALYSIS

  14.     The proposed changes will not affect the PDO or the associated outcome targets, or the
 economic, financial, environmental, technical and social aspects of the Project as appraised. The
 economicjustification for investment inthe Project outlined in the PAD is still valid.

 15.      The Project was assigned a Category "B" environmental rating, and this rating will
 remain unchanged as a result of the proposed restructuring. As part of Project preparation in
 2004, a biomedical waste management assessment was carried out to identify potential
 environmentalimpact from handling biomedical waste generated from laboratory testing of blood
 samples. Resources were allocated for updating the manuals for handling and disposal of
 biomedical waste generated by the laboratories; and for the purchase of waste disposal equipment
and stafftraining in the applicationof appropriatestandardsto healthcare waste management.

 16.      The new construction of the Bread of Life Orphanage (BoLO), the renovation of the
HIV/AIDS resource center at MoE and the upgrading o f the Stubbs Health Center were not
envisaged during Project Preparation. The renovationof BoLO was included in the 2005 Project
ProcurementPlan. In December2008, the group "Bread of Life" requested the Projectto change
the site for the proposed Orphanage, because it had reached an agreement with St. Benedict
Sisters Group, which operates a day nursery and infant hospital, to includethe proposed BoLO in
St. Benedict's new Children's Home. The rationale for this i s to share staffing and services such
as the central playground and specialized facilities allowing the children in these facilities to
benefit from a larger social circle. The proposed site for BoLO is on the Master Plan for the St.
Benedict's Children's Home, where the St. Benedict group already owns a 3-acre piece of
uninhabited land close to their existing facilities in Georgetown. The three acre parcel of land is
alongside a paved minor road, just a two-minute drive from the Windward Highway. Municipal
electrical services and water mains are close by. Sewage would be handled as is usual for similar
facilities with septic tanks and soakaways (or drainage fields). No environmental concerns are
evident. The land has been owned by the Catholic St. Benedict's group for many years. It is not
inhabitedand no built structures are present. Some of the land has been used to grow bananas in
the past, but now is lying fallow. The stakeholders inthis planhave agreed that the designs for the
BoLO can be used to build at the new site. The footprint of the proposed 2-story orphanage is
similar in size to that of the residentialbuildings planned for St. Benedict's Children's home. As
per national legislation and in compliance with World Bank safeguards policies, the Government
i s carrying out an environment assessment of the BoLO site. Special attention will be paid to
ensuring there are no toxic levels of pesticide residues from the past use of the land for banana
plantations. For the reasons mentioned above, the team does not expect that the proposed
restructuringwill trigger any new safeguard policiesor affect the environment safeguard rating of
the Project. Prior to construction,an environmental/socialscreening or assessment will be carried
out, and if determined by the Bank, an acceptable environmental/social management plan (or
similar instrument)will be approved, and thereafter the plan or similar instrumentwill be carried
out in accordance with its terms, A covenant will be added into the Legal Agreements to reflect
this understanding.The construction will not start without the Bank's environment safeguards
clearance.

17.      In addition, based on the Mid-term review discussions in June 2007, the Bank provideda
no-objection to the Government's request to upgrade the Stubbs Health Center into a polyclinic
based on the following reasons: (a) this center would serve as an HIV/AIDS treatment center; (b)
it would promote decentralization of HIV/AIDS care and making care more accessible --shifting
away from centralized HIV/AIDS care that was only being provided in one health facility which
was the Milton Cat0 General Hospital; and (c) it would encourage integration of care of

                                                                                                 6

HIV/AIDS with other health conditions. These reasons are consistent with the objectives of the
project. The Bank team's technical review of the health center indicates that it was satisfactorily
designed, and it did not involve involuntary resettlement,A Bank environment specialist visited
the site of the Stubbs Health Center, selected VCT sites, and the renovatedNAS and confirmed
that there are no environmentalconcerns or involuntary resettlementthat took place.

18.      There are no outstanding audit reports. The audit report for FY 2008 was received in
April 2009 and was acceptable to the Bank.The auditors issued Unqualified (Clean) opinions on:
(i) the Financial Statements; (ii) the Special Account; (iii) the Statement of Requests for
Reimbursement; and (iv) Project Compliance with the Terms of the Loan, Credit and Grant
Agreements.The auditors issued Qualified opinions on the Project's Internal Controls. While the
auditors noticed a few internal controls weaknesses related to the project management and FM
arrangements, they also notedthat some of the issues noted in FY07 were resolvedby the Project.
In general, the PCU's compliance with the World Bank policies and procedures has notably
improved in the course of the last two years. Noted weaknesses do not mean noncompliance of
the project with the WB policies and guidelines; rather they represent some minor deficiencies in
the organization o f the Project's internal processes. The task team is aware of these issues and
has been monitoring them over the course of the past few years. They do not represent any
significant risks and do not impactthe Project'sperformance. In fact, it is rather common for the
project to have some deficiencies observed and still be able to perform adequately, as is the case
for this Project. Most of the remaining weaknesses noted by the auditors reflect the specifics of
the internal organization of the government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and do not
negatively affect the Project's performance.

    V.        EXPECTED OUTCOMES

19.      It is expected that the proposed restructuring will: (a) align the Legal Agreements with
the PAD and the decision made during Project Implementation; (b) facilitate a more efficient use
of available funds to support priority activities under the Project; and (c) provide additional time
to allow the Project to successfully completethe plannedactivities in order to achieve the PDO.

    VI.      BENEFITS AND RISKS

20.      The benefit of the proposed restructuringwill be felt directly by the beneficiaries of the
St. Vincent and the GrenadinesNational HIV/AIDS Program. The Project has been supporting
the development of the New National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2009-2014) and strengthening
the institutional capacity o f the National AIDS Council and line ministries to scale up HIV/AIDS
Response. The Project has been supporting the health system for expanding services for
preventionand treatment.

21.     The pace of implementation poses a moderate risk to achievement of the PDO due to
possible delays in Project execution by the beneficiary agencies. This risk will be mitigated by
more frequent site visits by the Projectteam.




                                                                                                  7

