Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22464
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26870)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 104 MILLION (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
NORTH-WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
February 12, 2002
Human Development Unit
Pakdstan Country Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Effective June 1994)
Currency Unit = PAK Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.033
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 30.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP           Annual Development Plan
AEOs          Assistant Education Officers
BMZ           Bundesministerium fuer wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit
BOC           Bureau of Curriculum
BOD           Board of Directors
CAU           Construction Advisory Unit
CW            Civil Works
C&W           Communication and Works
DFID          Departrnent for Intemational Development, U.K
DoE           Department of Education
DPE           Department of Primary Education
FATA          Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FEF           Frontier Education Foundation
GCETs         Government College for Elementary Teachers
GIS           Geographic Information Systems
GTZ           Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IMDC          Instructional Materials Development Center
JICA          Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
KfW           Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LCs           Leaming Coordinators
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEDA          Netherlands Economic Development Agency
NGO           Nongovemmental Organization
NWFP          North West Frontier Province
PED           Primary Education Directorate
PEP           Primary Education Program
PEP-AWP       Primary Education Program - Annual Work Plan
PEPCO         Primary Education Program Coordinating Office
PEP-ILE       Primary Education Program - Improvement of Leaming Environment
PEP-MCO       Primary Education Program - Management Coordination Office
PITE          Provincial Institute Teacher Education
PM            Project Manager
P&D           Planning and Development
PTAs          Parents-Teachers Associations
RD&E          Research Development and Evaluation
SAP           Social Action Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SAPP          Social Action Program Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SRMs          Supplementary Reading Materials
TA            Technical Assistance
TA/DA         Travel Allowance/Daily Allowance
TBB           Textbook Board
TTMDC         Teacher Training and Materials Development Center
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VECs          Village Education Committees
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:  Charles C. Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gary Theisen
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                22
10. Additional Information                                                         25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              36






Project ID: P0 10486                                     lProject Name: NWFP Primary Education Project
Team Leader: Gary L. Theisen                              TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: February 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: NWFP Primary Education Project                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-26870
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/12/1992                             Effective: 06/26/1995
Appraisal:  06/08/1994                                MTR: 09/03/1997
Approval:  03/14/1995                              Closing:  12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF PAKISTAN/NWFP DEPT OF EDUC.
Other Partners: DFID, NEDA, KfW, GTZ
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                              Paul Eisemon
Sector Manager:      Charles C. Griffin                        Roberto Cuca
Team Leader at ICR:  Gary L. Theisen                           Mae Chu Chang
ICR Primary Author:  Gary L. Theisen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Otutcome: S
Sustainability: L
Instititional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the project were to improve: (a) access, equity and efficiency in primary
education, particularly for girls; (b) quality of the learning environment for all schools; (c) organizational
framework and the planning, management, assessment and monitoring capacity of the provincial education
system; and (d) village-level beneficiary involvement in all phases of primary education service delivery.
The Primary Education Program (PEP) was conceived as an umbrella program for basic education with
IDA providing project support along with other principal donors: Department for Intemational
Development-UK (DFID), Netherlands Economic Development Agency (NEDA), Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ).
Significant progress was made over the life of the project in improving the quality of in-service teacher
training and books and instructional materials. Considerable classroom space was added and enrollments
increased, although not as much as had been targeted at appraisal. However, the overall quality of the
learning environment did not rise appreciably. North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) led all provinces in
designing a new management structure centered around a decentralized elementary education system.
Beneficiary participation was achieved primarily through the development of Parent Teacher Associations
(PTAs) throughout the province in the last two years of the project. Good, but not wide spread, progress
was made in developing community-based schools, but the impact of the work of the Frontier Education
Foundation (FEF) was considerably less than expected.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was restructured in September 1997 as part of a Pakistan-wide effort to restructure the social
sector portfolio in view of overall flagging perfonnance and ensure better aligmnent between provincial
social sector projects with the Government's national Social Action Program. The restructuring agreements
included cancellation of SDR 20.2 million in credit projected to be unused by project end. Elements that
were added to the project in restructuring and for which sufficient credit was available included: (i)
scholarships for 20,000 rural girls to attend secondary school for improving the teacher supply; (ii) creation
of a performance award scheme for female teachers and head teachers; (iii) support of female supervisors
for school visits; (iv) development of an interactive radio program; and (v) creation of a fund for innovative
pilot activities.
In retrospect, only support of female supervisors for school visits was a feasible expectation and one that
was endorsed by government. Increased Travel Allowance and Daily Allowance (TA/DA) support for field
visits to schools was debated vociferously for over three years by the Department of Education (DoE) and
the Department of Finance. Although all parties were in agreement that additional funds were needed for
female supervisors to perform their tasks, administrative blockages prevented the allowance from being
raised. In the absence of PTAs or other capable local entities, the feasibility of implementing and
monitoring a scholarship program or an innovation fund was questionable. There was little interest or
capacity on the part of the Department to embark upon a program of radio instruction even though the
pedagogical tools were already in place. In short, the restructuring added unrealistic (however desirable)
expectations to a fragile implementation capacity. The project started slowly, hampered by weak
government leadership and limited capacity to put in place necessary expertise and implementation units.
During the last two years of the project, however, considerable ground was made up owing in part to strong
and stable management.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Note: MS= marginally satisfactory
Component                        Appraisal estimate total cost
(US$ million)
Total    IDA      GONWFP        Ratings
Improving access, equity and efficiency  254.3  135.5     118.8         MS
Improving the learning environment                                      MS
Improving organizational framework,    23.2      9.3       13.9         U
planning and management
Beneficiary participation              17.7      2.8       14.9         MS
2.8      2.4        0.4
Total                                 298.0    150.0      148.0     _
3.4 Revised Components:
Revised Components
Component                    (US$ milio )
Cost        Rating
Improving access                            84.40  S
Civil Works                             (67.72)
Equip., furniture                        (9.21)
Incremental salaries/ Op costs           (7.44)
Improving Quality                           16.36  S
Consultant services, fellowships,.       (8.66)
Ed and Tmg. materials                    (3.78)
Unallocated                              (2.03)
Scholarships/incentives                  (1.89)
Improving organizational framework           5.50  U
Incremental salaries/ Op costs           (5.5)
Beneficiary participation                    6.70  MS
Grants/ NGO support                       (6.7)
Total                                      112.96
Note: US$27.6 million cancelled on 9/3/97 & 04/01/01
US$83.5 million has been disbursed, leaving an un-disbursed amount of
US$27.3 million
During restructuring the major shift occurred in the addition of new elements to the second component:
Improving the learning environment. The purpose behind the shift was to broaden the emphasis on learning
environments to include a broader array of inputs potentially linked to instructional quality and to include
materials and incentives that were thought would lead to overall improvements in school-based
performance. The restructuring was an attempt to reflect also the high emphasis placed on quality in the
Social Action Program II Project which was just being initiated. A discussion of the specific ratings
follows in Section 4.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design did build on a number of the technical lessons learned from prior Bank and other donor
projects in Pakistan. However, the rating of "U" is given to quality at entry because of the failure to
incorporate effective strategies to address the cautions identified in the appraisal document itself: (i)
- 3 -



inadequate management; (ii) lack of capacity to implement; (iii) political interference in site selection and
staff appointments; and (iv) low rates of resource utilization. Despite attempts to address items i-iii in the
project design, these problems persisted through the mid-term restructuring of the project and only
diminished appreciably in the last two years of the project. The project was significantly over-budgeted
relative to government's implementation and fiscal capacity and the Bank should not have yielded to the
government's request to increase the overall size of the project by $25 million during negotiations. In
hindsight the project was overly ambitious in the breadth of activities undertaken relative to existing
capacity. Restructuring should have reduced the project expectations, not added to them. Financial
accounting, reporting and auditing arrangements for the project were not well defined. In retrospect, at the
time the project was prepared and appraised the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to ensuring sufficient
financial management support and oversight to weak capacity within government to administer the financial
aspects of the project with acceptable competence and rigor. It should be noted, however, that the current
emphasis within the Bank on rigorous project-level standards for financial management came to
prominence only during the last two years of the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall rating for Development Objectives is "S" (marginally), but the overall rating disguises some
variation in achieving objectives in each of the project elements, and is a function of the heavier weight
given to the access and quality components, both in terms of substantive priority and expenditure.
(a) Improving access, equity and efficiency, particularly for girls, was largely satisfactory, but short
of initial expectations and potential. Nearly 16,000 new classrooms were built under the project (90% of
the restructured target). This was an increase of 45% over existing capacity at the start of the project.
Total enrollment increased by 309,000 during the project period, including a 36% increase in female
enrollments. During the project period, the number of government primary schools in NWFP increased
from 20,317 (4395 girls' and 15922 boys') in 1993-94 to 21,376 (6845 girls' and 14,531 boys') in
1999-00. Of the 6845 girls' schools, 6288 were in rural areas. The ratio of girls'/boys' schools increased
from 0.28:1 to 0.47:1. The total enrollment increased from 1,719,938 (555,648 girls and 1,164,290 boys)
in 1994-95 to 2,029,318 (756,957 girls and 1,272,361 boys) in 1999-00. This amounts to an increase of
18% over the five years of the project. The increase in girls' enrollment was 36.2% (double the average
increase) over the same period. The national average for primary level enrollment increase over the period
1991-97 was approximately one percent per annum. Thus, even though the project enrollment targets were
not met, there are no other exogenous variables than the PEP that might explain the more rapid growth in
enrollments in NWFP than found in government schools in other provinces in Pakistan during the same
period. These accomplishments are even more significant since growth in enrollments overall, and
especially for females (35,000 per year) occurred in a mostly rural/peri-urban, conservative population.
Nearly 90 percent of the restructured project targets for civil works were accomplished. Offsetting some of
these gains however, is the increase in the rate of dropouts from an average of about 8% in 1994-95 to
about 12% in 1998-99. (As noted in Annex 1, however, all education data in Pakistan need to be treated
with caution. Dropouts may return to school at a later date or transfer to private schools. School census
data unfortunately do not track this type of movement. Although government's education statistics may
have validity problems with regard to absolute numbers, the relative increases over the life of the project
have been confirmed by data from the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey.)
(b) The quality of the learning environment was improved. More than 3000 teacher trainers were
developed and over 56,000 teachers received training -- at least one in each government school in the
province. New textbooks (a total of 60) were developed in the core curricula for grades k-3 and nearly 11
-4 -



million textbooks were produced and distributed on schedule. In addition, teacher guides and supplemental
instructional materials were developed and distributed to accompany the texts.
(c) Improved planning, management, assessment and monitoring were only partly achieved. The
district level management training program was highly successful before it was interrupted by the DFID
suspension. The system restructuring task force produced an important comprehensive guideline for
strengthening district level management. The proposal to combine middle and primary school
administration is now in place and has been formally ratified by the governor. The debate surrounding
shifts in roles and responsibilities to the district level anticipated the federal government's decision to
decentralize the provision of basic education services and helped to facilitate the transition. However, the
research, development and evaluation activities were understaffed and underfunded by government
throughout the life of the project and there is little to sustain from this portion of this component from the
project.
(d) Village level beneficiary involvement was increased but sustainability is an issue. Several pilot
activities promoting community participation in school development hold promise but have yet to be
absorbed into the government system. The Frontier Education Foundation, proposed by government to be
the main vehicle for promoting private sector and NGO involvement in elementary education, has been
rendered increasingly ineffective by weak administration and limitations imposed upon it by its charter.
However, over 17,000 PTAs were operationalized and members received training, a significant
accomplishment. The positive impact of the process (analysis and debate) of developing the Restructuring
Plan and the formation of PTAs will last well beyond the project, however.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(ratings per Table 3.4, revised components)
1. Improving Access. Rating = Satisfactory.
a) Civil Works. Approximately 66% of the original targets and 90% of the revised targets of the civil
works component were achieved. A total of 15,740 classrooms (7567 IDA funded and 8173 KfW
funded)-- against the original indicative target of 23,900 and against the revised target of around 17,500
classrooms-- were completed. A total of 36,884 classrooms were available in government primary,
Mosque and Maktab schools in 1992-93 (Staff Appraisal Report [SAR] page 46). Thus, the project helped
to increase the number of classrooms by 45%. A summary of civil works by category of work completed
vs. targets is presented in the following table.
Components                          Target     Achieved
New Establishment                                          2714             2707
Conversion of GMPS                                             73             610
Construction of Addl. Class Rooms                             7851           3105
Reconstruction of Primary Schools                              702            631
Repair & Rehabilitation                                       1395           2121
Provision of building for shelterless Primary schools          313            167
Upgradation of Primary Schools to Middle Status                66             500
Provision of B/Facilities                                     200(           2493
-5-



The design of PEP did not specify rigid annual construction targets. Annual Work Plans were based on
detailed assessment of the progress achieved in the previous year and the capacity to expand delivery.
On-going construction work on 2,507 schools left incomplete under the USAID-funded project, and 30
model schools funded by JICA were also completed.
The modest shortfall in achieving revised targets was due to: (a) delay in site selection caused by political
interference and other factors; (b) sites found inappropriate after selection; (c) non-availability of land for
certain sites, especially in urban areas; (d) government's refusal to award contracts after learning of
collusion among contractors and resultant strikes by contractors; (e) delay in hiring top supervision
consultants (independent construction experts/monitors) - no work took place between 1997-98 when IDA
froze construction approval in the absence of qualified top supervision; and (f) obsolete schedule of
allowable rates and premiums.
Approximately 629,600 children (15,740 classrooms at 40 students per classroom) will benefit annually
from the improved school facilities. The quality of construction carried out under the supervision and
management of the Construction Advisory Unit (CAU) was better and more cost-effective than that carried
out under the management and supervision of the Communication and Works (C&W) department. C&W's
efforts improved considerably when top supervision consultants were finally hired in September 1998, at
the Bank's insistence, to improve construction quality and site selection, but by then delays had already
caused irreparable stoppages in implementation. Despite strong pressure from IDA and repeated promises
by the Department, the building proposed to house the Directorate of Primary Education was not built --
the plans for it were effectively tied up by internal politics.
b) Rehabilitation and maintenance of Schools: Rehabilitation of 819 schools (207 girls and 612 boys)
was carried out using IDA credit. In addition, each of these schools received funds for instructional
materials and routine repairs. Approximately 25% of primary schools were in need of maintenance beyond
routine repairs in 1999-00 as compared with 37% in 1994-95.
c) Furniture: Furniture (benches and desks for children and chairs and tables for teachers) was provided
to primary schools for grade 4-5 children in four divisions of the province. No furniture was provided for
grade 1-3 children because of disagreements about decentralized versus local purchase, shortcomings in
prototype design and slowness in setting procurement in motion and according to Bank and government
requirements. Significantly more furniture could and should have been provided to the students of the
province had procurement been handled in a more orderly fashion. Many primary schools have little
furniture or lack appropriate benches for the physical space and new instructional methods. Sitting on the
damp ground, most children do not find the classroom a comfortable place conducive to learning. Facilities
will need to be upgraded in subsequent government initiatives if learning conditions and school quality are
to improve and be sustained.
2. Improving Quality. Rating = Satisfactory
a) Teacher Training. US$4.0 million were allocated out of IDA credit for this component. Perhaps the
most notable achievement of PEP is the in-service training of teachers. The successful development and
delivery of the training program is the result of coordinated inputs from government, the donors
(NEDA/BMZ/IDA), and the expertise provided by GTZ, especially the long-term resident TA. Although
the design does not correspond to the details laid out in the appraisal documents, it is solidly grounded as a
result of repeated reviews and field testing.
- 6 -



During the period 1997-2000 a total of 3332 trainers (1525 females) and 38,586 teachers (17,092 females)
in primary schools across the 22 districts of the province were trained. This includes at least one teacher
per primary school for each grade, Kachi-Grade III. The Primary Education Program - Improving the
Learning Environment (PEP-ILE) plans include training for Grade IV and V in 2001 and 2002
(IDA-funded portion of the program ended on December 31, 2000; other donors have commitments into
2002). Training modules focused on priority areas as identified in the appraisal, including a range of
techniques to deal with multi-grade/age classes, classroom-based assessments; general pedagogy, core
subject content knowledge and a unit on Parent-Teacher Relations. Both Pushto and Urdu languages were
used. Excellent teacher support materials (Teaching Manuals and Teacher Guides) have been developed
and are utilized in the training and a comprehensive package, including student textbooks/workbooks, is
supplied to each trainer and teacher. As agreed during appraisal, government has supported this quality
reform by deputing regular government staff, releasing teachers for training, procuring and distributing
materials and providing TA/DA and physical facilities.
Two studies (1999 and 2000) were conducted to assess the impact of the project's Improvement of the
Learning Environment (PEP-ILE) in-service training and the textbooks on pupil achievement and teacher
behavior. Results of both studies show increased learning achievement of students (both genders) with
increased inputs of PEP-ILE teacher training and materials. Inputs are also associated with a positive
change in teacher behavior. The findings show that in both subjects, the students of the program schools
performed better than the students from the non-program district, the difference in achievement ranges from
3 to 30 percentage points in Urdu, and from 3 to 41 percentage points in math. The differences are more
pronounced in higher level comprehension tasks and math operations. The study does not reveal any
significant gender effect on achievement. The findings of the 1999 study also show that training has made
a difference to teacher classroom behavior. In the two program districts where the study was conducted,
34% and 46% respectively of teachers demonstrated pupil-centered/active behaviors, while only 4% of
such behaviors were found in the non-program schools. The wide variation in results raises some questions
about the empirical certainty of the findings, but the overall direction of the results, supported by anecdotal
evidence as well, give testimony to the effectiveness of the program.
The 2000 study, also conducted in 3 districts (Bannu, Nowshera and Chitral), reveals higher levels of
achievement in program districts over previous scores in the same program districts. In Nowshera, kachi
level ("pre-school") scores show an increase of 28% and 30% in Urdu and math, respectively, over the
1999 baseline, and a significant increase of 62 percentage points in pakki math (1st grade). Urdu scores
have increased by a nominal 2%.
b) Instructional Materials. The materials development component was able to achieve significant
success. NEDA and BMZ provided pre-project funds and technical assistance in 1995. This considerably
shortened the inception time and contributed to the effective and timely delivery of the materials component.
Utilizing previously built capacity was also a key ingredient of effectiveness. The Instructional Materials
Development Cell established in 1992 in the Primary Directorate through the USAID program was fortified
and became the Teacher Training and Materials Development Center (TTMDC), the implementing agency
for this component.
The production of quality primary level textbooks, workbooks and teachers guides is a notable
accomplishment of PEP-ILE. From 1995-2000, the project was able to produce and supply, on schedule,
more than 10.9 million subsidized textbooks and workbooks in Pushto and Urdu based on the integrated
core curriculum for Kachi-Grade III to students of NWFP and FATA. Each year's production included 15
titles. In addition, high quality teachers guides were produced, utilized in the pre-service program and
- 7 -



supplied along with a set of the textbooks and workbooks to the teachers. The production of the textbooks
for the remaining grades (IV and V) is on schedule and is expected to be completed by 2001 with
introduction scheduled for the academic year 2002.
Another achievement of the project is the formal recognition and adoption of the textbooks and the
workbooks by the official statutory bodies of the federal and provincial governments The approvals
accorded by the Ministry of Education (Curriculum Wing) and the adoption and prescription by the NWFP
Textbook Board of the materials produced under the PEP-ILE project are precedent setting and a strong
acknowledgment of the value of these reform initiatives. Learning from the experience of the past
interventions in materials development, which did not achieve official sanction and remained largely outside
the main system, the project involved key government agencies from the out-set (a memorandum of
understanding was signed in 1995 that the TBB would accept books produced by PEP-ILE). Agreements
were reached that the textbooks would be based on the prescribed official (national) curriculum, approvals
would be obtained from the designated government bodies, close coordination would be maintained with the
TBB, the Bureau of Curriculum and the Primary Education Directorate, and institutional capacity would
be strengthened.
Improvements in the physical, presentational and content quality of the textbooks are particularly
significant achievements. Through the installation of modem equipment, training in production processes,
involvement of experts such as illustrators, graphic designers, artists, calligraphers and other technical
input, the project produced textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides of considerably better quality than
previously existed. The textbooks contain attractive, age/gender and interest-appropriate illustrations, using
multiple colors. The increased book length provides much more space for presentation of concepts and
learning activities. Concept introduction and lesson presentation are based on sound pedagogical
approaches. No studies have been conducted to ascertain if book durability and book life have increased.
Through PEP-ILE, staff have been trained in technical production processes by short-term consultants.
The development of the teachers guide is a significant addition to the inputs in the system. Prior to PEP,
teachers' guides, where they existed, were not well used in Pakistan. Comprehensive teachers' guides
developed under PEP-ILE provide guidance on teaching techniques, and include subject content to
strengthen the teacher's knowledge base. Teaching and management strategies were designed to address
the prevalent situation of multi-grade and multi-age classes and the limited school resource environments.
The guides include day-to-day lesson plans, activities, and tips on teacher-made aids.
The new textbooks and teacher guides are being used in the in-service teacher training program. To date,
at least one teacher in each school of each grade level from kachi-Grade III has been trained using the new
materials. This synchronization of efforts between various institutions (PED, BOC, PITE, TBB) and
various donors in the consortium (IDA, BMZ, NEDA, DFID,) and the technical assistance agency, GTZ, is
evidence of the commitment of all the stakeholders to a shared objective and also of the significant increase
in the capacity of the system to deal with multiple actors and proficiency skills of the TA teams. IDA
funds largely supported development and production costs; BMZ, DFID and NEDA provided technical
expertise in design and testing.
Both government and IDA were of the joint view that government resources were too limited to provide free
books. Thus, a sliding scale subsidy was introduced for all the PEP-ILE produced books. From a subsidy
of approximately 39%, in 1997, the subsidy was reduced to 9% in 2000. Out of a total cost of Rs.
765.841 million for the new textbooks, the subsidy for this period amounts to Rs. 70.738 million. All
subsidies have been funded by KfW. The absence of parental concem about the slightly higher prices of
textbooks is an indication that the public recognizes and is willing to pay for higher quality when it is
- 8 -



provided at a reasonable cost and that full market costs will be sustainable when the subsidy ends.
A concrete indicator of the value ascribed to the new textbooks and teacher guides is the adoption by
private schools, especially the largest private school system, of the Urdu books and the demand for
translation from Urdu into English of the Math and Science texts. The volume of sets printed by the TBB is
usually two or three times that of public sector enrollments. In addition to meeting the replacement
demand, there is mid-year demand for reprints often. The books have been used in large volume by various
categories of schools: private, religious, Afghan, non-formal schools, and the entire system in FATA.
Classroom visits undertaken during a recent study found that about 50% of the teachers (mostly female) are
using the Teacher Guides. In response to the demand by the parents, students and teachers for the new
textbooks/workbooks and Teacher Guides, the Directorate has decided that Grade IV and V books would
be made available without linking or synchronizing the distribution with the teacher training schedule. This
may limit the impact of the text, but the new books, independent of training in their use, are a considerable
improvement over the previous texts. Social marketing was introduced to promote positive buying
behavior; about 15,000 attractively designed posters were supplied to book retailers and for schools. This
is an innovative approach rarely used in Pakistan.
c) Supplementary Reading Materials (SRMs). The effort to introduce SRMs was not successful. In the
first two years of PEP, 41 randomly selected SRMs were procured and distributed to primary schools,
however no training or follow-up support was provided. As a result, SRMs were either locked up in
classroom cupboards or lost and did not become effective classroom resources. Although technical advice
on procurement was provided by the Bank, and the selection process was conducted properly, the lack of
attention to training, distribution and utilization prevented positive outcomes from this component.
Compounding the situation was the decision to procure high quality SRMs produced by the Punjab Middle
Schooling Project. Provincial publishers lobbied against giving lucrative printing and publishing contracts
to businesses in Punjab. These arguments were supported by the senior officials of the education
department who advocated building local publishing capacity, but too little time remained in the project for
this strategy to be enacted. Consequently, and unfortunately, the plan to procure SRMs was dropped.
d) Educational Aids. Non-utilization of previous educational kits (national and IMDC kits) reinforced
the reservations of the Finance Department about spending project funds on additional kits. Government
preferred to utilize IDA credit principally for civil works, and decided to drop this item from PEP.
Although some preliminary work was done (the prototypes for K-Grade II had been developed and accepted
by the TBB and the Directorate) progress was bogged down by cumbersome procurement processes and
work on this component was subsequently stopped. To ensure adequate provision of other (non-textbook)
learning materials (maps, charts, chalk, compasses, etc.) at the classroom level, government allocated
non-salary funds on a per classroom norm. This quality input has become a prominent part of the SAPP
effort and of the provincial recurrent budget. Government is taking steps to put control of expenditure of
these funds directly at the discretion of school-level authorities.
3. Improving Organizational Framework. Rating = Unsatisfactory
a) Monitoring, Research and Evaluation. The RD&E unit was established in 1992 and has as its
primary function collecting data on schools and aggregating them in the form of the Annual School Census.
During the life of PEP no research has been conducted and few operational funds have been made available
by government to the unit, which has been essentially donor-funded. Three positions were recently
authorized for the unit after a three year struggle to get them approved. Since the unit has no formal
connection to the planning office, there is little motivation to conduct research since it is not clear who the
client would be. Questions have been raised about the validity of the school census data but no funds are
-9-



available to conduct even spot checks of the information. In recent years government resources have not
been available to print the Census and the cost has been covered by donors in order to make the data
available to potential users. However, staff in the unit feel that there are few interested users of either the
census data or that which might be produced by research. Until a data-based planing and management
environment is created within government, demand for the unit's services will be marginal. Staff are
under-utilized with the production of the school census being their primary responsibility.
b) Elementary Restructuring. With DFID technical leadership the Department undertook a two year
evaluation of its system structure and management. The resulting reorganization plan represented extensive
consultations with district level stakeholders and proposed a realistic set of incremental steps to reform and
strengthen the system. The recommendations were thoroughly vetted within the Department and were in
the process of being formulated into concrete steps when the federal government announced its decision to
decentralize the political structure of the nation to the district level. The implementation plan was placed
on hold pending the results of local elections and recommendations from the National Reconstruction
Board. Following the close of the project, government, with some modification essentially adopted most of
the recommendations and restructured the system into two sections: elementary through secondary and a
separate post-secondary unit. The roles and responsibilities proposed in the restructuring plan are still
likely to take root in the newly decentralized system and help to strengthen district-level management. The
restructuring as proposed was several years in advance of the thinking in other provinces and has been
carefully studied by officials in other parts of the country. Thus, the work has had an impact beyond the
NWFP. However, these changes did not take effect until after the project closing, not early in
implementation as planned, and then only after several reversals of opinion on the recommendations.
Hence, overall, restructuring and strengthening of the planning and management capacities of the
Department were unsatisfactory during the life of the project.
4. Beneficiary Participation. Rating: Marginally Satisfactory
a) Frontier Education Foundation. Premised on the assessment that the public sector does not have the
capacity to reach all children and that private schools serve the public interest by expanding access,
government encouraged private sector participation in education through the Frontier Education Foundation
(FEF), a statutory body created by an act of the provincial parliament in 1992 for this express purpose.
The main mandate of the FEF was to 'promote and finance the development of education in the private
sector in the NWFP'. In the PEP Staff Appraisal Report, the FEF was identified as one of the
implementing agencies for delivering the components related to beneficiary participation and for meeting
the objectives of increasing access, equity and efficiency and improving quality through loans and grants
for the establishment of schools especially in the rural areas and for girls.
During the period 1994-99, the FEF provided a total of Rs. 72.057 million (approx. $1.3m) in grants and
loans to 134 educational institutions. Of these, 62 were primary schools and 28 were middle schools.
Combined they constitute about 67% of the total subsidies given by FEF. The target of establishing 60
schools per year in the rural areas and the urban slums has not been met; however, emphasis in the
program has been on primary, rural schools. From 1994-97, FEF provided training to 254 male and
female primary school teachers working in private sector schools in the province. This was done through
contracting institutions and individual experts/trainers. Training packages included classroom
management, educational psychology, lesson planning and content knowledge in math and science.
Although this was a valuable service being provided to the private schools at minimal cost, it was
discontinued after 1997 because of budget concerns and an internal review of FEF's performance.
From December 1999-November 2000, activities of the FEF were frozen during an inquiry by government
- 10-



into its programs and management. After the lifting of the freeze, there is evidence of renewed interest on
the part of government to restructure the charter of the FEF to make the organization a more effective link
in promoting public-private partnerships. A Restructuring Plan has recently been approved by the
Governing Board, and the Education Minister is attempting to revive the Foundation. Priorities include
primary education, especially for rural girls, teacher training and information technology at the secondary
school level. In the absence of a community school program and a policy to promote a range of models for
girls education, and unless special efforts are made, it seems unlikely that the Rural Community-Based
Schools (RCB), a demonstrable, successful initiative, will be sustained. The financial sustainability of FEF
hinges on the earnings from the endowment and the recovery of loans. Records show that the Foundation
has been able to maintain a high recovery rate. However, given inflation and the depreciating value of the
rupee, the interest earnings of the endowment, which constitute the operational budget for the Foundation,
have diminished in real terms. Since the initial capital provided in 1992, the endowment has received no
additional budget, and there is no evidence of any financing plan to improve the fiscal health of the
Foundation. Performance in this sub-category was, overall, unsatisfactory (U).
b) Community Schools. Between 1998-2000, ninety Rural Community-Based Schools (RCBS) for girls
were established in two districts with grant funds and technical assistance from DFID. The schools have
an enrollment of 3720 girls and 446 boys, with 113 female and 8 male teachers. The project provides for
teachers' salaries (Rs. 2000 per month for matriculates and Rs. 1200 per month for middle pass), mats,
furniture, blackboards, and free textbooks as well as for social organizers. Training of trainers and
teachers and the NGOs is provided by UNICEF. The schools follow the formal government prescribed
curriculum. Rural Community-Based Schools are to be transferred to the mainstream government system
three years from the date of their establishment. To date, only one school has been transferred and in light
of the virtual paralysis of the FEF while it awaits restructuring, there is uncertainty about the likelihood of
the transfers being carried out as mandated. These schools may survive even without absorption by
government, but that is not at all certain and the credibility of future initiatives sponsored by government
will be seriously damaged.
Two NGOs were engaged for social mobilization and organization of communities. The experience has
demonstrated the effectiveness of NGO and community involvement/partnership in developing educational
opportunities for poor rural children. A notable success of this model has been the high level of female
participation, especially of mothers in the Village Education Committees (VECs). The 90 VECs have a
female membership of 1766, mostly mothers. Of the 1331 male members of the VECs, about 60% are
fathers. These efforts demonstrate how latent demand for female education can be met in cost effective
ways through participatory and inclusive approaches.
The risks inherent in the conservative socio-cultural environment of rural NWFP need to be noted. During
the last year of the project three schools were closed down due to the pressure/insistence of the local
religious leaders. The community was unable to resist this pressure. Government urgently needs to
endorse the schools and put in place the mechanisms for transfer of eligible RCB schools to the
government. Although creation of these schools was a success, the long-term sustainability is somewhat
questionable in light of government's lack of fiscal and institutional support to these schools and the
difficulties of countering opposition to girls' education in remote, highly conservative areas. This
sub-component must be regarded as marginally satisfactory.
c) PTA formation. During the last three years of the project approximately 19,000 PTAs were formed,
given legal stature and given some training in their roles and functions. Although it will take a number of
years for these fledgling organizations to take root, they have already provided parents a voice in the
organization and management of their schools. The Department established an initial target of 5,000 PTAs



(following restructuring) but quickly moved to provide for the larger number. PTA members will continue
to require information and support as their roles solidify. However, they will be important catalysts in
helping the province decentralize its education services and maintain accountability and quality in the
performance of staff and ensure good results from the instructional process. Government's efforts to
mobilize and train PTAs exceeded the most optimistic expectations. The sub-component was rated
marginally satisfactory (S), because of the considerable effort expended to institute the PTA as an
important, recognized local level institution. Considerable effort must still be made to ensure that the PTA
concept takes root. Ultimately, the role and functions of the PTAs will be determined by the community,
not by government dictate -- a process that will a take a decade or more to become firmly rooted in local
govemance.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economics of the project were not analyzed during preparation or appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial implications of the project have not been formally considered, in large part because of
concem over the validity of the base line enrollment data and difficulty in establishing unit costs from the
government budget. However, most critical activities supported initially by project financing and which
have recurrent cost implications have already been shifted to the regular budget.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The good practices associated with needs assessment, transparent tendering and award of works, effective
supervision and cost control developed and practiced by the CAU in the later stages of the project should be
further strengthened and institutionalized. The long-term impact of the resources devoted to, and capacities
developed for instructional materials development are positive and significant - assuming that these
capacities continue to be institutionalized over the next few years. Similarly, the recent shift of the teacher
training functions into the PITE has the potential to enhance long-term sustainability if the PITEs are
staffed and financed by government appropriate to the functions they will be asked to perform.
Unfortunately, project administrative staff who were well versed in procurement and audit issues by the
project end were transferred to other posts with the result that core capacities have been dissipated,
although not lost. The long-term impact on research, evaluation and planning is not likely to be significant,
although the on-going support being provided by DFID may strengthen EMIS and district level
management capacity.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the early years of project implementation, frequent changes in government adversely affected and
resulted in lack of senior managerial attention. The suspension of assistance by DFID following the change
of government on October 12, 1999 did slow progress on development of district-based management
information systems, and research monitoring and evaluation. Training of district level education
managers, especially females, was negatively affected. Throughout most of the life of the project, budget
uncertainties (federal transfers) resulted in end of year fiscal transfers to the development program budgets,
but were too late for the funds to be used effectively, if at all. This persistent fiscal uncertainty,
exacerbated in part by an unsettled macro-economic context, created extra tension among the line agency,
the Finance Department and Planning and Development. Weak capacity to budget within the Department
of Education, especially in the first half of the project, exacerbated the unease created by the yearly budget
shortfalls.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 12 -



Frequent transfers of the department's senior officials, especially Secretaries, slowed progress as decisions
were delayed and the new leadership was not fully oriented to the program's goals and implementation
arrangements. Delays also occurred at the federal level, due to the lengthy approval process involved in
getting clearance for instructional materials. Govermment has not been able to fully resolve issues
pertaining to the location and institutional home for the TTMDC. The teacher training activities moved
into PITE in late 2000, but understaffing and underfunding of PITE have impeded its ability to become a
full partner of the PEP-ILE teams. Government was expected to create by June 30, 1999 regular posts for
a cadre of Master Trainers. This has not been done, and failure to do so would significantly undermine the
sustainability of the system that has been put in place. No progress has been made on reforming the
GCETs and strengthening their capacity to deliver quality training programs. At appraisal government had
agreed that a series of studies would be undertaken by the GCETS and the BOC; this was not done.
On the positive side, manifestations of the provincial government's support for implementation of the
textbook and learning materials components are: a) availability of staff; b) provision of mainline
government facilities for locating project units; c) according recognition to the new materials; d) adoption
and distribution to ensure that all children have access to the new textbooks; and e) coordination with the
Directorate.
Factors that negatively affected implementation of the textbook component included: delays in approval of
materials, which occurred mostly at the federal level; lengthy review processes; reviews lacking in sound
pedagogical assessment; transfer of critical trained staff; and lack of oversight at the senior levels of
government during some phases of the project. While there is ownership of the end products by the TBB
and the government, there has been limited interest and commitment in the TBB to benefit from the
technical inputs of the project and too often an abdication by government of its decision making role to the
TA team.
The FEF has suffered from a combination of neglect and political intervention. Its administrative autonomy
has been fettered by imposition of a government structure, and the adoption of government rules,
regulations, procedures, allowing virtually no space for the flexibility required for innovative approaches.
Its ability to deliver has been crippled by frequent changes in management leadership (11 Managing
Directors in a period of 8 years), uncommitted executive leadership for most of its history, political
intervention in award of funds/assistance and selection of schools, political patronage at the divisional and
the Board level; and the depletion of the endowment due to governnment borrowing sizeable amnounts (Rs.
185 m) during one of the fiscal crises of recent years. It is unlikely that the endowment will be replenished
until the management of the FEF improves. Infrequent meetings of the Board of Govemors (at one point
the Board did not meet for a period of 22 months) combined with the absence of delegation of powers to the
Managing Director resulted in a complete incapacitation of the Foundation. Over-arching these problems
is the absence of a clear policy on public-private partnerships and the role of the FEF as the principal
intermediary organization for the promotion of private sector/NGOs and community participation. The
lack of clarity in the relationship of FEF to PEP and to SAPP led to a passive non-engagement of the
Foundation with the SAP agenda. The inability of government to project the purpose/objectives of FEF
and to protect it from patronage also diminished its irnage as a development institution espousing
community participation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Although govemment officials were trained in the Bank's procurement procedures before and during the life
of the project, the procurement process and contract management has been fraught with difficulties,
primarily due to (i) the absence of systematic procurement planning and monitoring; (ii) noncompliance
with agreed procedures (particularly civil works), (iii) delays in implementation for lack of due diligence;
- 13 -



(iv) poor project management resulting in poorly documented SOEs, deficiencies in project financial
statements, and qualified audit reports; and (v) too frequent failure to adhere to details of Bank and
government approved competitive processes (e.g., allowing a full 30 days for submission of bids, public
opening of bids, etc.). Audit reports themselves were sometimes incomplete and observations made not
always clear. There was insufficient coordination between the project and its auditors which led to delays
in addressing IDA's concerns with regard to the acceptability of the project financial statements and audit
observations, and ultimately to temporary discontinuance of disbursements on the project in the last quarter
before closing. This threatened completion of revised construction targets. Over the last two years of the
project the supervision team, as part of a Bank-wide effort, strengthened its vigilance of and support to
procurement processes and financial management. Government's procedures improved, however,
institutionalization of acceptable accounting and audit procedures has not yet been achieved.
Procurement Planning and Control Systems. At the time of appraisal, and even by the start of the
project, formal procurement plans had not been prepared and processes for monitoring purchases had not
been developed by the executing units. Steps to improve procurement, even when agreed during
supervision missions, were too frequently not complied with. As a result of delays imposed internally by
government and externally by the Bank, much of the civil works and furniture procurement took place
during the last two years of the project. This back-loading resulted in undue pressure on government and
contractors to meet very tight delivery schedules. It also resulted in a lower than acceptable utilization rate
for project resources.
Compliance with agreed procedures. Prior to 1995-96, Government's procurement procedures restricted
bidding to pre-registered bidders only. As a result, bid evaluation and post-qualification factors did not
exist. The requirement that prior review take place before the first contract in a division could be awarded
to a fimn for each fiscal year was also not complied with diligently. Following ex-post audits and in-depth
training in 1997, government agreed to follow NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, using sample
bidding documents with agreed prior review procedures, as stipulated in the legal agreement. An ex-post
audit of C&W contracts awarded between March '98-March '99 indicated that appropriate procedures were
generally being followed.
Despite the generally good performance of the CAU in implementing civil works, some provisions of the
bidding documents for civil works contracts (especially post-qualification in contracts awarded by CAU)
were not always followed diligently by the executing agencies. A number of the civil works contracts
(awarded by C&W) were awarded after expiry of the bid validity, even though justifiable awards were
belatedly made. Ex-post audit of contracts awarded by CAU after January 2000, revealed that CAU rarely
carried out post qualification reviews. Post-qualification was also not done efficiently in the case of
furniture procurement in Mardan, which led to delays, several reversals of no objections by the Bank, and
ultimately to cancellation of the procurement. In general however, the CAU performed well, especially in
the last two years of the project. Re-bidding occurred on several of the civil works contracts due to lack of
competition in remote areas, protests by contractors, and high bid prices. With one exception (Mardan), all
cases of direct contracting and sole source selection had the Bank's prior concurrence. Selection process
for top supervision, construction management consultants and NGOs for formation of PTAs was also
carried out in a transparent manner following the Guidelines, predefined selection criteria and with the
Bank's prior review.
Timely implementation and due diligence. Most of the civil works and goods were procured during the
last two years of the project, which unfortunately delayed benefits to the citizens of NWFP. Civil works
were unnecessarily delayed because of government's initial opposition to hiring top supervision consultants.
Some furniture contracts were awarded after the expiration of the bid period. As a result of inadequate
- 14 -



contract management capacity and controls, furniture deliveries (particularly in Peshawar) were delayed
well beyond the specified delivery period.
Frequent changes in governments and policy makers (e.g., Secretary of Education - 12 in a period of 7
years), delays in finalizing service rules and posting staff on deputation also severely impeded
implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The timely release of funds from the ADP was a problem, particularly in the first three years of the project.
Counterpart funding was not made available as required. Although adequate provision was made in the
ADP, funds were released only after delays of three to six months and sometimes not until the last quarter
of the fiscal year. During the restructuring of the project, targets for the renovation of schools and the
construction of new classrooms and schools were reduced by US$27.4 million. A total of US$83,501,087
has been disbursed with an undisbursed balance of US$27,432,789.65. Approximately 59% of the original
credit amount has been disbursed (74% of the revised amount).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
A "Likely" rating was given for the overall project, despite weak performance in several components, in
light of the heavy weight accorded to the access and quality components, where performance was
acceptable.
It was originally envisaged that the program would be implemented by the line units of the Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE) and by other line agencies of the NWFP Education Department. One year into
the project, donors and government agreed that the program was not achieving its objectives because of the
generally weak capacity and ineffective leadership of the DPE. In order to speed progress and to
circumvent bureaucratic bottlenecks, it was agreed to create a separate PEP Management and Coordination
Office (PEP-MCO). A Project Manager (PM) was selected to head this office from the elite District
Management Group of the Civil Service of Pakistan. Over the subsequent years, the PEP-MCO did
facilitate progress in procurement and civil works. However, the decision to locate the coordination of the
project outside of the DPE had unforeseen negative consequences: resentment by the DPE and field staff
who felt left out of decision making despite the fact that they were subsequently responsible for
implementation. Two years before the closing date of the project, the Additional Chief Secretary
(Development) also felt that the gains made in the project were not being institutionalized and that
ownership of the program by the DPE and the field officials needed to be strengthened. Eighteen months
before the closure of the project, critical functions were relocated back to implementing line agencies. This
decision was buttressed by the fact that individuals with appropriate management and skill competencies
now filled the vacuum previously hampering implementation. This decision, coming as it did at a critical
stage in the project, greatly enhanced the sustainability of key project components.
PEP has contributed to building the system's capacity to organize and deliver a province wide in-service
teacher training program. Involvement of regular government staff, especially district staff, at all levels of
design, delivery, monitoring and review has built local capacity. In the context of the recent move to
devolve services, building district capacity was fortuitous. However, the predominant role of the TA teams
still is a major factor in the timely and organized delivery of this component, and the dependence of
government on TA to lead the program indicates that capacity is not yet sufficiently institutionalized in the
local structures. Institutionally, the accomplishments can be sustained if the PITE is strengthened and a
rigorous form of certification/credentialing and training impact is employed. Financially, the program has
- 15 -



been run at low cost and recurrent implementation costs can be fully absorbed by government with little
fiscal reallocation required.
Sustainability of funding for textbooks/workbooks appear likely. Students are purchasing books and the
modest dissolving subsidy will end in the near future. However, government will need to provide funding
for the continued development and dissemination of Teacher Guides and Training Manuals. Uncertainty
prevails about the future of SRMs and the instructional kits.
The long-term TA team focused on management restructuring contributed to the design and implementation
of a separate management cadre for teachers and managers. This is an important improvement and one
that has been institutionalized through policy. There is also now enough capacity in the DoE to carry out
construction at the district level and the experiences with top supervision has shown that C&W can carry
out quality construction work with top supervision support. The ground-breaking reform plan to establish
an elementary system based on decentralized structures, initially rejected by political authorities, has now
been partially adopted as policy and has very strong support by the Minister and all line officials. This is a
significant contribution to reform of the management system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regtular operations:
Neither PITE nor the BOC can yet independently deliver the teacher training program with quality and
effectiveness. However, with the continuation of the PEP-ILE program (GTZ, DFID, and NEDA) into a
second phase of five years, it is likely that the training program will continue; modifications will need to be
integrated into the decentralized district implementation plans. Teacher training has been identified by the
govenmment as a key area for future investment and continuing reform, and a likely component of an
externally funded future project. Other donors, particularly the Asian Development Bank, are also
planning to support quality elements; teacher training is included among the possible activities for such
support. Thus, sustainability of the teacher training component is high.
To promote the sustainability of instructional materials, PEP utilized regular government staff in design
work. The Materials Development Center was placed within the government line agency. Accordingly, the
project involved and trained regular government staff. Due to the technical skills required in production
processes, some contract staff were also engaged. Some loss of trained staff has taken place due to
transfer, retirement and attrition. With limited government expertise, a great deal of the technical work was
achieved by a large technical team of resident international long-term and short-term consultants.
Considerable capacity building and government commitment is required to ensure sustainability.
Government is considering hiring technically qualified individuals through contractual arrangements as
opposed to expanding civil service slots. Government plans to transfer the TTMDC, which is a project
created entity, to the Textbook Board. This is a complex task with risk involved for the sustainability of
capacities developed under the project, but an important and necessary step.
The lack of coordination with the department, the SAP coordinator, and PEPCO has largely kept the FEF
outside the SAP/sector dialogue; it has not been able to acquire acknowledgement or adequate support for
its role. Despite the efforts of the PEP and multicolor SAPP missions (which visited the Foundation and
reviewed it's programs periodically) urging government to address endemic problems, the FEF continues to
be a marginalized institution. Lack of leadership and institutional capacity have prevented FEF from
availing itself of financing and assistance opportunities from SAPP funds. Government and PEP's vision
for FEF remains largely unfulfilled.
The risks inherent in the conservative socio-cultural rural environment of NWFP also need to be noted.
During the last year of the project three rural schools were closed due to the pressure/insistence of local
- 16 -



religious leaders. The government needs to be vigilant in ensuring voluble public support for education.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
At the time of negotiations, the Bank was requested by the Borrower to increase the size of the loan by $25
million over the amount recommended at appraisal. The Bank acquiesced to this request. In hindsight, the
request should not have been granted given the overall resource utilization.
The Project confirms what should have been known at appraisal: Government cannot bring about
fundamental reforms quickly. The provisions for field supervision of site selection, construction and
improvement of schools were inadequate initially. Establishing an efficient, effective mechanism for the
management of construction, especially of the magnitude contained in PEP, proved to be a major problem
which took nearly three years to sort out adequately. The arrangements for site selection and construction
supervision proved to be inadequate and had to be developed/modified during implementation of the
project. The coordination of financial support and technical assistance from donors was carried out with
relative harmony and cooperation. Collaboration among the donors was for the most part excellent
although there were points of friction between some of the TA personnel and government. The DFID
suspension highlighted the importance of having provisional backup arrangements for TA critical to project
implementation in the event one or more donors is not able to participate as expected in the consortium.
The initial project appraisal lacked an objective assessment of the existing financial management systems
and procurement capacities of the Borrower. Had procurement actions been better specified in advance and
procurement capacities been more carefully examined, and a procurement plan been formulated at that
time, subsequent financial management difficulties might have been avoided, or at least minimized.
Similarly, the initial project documents lacked analyses of the economic costs, effects or benefits of the
project.
The Bank's performance improved following the restructuring of the project. The improvement appears to
be a combination of more proactive/supportive supervision, greater continuity in the staffing of supervision
missions and support provided between formal mission reviews. Over time, improvements in the technical
and managerial leadership of the Primary Education Directorate also helped to create a more favorable
implementation climate.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was much more stable in the last three years of the project than in the early
years. Following restructuring, the supervision missions became much more proactive in helping
government to find solutions to problems rather than just identifying where problems existed. The
collaborative nature of the working relationship was one of the reasons that progress intensified in the last
half of the project. Following restructuring, the new supervision team members recognized that
government had little ownership of several of the elements added during restructuring and had even less
capacity to carry them out effectively. Consequently, it was mutually agreed with government, and
recorded in the Aide Memoires, that the radio math education component would not be pursued and the
scholarship and innovation program would not be insisted upon unless government felt that it had available
human resources devoted to implementing and monitoring those components. Focus was placed by both the
supervision teams and government on completing the core quality improvement elements (textbooks and
instructional materials and teacher training), construction and procurement, and on community
participation including development of PTAs. During the middle years of the project, the Bank was remiss
in its lack of emphasis on financial management and accounting rigor. Financial management specialists
- 17 -



were not involved in supervision until the last eighteen months of the project. Better supervision of
financial management by the supervision teams in the first three years of the project might have led to more
timely action in implementing proper record keeping, adequate internal controls, accurate financial
statements, timely audit reports and appropriate follow-up of audit observations. While most procurement
was ably carried out, financial reviews in the last year of the project, and follow-up on tardy audit reports
revealed that a number of expenditures had to be disallowed on both procedural and audit grounds. Earlier
and more aggressive intervention by the Bank might not have prevented those problems from occurring, but
might have resulted in earlier identification of and resolution of the issues. The end of project rush to
complete civil works, coupled with the urgency to process backlogged audit reports and SOEs placed undue
pressure on both the Borrower and the Bank to process all eligible expenses within the allowable time
period. Coordination with financial management staff of other donors would also have assisted in the
donors being fully aware of common problems and those of the implementing agencies/departments and in
developing a remedial action plan in the earlier years of the program.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank was marginally satisfactory. The Bank underestimated
implementation difficulties and overestimated implementation capacity in the initial design of the project.
This led to delays in the implementation of the project and to cancellation of a substantial part of the
original credit amount. However, the project performed better after it was restructured - not because of the
restructuring itself - but because of changes in Government personnel, greater clarity on objectives and
because greater emphasis was placed on problem solving than fault-finding. Greater continuity of both
Bank and DoE staffing and increased emphasis on targeted action plans improved follow-through on
important tasks. Early attention to project financial management weaknesses could have helped avoid the
subsequent difficulties encountered, which eventually compelled the Bank to temporarily discontinue
disbursements at a critical period near the end of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During the first three years of the project, rapid turnover of senior staff in senior leadership roles in the
DoE resulted in frequent shifts in direction and substantial periods of confusion as new appointees
struggled to understand their jobs and project objectives. PEP was envisioned as a program- THE program
for the province in primary education, that was jointly supported by all donors. Throughout the project,
there was confusion about the relationship among SAP, PEP, and SAPP. No other province had a fully
integrated donor-assisted program of development/support, so the confusion was understandable. Better
coordination among senior officials from P&D, Finance and Education might have alleviated some of this
confusion.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Delays in the release of funds from the ADP for up to seven months over each annual budget cycle, and the
withholding of authority to spend released fands, adversely affected the completion of civil works and
eroded confidence in implementing units. Failure to appoint technical staff to the RD&E unit and to
provide it a budget for even modest development expenditures effectively undercut the unit's ability to
produce policy relevant data and information.
Project implementation turned around from 1998 onwards, and peaked in the last year of the project as a
result of greater leadership quality and continuity, strong management by the Program Manager, better
relations between the Department and Finance Department, high level regular oversight by senior
Government officials and by the political leadership of the province, and improved relations with the
donor-supplied technical assistance teams.
- 18 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Uncertainties over site selection, top supervision, and contracting issues hampered implementation of the
civil works portion of the project for nearly three years. Failure to appoint skilled persons in research and
evaluation to permanent posts under the project deprived the RD&E unit of impact and legitimacy.
Although training and performance improved in the latter years of the project, adequate training and
supervision were not provided to financial managers to ensure that agreed procedures were being followed.
Deviations from acceptable procedures led to a number of declarations of misprocurement. The value of
international technical assistance would have been greater if government counterparts had been identified
early and had worked more closely with international staff. However, in defense of government, some of
the long-term TA staff did little to establish strong working relationships with their government
counterparts as was their charge.
The project management team did not implement formal accounting procedures to ensure an effective
system of internal control. Project asset records are also inadequate and there is no evidence of
confirmation through a physical stock check of assets compared with recorded values. In some cases audit
reports were not in full compliance with IDA guidelines and issues raised by the auditors should have been
addressed in a more timely manner. There are still several audit reports outstanding.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
During the three years following project restructuring, staff continuity and high-level oversight contributed
to the project coming close to accomplishing many of its restructured targets. This positive result followed
a period at the start of the project when frequent tumover among key staff of the project and awkward
implementation arrangements delayed progress. Progress in the second half of the project was a result of
the sustained attention to implementation during this period on the part of government and stability of
personnel in key positions. Lack of training for project-related government staff in procedures and
reporting requirements of the Bank led to serious procurement and disbursement problems. Unfortunately,
although significant progress was made on access and quality objectives, administrative strengthening and
community involvement components fell short of expectations.
It is unfortunate that in assigning a rating to the Borrower's performance, two ratings cannot be given - one
for the first years of the project and one for the last years. Despite significant delays in the early years, the
project nearly succeeded in reaching all of its restructured construction and textbook/teaching objectives.
The outcomes for system strengthening and beneficiary participation were only partially completed and
institutionalized. Poor initial performance on civil works, a lack of significant progress on increasing
community involvement per the targets of the initial design, and failure to strengthen the research,
monitoring and evaluation components of the Department, are significant disappointments. During the
year-long period when the project was in an "unsatisfactory" status and near to being cancelled, insightful
plans were developed to improve system management (caderization and district-based elementary
structure). Caderization is being implemented and the restructuring of the system along the lines outlined
by the Restructuring Task Force and represents a significant advance in sound planning ideas and
devolution. Although the project fell short of achieving its original enrolment targets and failed to take
advantage of scholarship and innovation funds, significant increases in enrollments were achieved,
especially for girls, and 90% of revised civil works targets were achieved. In aggregate, the Borrower's
performance is judged to be marginally satisfactory over the life of the project, especially if weight is given
to improved performance in the last half of the project, and to project components that were of highest
priority and where disbursements were greatest (access and quality).
- 19 -



8. Lessons Learned
Project Design
Clear benchmarks were not established at appraisal that would have helped to operationalize what was
meant by "strengthening" the Department of Primary Education. Desired capacities, numbers of
individuals who would develop those capacities and desired outcomes or indicators of progress should have
been identified and agreed to at the outset of the project. Similarly, it would be advisable to have clarity on
the appropriate institutional home for the project early in the preparation and design phase. Had the design
team/government conducted a functional analysis of skill requirements and done skill audit followed by
development of a comprehensive training plan, capacity development and sustainability might have been
enhanced. Ownership by the mainline institutions of innovations was a major factor in their success
(textbooks).
Financial management systems and procurement procedures need to be well understood and in place at the
beginning of the project, or provision needs to be included in the project design to assist the client in
acquiring those skills. Steps were taken to correct these shortcoming with two years left in PEP, but
unnecessary delays in processing requests, temporary suspensions of reimbursements and unresolved
audited discrepancies could have been minimized with more upfront attention to financial and reporting
requirements. A comprehensive analysis of technical, managerial, and financial skill requirements to
implement the project, if conducted, at the outset of the project, might have enabled govemment to put in
place a long-term, integrated capacity development plan and permitted the addition of necessary skills on a
contract basis in a more timely effective fashion.
Project Management
Capacity development efforts involving extemal TA benefit from close coordination/consultation with
government officials or other relevant staff. The TA technical/advisory teams would have strengthened
their impact by integrating themselves better programmatically, physically and socially/psychologically into
on-going DPE activities. In the absence of a strong Director of PE in the early stages of the project, TA
teams acted increasingly independently to achieve program objectives at the expense of sustainability and
support from line officials. Mentoring support for the Director should have been developed and efforts
made to keep the project fully in the line agency. In the absence of strong leadership from govemment,
projects need to incorporate a strategy for mentoring and transition.
A detailed appraisal of the financial management system must be carried out at inception and minimum
improvements required should be implemented prior to approval of the project. In this case, for example,
technical assistance and computerization would have greatly assisted more accurate and timely information
and better control. Donors' and specifically Bank's reporting requirements need to be explained in detail to
the Borrower, and assessment carried out to establish whether the implementing agency/agencies have the
capacity to prepare the financial reports (both for intemal management as well as donors' requirements)
and whether suitable arrangements have been made for audit. It is imperative that the Auditors General's
office (where audit is to be carried out by that office) be involved at inception to confirm that the
accounting and auditing arrangements are satisfactory. To minimize additional reporting, while ensuring
that all donor requirements are met, the financial statements for such programs should be comprehensive
and show all sources of financing as well as total expenditure by program components.
All financial reporting should be the responsibility of the most senior finance official of the coordinating
office, who must be fully familiar with the finance and accounting arrangements of other implementing
- 20 -



agencies and be responsible, along with the Project Manager, for handling all audit issuesfor the entire
project. In program financing such as this, it is important that the finance and accounts procedures be fully
documented in the form of a manual, at inception, so that they are known and understood by all concerned.
Implementation
Monitoring indicators need to be realistic and measurable by the implementing agency. Non-achievable
expectations of performance (e.g., assumed sanctioning authority) should be avoided and can be prevented
by thorough vetting with line officials prior to appraisal. Technical assistance must be clearly defined and
adhered to, decision making must rest with the government, and government must provide leadership to the
TA, not vice versa. Contractual engagement of large teams of local staff at significantly higher salaries
than their counterparts in government leads to resentment amongst government staff.
Implementing the in-service teacher training program through the existing system and by the regular staff
of the education system has contributed to sustainability and effectiveness. Synchronizing inputs such as
the new instructional materials with the teacher training program maximized benefits and minimized costs.
Government needs to institutionalize these capacities and tools by fully supporting the development of the
PITEs.
Special efforts need to be made by government and donors to include relevant non-government/private
sector agencies in the sector dialogue (policy and strategy) to build commitment to an agreed and
commonly shared set of goals.
Capacity
Given the poor salary structure in government, it is unlikely that government can attract and retain high
quality technical specialists. For future development activities requiring specialized skills, (such as
textbook production, GIS, etc.) government may need to consider selectively contracting the best expertise
from the market as opposed to carrying the long-term liabilities of poorly skilled, non-performing regular
staff. However, special hirings should be limited to special skill need situations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Capacity has declined in research, development and evaluation during the project period and the situation
will not be reversed unless: (i) entities concerned with planning use empirical data as a basis for decision
making; (ii) decision makers have confidence in the validity of the data; (iii) data can be produced in a
timely manner in a decision-oriented format; (iv) significant resource investment is made in fiscal and
capacity development; and (v) the monitoring unit is bureaucratically situated to serve most easily the
officials who need the data.
Civil Works
School designs should be established on the basis of specific regional conditions, climate, available
materials of construction and economies of scale. More flexibility should be built into site selection of
schools; criteria cannot usually be the same for plain and hilly areas--travel time rather than distance
should be the basis for criteria. Dialogue concerning the needs of the community at prospective building
and rehabilitation sites should be carried out with school-specific detailed cost estimates prepared based on
soil and site conditions and other needed external works before funding is approved and work is authorized.
- 21 -



Construction and Works needs to take understandable and transparent steps to prevent collusion of
contractors and to encourage competition. A performance roster of all contractors should be maintained to
encourage good contractors and to identify those who do not meet specified standards. Such a roster
should be a public document.
Summary Observations
Subsequent efforts to strengthen and expand the primary education system in NWFP (and elsewhere) would
do well to pay special attention to the design phase lessons noted above; they form the foundation for a
solid project. In the coming months, government needs to solidify its significant progress in teacher
training and textbook development and to ensure sufficient fiscal and technical support to these activities.
Unless stronger linkages are formed with community organizations and the private sector, government will
not reach its goal of universal primary education in the near future. The Department needs to immediately
strengthen its monitoring capacity, especially its collection and analysis of school data to engage in efficient
and effective planning. Government has been able to draw on SAPP n resources to maintain its fiscal
commitment to basic education over the past three years. However, with SAPP coming to an end,
Government will need to commit a larger share of its own resources in order to maintain stasis, let along
continue to develop the sector. Compared to other countries in the region, Pakistan, including NWFP,
spends only approximately one-half of the regional norm on basic education. Yet, the education statistics
from the last seven years indicate that NWFP has increased enrollments at a rate faster than the national
average. NWFP has provided funds for instructional materials and repairs to individual schools (initially in
the face of considerable opposition by vested authorities), a fact noted and appreciated by parents and
community groups. A renewed fiscal and political commitment to quality and accountability is required if
all future cohorts of children are to be guaranteed a basic education.
The Borrower has made a number of sound recommendations in its contribution to this ICR. Chief among
those are the need to ensure that regular staff participate in the project whenever feasible and that
strengthened capacity should be one of the guarantees of Technical Assistance. Local entities such as
District Boards should have a greater say in activities such as site selection for construction and
rehabilitation, and top supervision should be institutionalized in the Construction and Works Department.
Frequent transfers of key staff should be avoided. The Bank does take issue, however, with the Borrowers'
recommendations on specific limits/conditions being placed on hiring of consultants, for some of these
proposals are in contradiction with Bank policies. Government's recommendation that there be both quality
and continuity in consultants is one which the Bank endorses.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
TO BE FAXED
GOVERNMENT OF NWFP
PRIMARY EDUCATION & LITERACY DEPARTMENT
NO. CPO/PRO (SAP)/1/PEP/2000-01.
DATED PESHAWAR, 1 ST AUGUST 2001
To
- 22 -



Syed Amir Hussain Naqvi,
Senior Education Sector Specialist,
World Bank Resident Mission,
20-A, Shahrah-e-Jumhuriat,
Ramna 5/1, Islamabad
Subject: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT-NWFP PEP CREDIT 2687-PAK
Reference is invited to your lette of July 12, 2001 on the subject above.
I am directed to submit the following comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report of
the NWFP Primary Education program 1995-2000 project.
1.    Para-3 of ICR. The ICR primarily discusses the IDA portion of the PEP Project. PEP was
conceived with a programmatic approach as an umbrella project, as is evident from the PEP 'Staff
Appraisal Report' of the World Bank. The Primary Education & Literacy Department (PELD) is of the
opinion that the ICR should reflect the same approach.
2.     Para-3.4 of ICR. The 'Revised Components' are given in SDR thereby making a meaningful
judgment difficult. The 'Revised Components' may be indicated in US dollars also.
3.     Para-4.1 of ICR. The data at Annexure I should be corrected as per EMIS Report of 2000-01:
The number of primary schools has risen from 20,317 in 1993-94 to 22,375 in 2000-001.
The school census for 2000-01 is available according to which the total primary education
enrolment is 2,047,371 of which 1,277,363 are boys and 770,008 are girls. Hence, the overall
increase in enrolnent since 1994-95 is 327,433, which is 19.04%. The increase in boys'
enrolment is 113,073 (9.7%). The increase in girls' enrolment is 214, 360 (38.6%). The
average dropout rate between classes Kachi to Class-5 in 2000-01 is 8%.
The PELD partially agrees with the assessment of the World Bank in attributing the increase in
enrolment to PEP.
The number of teachers trained during the currency of the project is 56,460.
4.     Para-4.2. 1 (a) of ICR: The PELD was unable to understand the basis for the 15,740 classrooms
indicated in the ICR. The following is the component-wise achievement against allocated targets:
Components                                    Targets   Achievements
New Establishment                                 2714           2707
Conversion of GMPS                                   739           610
Construction of Addl. C/Rooms                      7851           3105
Reconstruction of Primary Schools                   702            631
Repair & Rehabilitation                             1395          2121
Provision of building for shelterless Primary schools  313         167
Upgradation of Primary Schools to Middle Status     660            500
Provision of B/Facilities                          200C           2493
- 23 -



5.     Para-4.2.2(a) of ICR: The amount for Teacher Training given in the ICR of US$ 21.2 million is
not correct. The actual allocation for Teacher Training under PEP was US$ 4.0 million.
6.     Para-5.2 of ICR: The PELD does not agree to the assertion that PITE has been rendered
marginalized in contrast to its envisaged role. All future teacher-training activities are being undertaken
under the planning and management of PITE throughout the province.-
Under the devolution plan, 220 posts of teacher trainers (ADO B-1 6) have been created to ensure
institutionalization and continuation of progress achieved under the teacher training component.
7. Para- 5.3 (ii! of ICR:  The assessment conflicts with para-4.5 institutional development impact
wherein CAU has been credited with good practices and transparent processing & tendering of civil
works.,
In view of the devolution of powers to district level, the Construction Advisory Unit (CAU), which was
still in a nascent stage and process of development, despite the efforts of Education Department could
not be retained and has been closed with effect from 30.6.2001.
The PELD is of the opinion that considerable delay in the completion of civil works under the project
can also be attributed to the condition of World Bank for top supervision consultants on C&W Dept.
The demand had to be eventually accepted by the government after considerable debate on the issue.
Significant time was also spent on time-consuming procurement procedures of World Bank involved in
the hiring of top supervision consultants also.
8.     Para-5.4 of ICR: The PELD agrees that delays in the release of ADP funds was witnessed in some
cases, however, the statement cannot be generalized for the whole period of the project.
According to the record available with PELD, a total expenditure of US$ 83.026 million has been
incurred from IDA credit under the project. Hence, the difference of US$ 0.475 million needs to be
checked and reconciled.
The World Bank is requested to provide information with regard to exchange rate adopted and
detail of the disbursements affected to the Government of NWFP under PEP. This information is
necessary to ensure proper reconciliation of figures given at Annex 2.
9.     Annex 4 'Bank Inputs': The PELD is of the view that performance rating of the World Bank's
identification/preparation stage needs to be made as the project has come to a close.
(Naeem Firdaus Khan
Progress Officer (SAP)
Endst: No: & Date Even:
Copy forwarded for information to:
1.     P.S to Minister for Education NWFP
- 24 -



2.     P.S to Additional Chief Secretary, Government of NWFP
3.     P.S to Secretary, Primary Education & Literacy, Government of NWFP
Progress Officer (SAP)
(b) Cofinanciers:
DFID:
"DFID would agree with many of the points made in this report about the management of the project. In
particular the need to ensure close coordination and consultation with key government personnel and
departments is endorsed. It is equally important to integrate government staff fully into project
management. Donor coordination was complex but reasonably successful given the number of donors
involved. Given that DFID, GTZ and other donor assistance is continuing following closure of the IDA
portion of PEP, it is anticipated that some further progress will be made in achieving PEP objectives."
GTZ responded that it was in agreement with the basic findings of the report and endorsed the DFID
comment above.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
COMMENTS                                       Boys             Girls
Enrolment increase K-5 from AY96 to AY97                                   1994-5   1,164,290       555,648
(Govt. schools only).                 The data reported on the left are from several 1999-00  1,277,363  770,008
-Girls: 656000 or 9.2%             sources including PIHS. There is
-Boys: 1244000. or 4.6%            considerable risk in making direct    Total     1,719,938 vs. 2,047,371
-Total: 1900000 or 6.1 %           comparisons with the initial target data. Initial
data almost certainly included both public and Comments: Increase in enrolment over the
private sector enrolments. However, even  period from 1994-95 to 2000-01 as per
today the private sector enrolments are  Annual School Census Reports are:
inaccurate estimates at best. Government's  Girls 38.6%
data are intemally inconsistent. Hence,  Boys: 9.6%
making direct comparisons for purposes of  Boys: 9.7%
measuring impact are risky, especially since  Total: 19.04%
both the base numbers and the latest
"actuals" are subject to error.
Gross enrolment rate for K-5 (these are not                                As per Annual School Census Report for the
reliable estimates due to the lack of accurate                             Year 1999-2000, Gross Enrolment Rates are:
population data).
--Girls: 47.8%                                                            Girls: 52.8%
-Boys: 84%                                                                Boys: 82.4%
--Total: 66.6%                                                            Total: 68.1%
Drop-out rate                         Percentage of 10-18 year olds who left  Girls: 22%
--Girls: 9.4%                      school before completng Gr. 5; Source   Boys: 14%
-Boys: 6.8%                         PIHS, 1998-99                        Level  94-95     98-99
Kachi
M      6.7%     13.5%
F     10.5%     18.0
Gr. 1
M      6.8%     10.7%
F      9.7%     14.9%
Gr. 2
M      5.8%      9.4%
F      6.2%     10.7%
Gr. 3
M      5.8%      9.8%
F      7.9%      11.8%
Gr. 4
M      7.3%      11.4%
F      9.1%      14.7%
%Repetition rate                     Not clear how the base line figures were
--Girls: 5.3%                      calculated. Not possible to calculate current Girls:
--Boys: 5.4%                       numbers with existing govt. data.     Boys:
Promotion rate                       ibid
-Girls: 85.3%                                                            Girls:
--Boys: 87.8%                                                            Boys:
Primary Completion Rate, Class 5
-Girls: 68.5%                                                            Girls: 57%
-Boys: 79.2%:                                                            Boys: 69%
Elementary Completion Rate           ibid- not available
--Girls: 85%                                                             Girls:
--Boys: 90%9:                                                            Boys:
Absenteeism Rate                      Data are not reported in aggregate form.  N/A
-Girls:
--Boys:
Student/Teacher ratio                                                      As per Annual School Census Report
- 26 -



--Girl's schools: 1/34                                                   1999-2000, Student Teacher Ratios are:
--Boy's schools: 1/35                                                    Girls' schools: 1/35
Boys' schools: 1/34
Student/Classroom ratio              Category is misleading since many     Comments: As per School Census Report
--Girls: 1/36                      elementary classrooms are now         1999-2000, the Student/Classroom ratios
-Boys: 1/45                        co-educational.                       are:
Girls: 1/39
Boys: 1/36
Schools with 0 enrollment:                                                 As per School Census Report for the year
--Girl's: 176                                                            1999-2000, schools with zero enrolment are:
-Boy's: 271                                                                Girls' schools: 269
Boys' schools: 124
Number of Schools by Gender                                               (1) As per School Census Report for the
--Girl's schools: 5887                                                   year 2000-2001, total schools are:
--Boy's schools: 10107
--Mosque schools: 6601                                                     Girls' schools: 7,641
Total schools: 22595                                                     Boys' schools: 14,734
Mosque:    3,065
Maktab:     145
(2) Mosque and Maktab schools are
included in total boys' schools reported
Mosque:
Student Achievement Score                                                  N/A
Reading classes 3&5
--Girls: 70
-Boys: 70                                                               N/A
Arithmetic classes 3&5
--Girls: 38
-Boys: 58
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
Access, Equity, and Efficiency                    256.47        137.13           0.53
Learning Environment                               38.99          5.31           0.13
Institutional Framework                           20.23          19.29           0.95
Beneficiary participation                          4.32           0.05           0.01
Total Baseline Cost                               320.01        161.78
Total Project Costs           320.01         161.78
Total Financing Required           320.01         161.78
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         192.00       0.00         0.00        192.00
(0.00)      (81.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (81.00)
2. Goods                     1.50        15.00         1.20        7.10        24.80
(1.20)       (8.40)       (0.90)       (0.00)      (10.50)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        7.90         2.80         10.70
Consultants                (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.90)       (0.00)      (7.90)
Implementation
4.Services                   0.00         0.00         6.40         12.0        18.4
Capacity Building           (0.00)       (0.00)       (3.60)       (0.00)      (3.60)
Project management
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        2.30         2.70         5.00
Training overseas          (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.20)       (0.00)      (2.20)
Scholarships
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00        83.50         0.00        83.50
Incremental Salaries        (0.00)       (0.00)      (45.00)       (0.00)      (45.0)
7. Incremental Non-salary    0.00         0.00         0.00         8.1          8.1
expenditure                 (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     1.50        207.00       101.30        32.70       342.5
(1.20)      (89.40)       (59.60)      (0.00)     (150.20)
Government Finance
- 28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
,Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB          Other2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           66.00         0.00          64.84         130.84
(0.00)        (66.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (66.00)
2. Goods                        0.00           4.02          0.00           0.62          4.64
(0.00)         (4.02)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.02)
3. Services                     0.00           1.25          0.00           0.68          1.93
Consultants                     (0.00)        (1.25)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.25)
Implementation
4.Services                      0.00           0.96          0.00           9.71         10.67
Capacity Building               (0.00)        (0.96)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.96)
Project management
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.04          0.00           0.83          0.87
Training overseas              (0.00)          (0.04)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.04)
Scholarships
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           11.22         0.00           1.87         13.09
Incremental Salaries and        (0.00)        (11.22)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (11.22)
Existing Recurrent
Expenditure
Total                         0.00          83.49          0.00          78.55        162.04
(0.00)        (83.49)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (83.49)
Differences between total expenditures in tables due to rounding error
'X Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.  .   .                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate        n      f
Bank      Govt      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Access, Equity, Efficiency  135.50  118.80   25.10     71.01     47.29     18.83    52.4   39.8   75.0
Learning Environment     9.30      13.90     12.00     0.62       0.09      4.69     6.7    0.6   39.1
Institutional Framework  2.80      14.90     5.60      11.53                5.89    411.8   0.0   105.2
Beneficiary Participation  2.40    0.40       1.80     0.05       1.87               2.1   467.5   0.0
Total Cost              150.00     148.00    44.50     83.21     49.25     29.41    55.5   33.3   66.1
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfornance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 23-28, 1992             6   One general educator, one
advisor, one educator, one
architect, one human resource
specialist, and one teacher
training specialist
September 12 -               7   One general educator, one project
October 1, 1992                  advisor, one educator, one human
resource specialist, one
procurement specialist, one
textbook specialist, and two
education specialists (ODA)
April 25 - May 21,          10   One general educator, one project
1993                             advisor, one implementation
specialist, one human resource
specialist, one book specialist,
one private school specialist, one
teacher training specialist, one
management training specialist,
two consultants (KfW)
August 27 -                 11   One general educator, one project
September 7, 1993                advisor, one implementation
- pre-appraisal                  specialist, one economist, one
education specialist, one textbook
specialist, one teacher training
specialist, one management
training specialist, one architect,
two consultants (KfW)
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 23 - July 3,           13   One general educator, one
1994                             project advisor, one
implementation specialist,
one economist, one social
sector analyst, (one country
head (GTZ), one education
advisor (ODA), one senior
economist, one project
manager, one consultant
(KfW), one senior advisor
basic education (Netherlands
DGIS), one project
formulation advisor (JICA),
and one project officer
(USAID)
Supervision
Pre-effectiveness            I   One educator                       HS            HS
- 31 -



mission - April
23-27, 1995
October 21 -                 5   One project advisor, one          S             S
November 1, 1995                 economist, one human resource
specialist, one architect and one
economist
December 2-7,                5   One human resource specialist,    S             S
1995                            one project advisor, two
economists, and one architect
April 7-15, 1996             3   One project advisor, one human    S             S
resource specialist and one
architect
November 21 -                3   One educator, one human           S             S
December 3, 1996                resource specialist, and one
architect
May - June 11,               3   One educator, one economist,      S             S
1997                            and one architect
December 3-13,               7   Four educators, two economists,   U             S
1997                            and one architect
April 20-25, 1998            4   Two educators, one economist,     U             U
and one architect
November 9-14,               3   One educator, one social sectors  S             U
1998                            specialist, and one team assistant
May 1-15, 1999               2   One educator, and one social      S             S
sector specialist
September 27 -              12   Four education specialists, one   S             S
October 1, 1999                  social sector specialist, one
community development
specialist, one economist, one
financial management specialist,
one disbursement analyst, one
procurement analyst, one
engineer, and one architect
ICR
November 7-13,              9    Three education specialists,      S             S
2001                             one community
development specialist, one
economist, one financial
management specialist, one
disbursement analyst, one
procurement analyst, and
one architect; 2 peer
reviewers
- 32 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              54.1                 123,700.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                   69.2                 202,857.00
Supervision                           127.63                 287,903.00
ICR                                    19.10                  52,830.81
Total                                270.03                  667.290.81
c. Trust Funds:
Stage of Project Cycle               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff Weeks              US$(,000)
Preparation                      161.1                  687,540.00
Supervision                      67.8                   277,268.00
Total                           228.9                   964,808.00
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanbal, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Appltcable)
Rating
l Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  OSU*M O N O NA
a Physical                             O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
L Financial                            OH   OSUOM      ON    *NA
a Institutional Development            0 H O SU * M    0 N 0 NA
Li Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction              O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
El Gender                        OH *SUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M * N     0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   * N   0 NA
i Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM O N        * NA
- 34-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
D Lending                                         OHS OS       *U    OHU
L Supervision                                     OHS OS       O U   O HU
L Overall                                         OHS O S      O u   O HU
62 Borrower performance                           Rating
L Preparation                                     OHS OS       * U   O HU
L Government implementation performance           O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance               O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
L Overall                                         OHS OS       O u   O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide-Memoires of various Supervision Missions. World Bank.October 1995, December 1995, February
1996, April, 1996, June 1996, December 1996, April 16, 1997, January 1998, March 1998, June
1998, January 5, 2000
Amendment of Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement. World Bank. September 3, 1997.
Correspondence during Restructuring of NWFP Project and Aide Memoire. World Bank. 1997
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank. June -
July 1994
Development Credit Agreement (NWFP) Primary Education Program between Islamic Republic of
Pakistan and International Development Association, Credit Number 2687. World Bank. April 7,
1995
Identification Mission Terms of Reference and Back to Office Report. World Bank. June - October, 1992
North West Frontier Province Prmary Education Program. Six Monthly Project Progress Reports. The
British Council. August 1996 - March 2001
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
August - October 19, 1993
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
September 1992 - June 15, 1993
Project Agreement (NWFP) Project Education Program Project) between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
International Development Association, Credit Number 2687. World Bank. April 7, 1995
Project Status Reports (PSR Nos. 1-12) 1995-2000
Second Social Action Project (SAPP). Multi-Donor Review Mission, National Overview Aide Memoire.
World Bank. June 2000
Second Social Action Project (SAPP). Multi-Donor Draft Operational Plan Review, Discussion Notes,
NWFP. World Bank. April 2000
Second Social Action Project (SAPP). Multi-Donor Review Mission, National Overview Aide Memoire.
World Bank. February 2000
StaffAppraisal Report. World Bank. February 16, 1995
- 36 -



IBRD 26172
65' \JJZBEK. >  70<TAJ jK  TAJIKISTAN 75CHINA   720                    #                        740
N TURKMENISTAN        ?) r.'--'t. 
>   C-  -4.r y  t>gr5   1.            i    ~~TAJIKISTAN 
35- ._}                                 3           \',                                     _
J                         < N.W.F.P 0Ap. x'i;\/'
/                    Islumu3 ces, . 9  /N  
C.  AFGHANISTAN     c     4"4 AMlU1__
w.      r 6r                                         /
/    PUNJAB  .,f             /
1 _ _ _  -  r       -30  36'         CHITRAL       (                                36'
BALOCHISTAN
ISLAMIC)                          N    A
REP OF                           I IN D IA
IRAN  2
SINDH ~  ~      ~      '
J ,                                     s S)NDH  25             -'              , :=
A,obiraI Sea     ft*
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~071I A
6.5-        -  44           75-.                                       .  .  .
A             .,*' r          SWA    *, * /  - P   *: :SW
The boundories, colors, denominations and any other informotion  D  , R               * 
shown on this mnap do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group, n  D
any judgment on the legol status of ony territory, or any endorsement  ;,
or acceptance of such boundaries.                                              '/
20  40  60  80  1 00 KILOMETERS    ,                                                  
10 20 )r, jrs ,rs MILEc                            J      C                   MANSHERA
0  1 0 20 30 AO SO MILES               4!1A,KAD''
0                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~C  (MALAKAND ),
. -X s -BUNER
(r MARDAN
340              S                           J       CH)ARSADDA\       ' ,    ''    -. 340
\  '  j            'i!sfdas^ - #  - -.  SWABI  /  kABBOUA\
____ *-    _.tPeskr.%Ar *                         HARIPUR _5    /t        f   --
( *                        Peslsot2a   NOWSHERAC      '?         ,   )     " LJne of Control
t       ls  \        {__.S4    -'''-0-           -'           2 9             (         *-
(:)         ,  \  ,f             ~~~~~~KOHAT   . 
!                    rSt                t    i              PAKISTAN
/                    >*zu }                             NWFP PRIMARY
)                   X - -.' \                    EDUCATION PROGRAM
K                        ,      +-m     )AVAILABILITY OF GIRLS
;  y;     w                SCHOOLS BY DISTRICT
-320                      ,/TANK        .      /                      GIRLS SCHOOLS PER 1000 POPULATION:    32-
\   \  ,/  .                 .    . 0.03-0.14
,   ,/ '/   . . -  !   =  0.15- 0.26
0.238 -0.48
0.27 - 0.37
/ :            t       ' 'n- ---- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
I          ;---- .r |DIVISION BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,/: .  - J -           -- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BALOCHISTAN                 \z                                     TRIBAL AREA
70'   I                                   72'                                        740
OCTOBER 1994



