CREDIT NUMBER 2687 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(North West Frontier Province Primary Education Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2687 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      A9 1U 1     , 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated December 13, 1994
from the North West Frontier Province (the Province) endorsed by the Borrower,
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the quality
and efficiency of the primary education sector (hereinafter called the Program), and
declaring the Province's commitment to carrying out such Program;
(B)    the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)    the Project will be carried out by the Province with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Province;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble. to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanmngs:


﻿-2-
(a)    "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and
the Province of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)    "DOE" means the Department of Education of the Province;
(c)    "DPE" means the Directorate of Primary Education within DOE;
(d)    "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower and the Province
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30; and
(e)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR
104,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to. this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause the Province
to open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Pakistan
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set


﻿-3-
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2015 shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to


﻿-4-
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary (Development) of the Province is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform ,in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Province therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b)    The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the
Province in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the Province
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in


﻿-6-
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    The Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Province will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)    The Province shall have altered, amended or waived any provisions of the
Frontier Education Foundation Act, 1992 and the Rules made thereunder of even date
therewith so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Province to implement
Part A.5 of the Project.
(d)    An event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program
or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or


﻿-7-
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is legally binding upon the Province in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section
Officer in such Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:             Telex:
ECONOMIC                     ECIDV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                       197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly autiiorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By HO                   ~A4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/S/                      W       Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                   50,600,000        95%
(2)   Equipment,                     6,600,000        100% of foreign
furniture,                                       expenditures, and
educational                                      100% of local
and training                                     expenditures (ex-
materials                                       factory costs) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)   Consultants'                  11,000,000        100%
services,
fellowships
and training


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Eguivalent)        to be Financed
(4)   Incremental                   30,500,000        90% until
salaries                                         withdrawals
amount to
SDR 8,000,000;
60% thereafter
until
withdrawals
amount to
SDR 23,000,000;
and 45%
thereafter.
(5)   Unallocated                    5,300,000
TOTAL                    104,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "incremental salaries" means salaries of additional staff employed
by the Province for purposes of the Project after the date of this Agreement.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made:
(a)    in respect of payments made for expeiditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and


﻿- 11 -
(b)    in respect of payments made for expenditures for goods and services
supplied under a contract which any national or international financing institution or
agency other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of: (i) $200,000 for works, goods or textbook production; (ii) $100,000 for
services of consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual consultants,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description.of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve access, equity and efficiency in
primary education, particularly for girls; (b) to improve the quality of the learning
environment in all schools; (c) to improve the organizational framework, and the planning,
management, assessment and monitoring capacity of the provincial education system; and
(d) to increase village level beneficiary participation in all phases of primary education
service delivery.
The Project, which supports the Province's five-year plan in the primary education
sector covering FYs 95-96 through 99-00, consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to
time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:       Improving access. equity and efficiency
1.     Construction of new schools and classrooms, and construction and rehabilitation
of classrooms in new and existing schools.
2.     Provision of furniture and storage for books and materials, in new schools, and
boundary walls and latrines in all new and existing schools to which classrooms are
added.
3.     Carrying out of maintenance works in schools.
4.     Carrying out school planning and design, and construction management and
supervision.
5.     Carrying out of schemes for provision of financial assistance to girls from low-
income families to attend private schools through the Frontier Education Foundation of
the Province with the aim of encouraging private sector participation in education.
Part B:       ImRroving the Learning Environment
1.     Strengthening the quality and availability of primary education teachers, inter aia
through: (a) in-service training of teachers to extend teaching strategies and enhance
subject knowledge of the primary school curriculum; (b) training of teacher trainers; and
(c) enhancing the effectiveness of teacher training institutions through development of
improved instructional methods.


﻿- 13 -
2.     Provision of instructional materials and supplementary readers suitable for multi-
grade teaching and learning.
art:                Improving Organizational Framework. Planning and Management
1.     Strengthening the management, administration, planning and development
functions of DPE through the provision of consultants' services, training and equipment.
2.     Strengthening the management information system within the DPE through the
provision of consultants' services, training and equipment.
3.     Carrying out of education research, policy, monitoring and evaluation studies.
4.     Improving the operation of the primary education system through a series of
efficiency-enhancing measures and incentives.
Part D:       Beneficiary Participation
1.     Provision of technical assistance to carry out schemes to involve beneficiaries in
decision-making and planning processes related to development of primary education,
through, inter alia, the formation of village education committees.
2.     Establishment of community managed schools and the rehabilitation of
government schools through community participation, including carrying out schemes for
the provision of financial assistance to girls from low-income families to attend such
schools.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 17,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)     (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 15 -
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall r -t be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to fumish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into


﻿- 16 -
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cat,Yories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


