Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18506-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 141.7 MILLION
(US$194.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
NOVEMBER 3,1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1.0 = US$0.0236
US$1.00 = Rs. 42.3
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAI        Allahabad Agricultural Research Institute     MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
APC        Agriculture Production Commissioner           MTR        Mid Term Review
BIRD       Banker's Institute of Rural Development       NABARD  National Agriculture and Rural
CARF       Competitive Agricultural Research                        Development Bank
Funding                                       NATP       National Agricultural Technology Project
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                   NBF        Not Bank-Financed
CGWB       Central Groundwater Board                     NBRI       National Botanical Research Institute
CIMAP    Central Institute for Medicinal and             NCB        National Competitive Bidding
Aromatic Plants                               NDUAT   Narendra Dev University of Agriculture
CSAUAT  Chandrashekar Azad University of                            and Technology
Agriculture and Technology                    NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CSSRI    Central Soil Salinity Research Institute        NPV        Net Present Value
DAH        Department of Animal Husbandry                PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
DAP        Diammonium Phosphate Fertilizer               PDI        Project Development Input
DOH        Department of Horticulture                    PIP        Project Implementation Plan
EMP        Environmental Management Plan                 PMC        Project Management Cell
ERR        Economic Rate of Return                       PRA        Participatory Rapid Appraisal
FRR        Financial Rate of Return                      PWD        Public Works Department
GIS        Geographic Information System                 QBS        Quality-based Selection
GOI        Government of India                           QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
COUP       Government of Uttar Pradesh                   Rs         Indian Rupee
GPS        Geographic Positioning System                 RSAC       Remote Sensing Applications Center
HIRD       Human Resources Development                   SHG        Self-Help Groups
ICAR       Indian Council of Agricultural Research       SIC        Site Implementation Committee
ICB        International Competitive Bidding             SIP        Site Implementation Plans
ID        Irrigation Department                          SREP       Strategic Research and Extension Plans
IDA        International Development Association         TOR        Terms of Reference
IIM        Indian Institute of Management                UPBSN    Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam
IRR        Internal Rate of Return                       UPCAR    Uttar Pradesh Council of Agriculture and
KS         Kisan Sahayaks (extension agents)                        Research
KVK        Krishi Vivek Kendra Agricultural Univ.        UPDASP  Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agricultural
LCS        Least-Cost Selection                                     Support Project
LRU        Land Reclamation Units                        USSL       US Soil Salinity Laboratory
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                     WSHG       Women Self-Help Groups
MK         Mitra Kisan (progressive male farmer)         WUG        Water User Groups
MMK        Mahila Mitra Kisan                            WUGCT   Water User Groups Core Team
(progressive female farmer)
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim
Sector Managers: M. Baxter and R. All
Team Leader/Task Team Leaders: Ashok K. Seth/J. A. Perumalpillai-Essex &
M. Balasubramanian



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ..................                             .........................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................2
B. Strategic Context ...........................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...........................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................3
C. Project Description Summary ........................                                         ,         .6
1. Project components ..................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ........................7
3. Benefits and target population                                             .7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......... .....................................7
D. Project Rationale ...........................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejecition .................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies .....................................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .........................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .......................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................. 10
E. Summary Project Analyses ..........................................................                                   10
1. Economic ....................................................                                             10
2. Financial .........................                                                                         11
3. Technical .........................                                                                        12
4. Institutional ......................... 13
5. Social .........................                                                                           13
6. Environmental assessment .........................                                                         14
7. Participatory approach .........................                                                           14
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                    15
1. Sustainability ...................                                                                         15
2. Critical risks ...................                                                                         15



3. Possible controversial aspects ......................           16
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                          16
H. Readiness for Implementation        ........................ 18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies       ........................ 18
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Project Description
Attachment I  Social Assessment
Attachment 2  NGO Selection Criteria
Attachment 3  Use of "Pressmud" for Reclamation of sodic Soils
Attachment 4  Main Drain Remodeling Plan
Attachment 5  Farm to Market Roads
Attachment 6  Road Land Acquisition MOU
Attachment 7  Training Plan
Attachment 8  Summary of Priority Topics for Adaptive Research
Attachment 9  Environmental Management Plan
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Annex 6.  Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A l.    Consultant and Training Selection Arrangements
Table AI (a)   Procurement Plan for Consultancies
Table AI (b)   Procurement Plan for Training
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Map No. IBRD 29956



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATIDN II PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
Date: November 3, 1998                            Team Leader/Task. Team Leaders: Ashok K. Seth/
J. A. Perumalpilliai-Essex & M. Balasubramanian
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                    Sector Managers: Michael Baxter & Ridwan Ali
Project ID: IN-PE-50646  Sector: Rural Development  Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Credit      Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan   [X] Credit    [  Guarantee          [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount SDR 141.7 million (US$194.1 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency  []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard       []  Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan
Source:                                               Local             Foreign             Total
Government of Uttar Pradesh                              44.2                0.6             44.8
IDA                                                      167.8             26.3             194.1
Beneficiaries                                            46.9               0.8              47.7
Total         258.9              27.7            286.6
Borrower: Government of India
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN) and Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  FY99   FY00   FY01   FY02   FY03   FY04   FY05   FY06
Annual 6.3     28.4    40.0    48.5    42.9    21.9    5.7    0.4
Cumulative 6.3     34.7    74.7   123.2   166.1   188.0   193.7  194.1
Project implementation period: 6 years  Expected effectiveness date: April 1[999    Expected closing date: Sept. 2005



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Uttar Pradesh (UP) has about 17 million hectares (ha) under cultivation and accounts for 10 percent of
India's net sown area and 25 percent of the total irrigated area. It produces nearly 20 percent of India's
foodgrains. A major concern in the state is the declining productivity of foodgrains, especially of rice
and wheat. This is mainly due to water-induced land degradation (salinization, sodification, groundwater
depletion) and loss of soil fertility with the sustained removal of nutrients associated with more intensive
cropping and the inappropriate use of heavily subsidized nitrogenous fertilizers. The average annual rate
of growth of crop yields between the periods 1980-90 and 1990-95 has declined, for wheat from 2.4
percent to 1.6 percent and for rice from 5.2 percent to 1.0 percent. Over 1.2 million ha of sodic
wastelands' (10 percent of a total cultivable area in the state and about 17 percent of the salt affected
lands in the country) are in UP.
The main development objective of the project would be to reverse this process through sustainable
reclamation of sodic lands and prevention of further increases in sodicity in selected districts of the State
with the highest concentration of sodic areas. This objective would contribute significantly to poverty
alleviation in these areas.
The key performance indicators to monitor this objective would be: (a) increased crop yields (paddy-3.5
tons/ha; wheat-2.7 tons/ha) and increase in cropping intensity in reclaimed areas (up to 200%); (b)
increased market value of land (4 times); (c) increased household income (up to Rs 12,000) of small and
marginal farmers who constitute about 75 % of the beneficiaries; (d) establishment of an improved
drainage network in the ten districts (which will also improve agricultural production in non-sodic areas);
(e) upgrading 700 Icms farm to market roads; and (f) increased community participation.
B: Strategic Context
,. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No. 17241 -IN;  Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998.
The Bank's overriding objective in India is poverty reduction, and its strategy calls for a strong focus on
state-level interventions. In rural development, the Bank's assistance strategy is based mainly on this
state-level approach. In all cases, investment at the state level will be reform-based, focusing on
institutional change and technical innovation. The focus of investment will be: (a) promotion of
sustainable natural resource management; (b) improvements in the management and effectiveness of
public spending, especially that directed towards the poor; and (c) promotion of greater beneficiary
participation in planning, financing and implementation.
While Uttar Pradesh has initiated a dialogue with the Bank, it does not yet fall into the category of
reforming states. It is a state with widespread poverty, extreme dependence on agriculture and declining
soil fertility. With a population of 151 million, it is the third poorest state in India with a per capita
income of US$200 and a poverty index (head count) of 40 percent (42 percent in the rural areas)
compared to an average for the country of 35 percent. More than 80 percent of the people in the state live
in the rural areas and 75 percent are dependent on agriculture for their livelihood.
' Sodic soils are salt affected lands dominated by the electro-chemical bonding of sodium on to clay. This results
in the dispersal of the finer soil particle, impedance of water and air movement and creation of highly alkaline
conditions which makes them unsuitable for crop cultivation.



Page 3
UP is a state with a good record of implementing development projects, and it is beginning a process of
institutional reform and coordinated planning for rural infrastructure development under the Uttar
Pradesh Diversified Agricultural Support Project (UPDASP) (Cr.3106/Ln.4365). Furthermore, the record
of the state in approaching the problem of land degradation, especially with respect to sodic lands, is
extremely encouraging. Though the problem is massive, a start has been made through the first IDA-
financed pilot project, Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (Cr. 2510-IN) which is due to
close on date 03/01. This project has developed successful models for land reclamation with strong
beneficiary participation in some of the poorest regions of the State. The project would continue this
successful intervention and help consolidate efforts, not only to reclaim degraded land, but also to ensure
more sustainable management of natural resources with strengthened beneficiary participation. The
project would also coordinate research and extension activities with the UPDASP project and the
National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) (Cr.3048/Ln.4296) especially through research
addressing problems associated with sustainability of rice-wheat production systems.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key sector issues remain to be addressed by the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP). Some of these
are: (a) distortions in input and output prices resulting in misallocation of resources; (b) crowding out of
private initiative through heavy involvement of the public sector in marketing (especially in foodgrains);
and (c) poor access to institutional credit by the rural poor. As yet there is no clear strategy to deal with
these issues, and UP is not yet one of those states where there is an agreed program of fiscal reform. The
Bank is currently carrying out a state fiscal study.
Nevertheless as noted above, UP has made good progress in certain areas, especially in developing a
coherent strategy for land reclamation. There has also been encouraging progress (to be supported under
UPDASP) towards strengthening research and extension links between state and national institutions and
towards participatory approaches to development as demonstrated in the ongoing pilot project and the UP
Rural Water Supply Project (Ln. 4056).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main sector specific issues to be addressed are:
Institutional Development:
Public sector institutions in agriculture and rural development are generally over staffed and poorly
managed and staff lack motivation and training to perform effectively. The project would help to
strengthen the main executing agency, Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN), to move it
towards being a center of excellence, and it would aim to improve the management of Irrigation
Department and other line departments of GOUP. Local government and community-based
organizations would also be further strengthened.
The experience of the pilot project has shown that an ineffective main drain network, together with
inadequate density of link drains and insufficient attention to on-farm drainage needs, are major
contributors to the spread of sodicity in the state. Under the on-going project, on-farm drainage and
link drains have been developed as part of the reclamation process and beneficiaries and water user
groups are responsible for their operations and maintenance (O&M). The experience in the pilot
project has been fully satisfactory. The major issue has been the O&M of the main drain network,
which is the responsibility of the Irrigation Department (ID). The cooperation of the ID has been
lacking in the past and is paramount for implementation of the main drain component of the project.
An organizational framework and a financing plan have been developed to ensure that the remodeling



Page 4
and maintenance of the drainage network is carried out effectively in the ten districts (the same
districts as in the on-going IDA project) of the project. The ID has tried to correct the situation by
creating seven dedicated divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer (senior staff), to undertake
the drainage work in the ten districts of the project. A project management cell at ID headquarters
would be established to coordinate these activities. Training programs in participatory management
have also been included for the irrigation engineers to assist them in devolving responsibility to
communities (Annex 2).
The project also envisages the strengthening of local govemment bodies in the ten districts, the Gram
Panchayats (village level) and the Zilla Parishad (district level) staff. The project would support the
training of officials in administration and finance. The Panchayati Raj secretariat in the state capital,
Lucknow, would be strengthened to provide administrative support to local government bodies.
A significant impact of the pilot project has been the establishment of community-based
organizations composed of beneficiaries. The intensive beneficiary involvement in project activities
from inception is an essential feature for sustainability of benefits. These groups would be further
empowered under the proposed project (Section E5).
The Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC - responsible for the identification of the sodic sites
and environmental monitoring) played a pivotal role in the pilot project and would be further
strengthened with equipment and training. Equipment will be purchased under the project to upgrade
RSAC capacity for environmental monitoring and site identification.
Technical:
To ensure sustainability and efficient use of scarce resources, research on cost effective technology
would be carried out. Results of the pilot soil and water management sub-project currently being
implemented could be incorporated during project implementation.
The objectives of the soil and water management sub-project are: (a) to develop appropriate land and
water management techniques with farmer participation; (b) to sustain agricultural productivity on
reclaimed lands; and (c) to prevent build-up of sodicity in non-sodic areas. The pilot sub-project is
being executed in the Pratapgarh District and covers the irrigated area commanded by two minors
(Rajapur and Sarseedih) from the Nagapur distributary. The sub-project was initiated a year ago and
conclusive findings are not yet available. However, as the findings are made available, results would
be replicated along minors of the Nagapur distributary and the Jaunpur branch canal system. The
major issue that has emerged so far is lack of inter-agency coordination. There are a number of
agencies involved in the sub-project: ID, UPBSN, Groundwater Department, Agriculture
Department, Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI), Horticulture Department and Minor
Irrigation Department. Improved coordinating mechanisms are being piloted.
Research and extension:
The project includes support for additional research on improving cost effectiveness and efficiency of
land reclamation. Research priorities would include the understanding between leaching of salt and
gypsum requirements; use of salt tolerant crops; impact of using green manure as a first crop in
reclamation; use of saline water for irrigation; and post-reclamation management of lands. Funds for
the research would be through a Competitive Agricultural Research Fund (CARF) accessible to both
the private sector and national institutes. An advisory committee of national and international
scientists would be formed to evaluate proposals and to provide oversight on the quality, direction,
and relevance of the research. Long-term linkages with internationally renowned scientists and
universities for collaboration in sodic lands reclamation would be established.
Technology dissemination would address a fundamental constraint to improved production practices.



Page 5
The main objective would be to establish a decentralized community-based demand -driven system in
the project districts. It would build on the successes of the pilot project in developing grass root
organizations and their participation in supporting technology dissemination activities. The project
would support a training program for farming communities as well as staff of the Department of
Agriculture. Attention would be given to strengthen the technology base and transfer mechanisms
through stronger linkages between research and extension services i(i.e. agriculture, horticulture, and
animal husbandry).
Ownership and Sustainability:
The sustainability of public sector financing the land reclamation program has been reviewed, given
the size of the problem in the state and the clear resource constraints. Two complementary
approaches have been considered. One is to encourage credit institutions to provide resources to
organized farmer groups. The National Agriculture and Rural Development Bank (NABARD) is
currently providing refinancing to participating banks for land reclamation. However, participating
banks have considered investments in this area as a risky proposition due to the mixed success of past
reclamation programs and the poverty of their potential clients. Participating banks, however, are
willing to provide credit to groups for this activity, if it can be demonstrated that the groups are
sustainable. In this context a pilot credit action research project has been developed by the executing
agency UPBSN and participating banks in two districts. The objectives are: (a) to evaluate the
sustainability of self-help groups (SHGs) in areas where UPBSN has withdrawn; (b) to evaluate the
demonstration (spill-over) effects of sodic area SHGs on neighboring non-sodic areas ; (c) to identify
key factors for cohesiveness of SHGs; and (d) to evaluate the effectiveness of formal credit
institutions taking a pro-active role in the delivery of credit services to SHGs. Results of the research
study would be incorporated during implementation.
An alternative approach is for UPBSN (a registered corporation) to diversify and become a "Center
of Excellence" in natural resources management providing both technical and credit support to small
farmer groups. A corporate study for UPBSN was commissioned during project preparation and a
strategy has been developed. The basic strategy is for UPBSN to employ key experts in the field and
to establish a 'corpus fund.' The recommendation of the study would be discussed with the Board of
UPBSN and adopted in the first year of project implementation.
Social:
The proposed project would build on the experience of the pilot project, where water user groups
(WUGs), consisting of 10-15 farmers, one of whom owns a pump set and shares water with others
for use in a 4-5 ha command area. Members of all WUGs are also part of the village Site
Implementation Committee (SIC), (to address inter-WUG issues). Leaders of the WUGs form a Core
Team to function as an executive organ of the SIC. Progressive farmers, are identified to function as
mitra kisan (MK; male) and mahila mitra kisan (MMK; female) as change agents/animators to
facilitate an interface between project activities and farm families. In addition women are mobilized
to form self-help groups to support farm households with supplementary savings and income. Design
of the project includes strengthening relationships between the beneficiaries and local government
and ensuring an inclusive role for women in reclamation activities..
Environmental:
Data obtained in the past three years in the pilot project indicate that there has not been any adverse
impact on the water and soil quality. Furthermore, it has had a positive impact on biodiversity in the
reclaimed areas. Since the impact on biodiversity is not expected to be adverse in the future, it has
been decided not to continue regular monitoring of this aspect. However, an evaluation of



Page 6
biodiversity would be carried out in the project area in the last year of implementation. As the project
is on a much larger scale, an environmental management plan has been developed to continue
monitoring soil and water quality.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                        Category    Indicative   % of    Bank-          % of
Costs     Total  financing     Bank-
(US$M)             (US$M)    financing
Land Reclamation and On-Farm development: For an    Physical        156.4      54       86.2     45
area of about 150,000 ha: (a) formation of WUGs; (b)
planning, design, construction and /or improvement of
drainage network (link and field drains); (c) provision
of shallow tubewells and pumpsets to leach salts and to
support crop growth; (d) on-farm development
consisting of land leveling and bunding; (e) application
of chemical/organic amendments to the soil and (f)
input support for crop production.
Main Drain Remodeling and Maintenance: Remodeling   Physical         38.2      13       29.5         15
of 5,750 km of drains mostly comprising of less than 5
cumecs capacity. Maintenance of the drains to be carried
out initially by ID and then to be transferred to
communities.
Technology Dissemination system: Establishment of a    Institution    8.5       3       7.9          4
demand driven technology dissemination system     building
through (a) support for social capital enhancement
through mobilization and participation of farming
communities; (b) changes in institutional and
operational arrangements at the district and block level
through establishment of multidisciplinary teams of
specialists drawn from research and extension; (c)
preparation of strategic research and extension plans
(SREP) for each district using participatory approaches;
and (d) development implementation of a program of
human capital development of public functionaries of
other cooperating agencies including NGOs and farming
communities; and (e) dissemination of information on
effective land and water management practices with
focus on drainage.
Upgrading Farm to Market roads: Upgrading 700 km  Physical           37.2      13       29.2         15
of roads connecting 235 villages to the highwayIdistrict
road network.
Human Resource Development and Institutional      Institution        13.7    5          12.0         6
Capacity Building: Training of staff in various line  building
departments and capital investment necessary for
executing services in support of project activities. This
includes strengthening of local government bodies.
Adaptive Research: Continuation of research activities   Support      1.5       I       1.5
under the pilot project and key research to achieve  services
efficiency and cost effectiveness in reclamation. This
will be achieved by the establishment of a Competitive
Agricultural Research Fund (CARF) and establishment
of linkages with international and national scientists and
institutions.
Project Management: Including strengthening of    Support            31.1      It       27.8         14
UPBSN, carrying of Environmental Management Plan    services
and overall Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project.
Total    286.6      100      194.1        100



Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The major areas for reforms to ensure sustainability of project investments have already been discussed in
Section B3. An institutional framework for the remodeling and maintenance of the main drains has been
established. The maintenance plan, as agreed with the GOUP, indicates budgetary allocation every year
for the ten districts. GOUP confirmed during negotiations that funding would be provided to ID from
GOUP's budgetary allocation and from centrally sponsored schemes, such as the Employment Assurance
Scheme. GOUP has also confirmed that the responsibility for financing and maintaining the drains,
would be devolved to local governments when they are suitably strengthened. Strengthening of local
governments in the ten districts has been included as part of project activities. An operational and
financing plan has been obtained from GOUP and would be closely monitored.
A maintenance plan for the rural roads has been formulated. A "Road Fund" hias been established that
would be financed from a fuel tax and from the state budget. The fund would be to maintain all classes of
roads including rural roads. Expected revenue from the fuel tax is Rs. 2 billion per annum. The Public
Works Department (PWD) would be responsible for operating the Fund and maintaining the roads.
Othier state and centrally sponsored schemes for sodic lands reclamation would adopt similar community
participationi adopted under the project. The State Government has issued the relevant guidelines. The
Cenitral Government's guidelines are being developed. Their implementation would be monitored by
GOUP.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would cover an area of 150,000 ha. The total number of beneficiaries would be about
375,000 farn families in ten districts of UP. Seventy-five percent of this target population, composed of
small and marginal farmers, live below subsistence level. The average holding size is 0.4 ha (an
economnic land holding is considered to be about 1-1.5 ha). Opportunities for employment within the
state are limited. Presently, there is a large seasonal migration of men to other states (e.g., Punjab and
Haryana) for employment. The major benefit of this reclamation program is the substantial increase in
income in the first year. This income would provide for stable livelihoods, leading towards better family
life and improvements in health and education. The formation of water user groups and women's self-
hielp groups under the project would result in empowerment of the most vulnerable population in the rural
sector, namely the poor and women.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
There would be little deviation from the institutional and implementation arrangements that have been
successfully tested in the pilot project. The main implementing agency for the project would be the Uttar
Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN), a registered corporation with the GOUP. UPBSN would be
responsible for the coordination and implementation of all activities pertaining to the project. Other
GOUP line departments would be implementing parts of the project. These departments include
Agriculture, Irrigation, Public Works, Horticulture, Minor Irrigation, and Panchayati Raj. The Agriculture
Production Commissioner (APC) would be the Chairman of the UPBSN Board. The Board would consist
of representatives from key GOUP line departments, Uttar Pradesh Council for Agricultural Research
(UPCAR) and NGOs. The Board would meet quarterly.
Institutions such as the Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC) and UPCAR would also be
involved in the project. RSAC would be responsible for identification of sodic areas to be reclaimed and
for environmental monitoring. UPCAR would coordinate implementation of the adaptive research
program, which would have close links with relevant programs being supported at the national level



Page 8
through NATP. NGOs would participate as motivators for group formation, an essential ingredient for
the successful implementation and sustainability of the project. Independent agencies/consultants would
be contracted to monitor project implementation progress and carry out impact evaluations of the project.
Guidance and coordination of project activities would be carried out at the three levels: state, district and
reclamation site. At the state level the State Steering Committee would provide policy guidance and
would meet on a need basis. It would be chaired by the Chief Secretary of GOUP or his nominee and
would include the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC), Representative of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Government of India, Secretaries of Finance, Agriculture, Irrigation, Environment, Rural
Development, Science and Technology, Panchayati Raj, PWD, Institutional Finance, the Director of
RSAC, and the Director General of UPCAR.
At the district level, a District Implementation Committee would meet every quarter. It would be chaired
by the District Magistrate and would include a member of Zilla Parishad, the Chief Development Officer,
the Deputy Director Extension, the District Agriculture Officer, the District Horticultural Officer, the
Assistant Engineer Minor Irrigation, the Executing Engineer (Drainage), the Project Manager UPBSN,
the District Development Manager, NABARD, the District Soil Conservation officer, and representatives
of NGOs and farmers' organizations.
At the project site a Site Implementation Committee (SIC) would include all farmers participating in
reclamation and would be formed by UPBSN and NGOs. Leaders of the WUGs form a core team to
function as an executive arm of the SIC. SIC members would include: the Assistant Manager, UPBSN, a
representative of the Gram Panchayat, a representative of the participating local NGOs, a representative
MK and MMK, village functionaries of rural development, health, irrigation, PWD and others (revenue,
farmer's cooperatives etc.). The SIC would provide the forum for regular interaction between the
UPBSN staff, NGOs and beneficiaries to review detailed implementation plans.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
In regard to the efforts being made in UP to reverse land degradation, the Bank has two strategic options:
(a) to pull out following the current successful pilot project, in the hope that the technical and
organizational lessons learned from it will be self-sustaining and will be adopted on a wider scale; or (b)
to continue with the program and to consolidate the positive start to what is a very long-term program. In
proposing the present project, the Bank has opted for the latter, with the clear intention of building on the
success already registered. The pilot project has demonstrated a successful approach to sodic land
reclamation, technically, financially and institutionally, which could be applied on a much wider scale
throughout the state. The State Government has issued the relevant guidelines. The Central Government's
guidelines are being developed. These programs in Uttar Pradesh are not large and at present amount to
about US$3 million per annum.
The technology already in place has been proven at national/international institutes and in the field. It
involves delineation of affected areas, improvement of drainage, treatment of affected land with gypsum,
flushing with good quality groundwater from tubewells, and maintaining groundcover by continuous and
intensive cropping. The technology has been found to be acceptable with slight modifications to the
amount of gypsum being applied and with using organic matter as a substitute for chemical amendments.
Continued efforts in adaptive research are needed to improve the effectiveness of the reclamation
technology and to examine altemative production systems to those being promoted in the pilot project
(Refer to Section E3).



Page 9
Organizationally, the pilot project provides for flexibility and extensive beneficiary and NGO
participation. This was not only successfully achieved but considerably expanded from design targets,
especially the role played by the Site Implementation Committees (SICs) in land reclamation and
monitoring.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Land Reclamation
IDA financed                   Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands         S                 S
Reclamation (Cr. 251 0-IN,
May 1993)
Other development agencies
European Union                 Alkaline Land Reclamation        HS                HS
Program (3 districts) (1994)
Govt. of Netherlands (proposed)  Pilot Project for Usar
Reclamation in Uttar Pradesh
(2 district)              _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The success of the pilot project is mainly due to: (a) flexibility in project design; (b) commitment of
UPBSN management and staff to succeed; (c) strong beneficiary participation supported by effective use
of NGOs to motivate beneficiaries to organize themselves to participate in the planning and
implementation of the program; and (d) a systematic approach to the full reclamation package
(motivation of beneficiaries; beneficiary involvement in planning, design, and construction of link and
field drains; on-farm development, application of chemical amenclments and crop production). As a
registered corporation, the executing agency, UPBSN, has flexibility and authority to carry out its
activities; most of the staff are on contract and are fully accountable for their performance; and there is
complete transparency in its functioning.
To further strengthen the project, based on lessons learned from the experience of the pilot project, the
following elements are to be included in the design: (a) strengthening the supporting environment,
including local government, NGOs and the community; (b) focus on training of extension staff and
farmers; (c) upgrading rural roads to facilitate input supply and marketing; (d) remodeling/maintenance
of the main drainage network by the Irrigation Department; the project is introducing sustainable
financing of maintenance (with increasing beneficiary participation) and skills enhancement of ID staff
involved with the project; and (e) intensification of adaptive research activities and identification of
alternative low-cost and effective technology.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project has exceptional support from the state government. GOUP has approved a plan for the
maintenance of the main drains and roads reflecting its commitment to ensure the long-term sustainability
of the proposed investments. Following a State Government order, personnel involved in the design
phase of the project cannot be transferred out or reassigned for the duration of the project without the
express written approval of a committee (already formed) headed by the Chief Secretary.



Page 10
UPBSN has been responsible for preparation of a number of components of the project. Action was
taken to complete the baseline survey and keen interest was taken in the corporate study to develop
UPBSN as a "Center of Excellence" in natural resources management. Baseline data on villages and
households for the proposed project has already been collected by UPBSN. The demonstration effect of
the present project is substantial; when UPBSN approaches a new sodic affected area, it now finds it
relatively easy to form beneficiary groups. Commitment to the project is also reflected by the fact that
GOUP has made it a requirement that other donors (EEC and Netherlands) follow a similar technical and
organizational approach. GOUP has also indicated that it is considering transferring all sodic reclamation
programs to be implemented to UPBSN.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been providing continuous advice in the pilot phase which it sees as a catalyst in
introducing participatory approaches at a time when these were not readily accepted. A systematic
approach to land reclamation was introduced, with environmental monitoring, to ensure that there has not
been negative impact on soil and water quality. This support needs to continue, to further strengthen and
deepen commitment to these approaches. This participatory approach has been demonstrated to have a
much greater chance of sustainability than the traditional top-down approach. The Government is keen
that the Bank should stay involved so that the existing arrangements can take root and the model can be
strengthened (technically and institutionally) and replicated throughout the state. The Bank has assisted
in accessing advice on international experiences and identifying suitable consultants for special studies
(for example, in looking at reclamation in the wider context of land and water management, especially as
it relates to drainage, where India has limited experience).
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[ X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=Rs. 1,192 million; ERR=14.8%
Project intervention on reclaiming 150,000 hectares of sodic lands would result in incremental foodgrain
production. Incremental income per beneficiary household would increase by about Rs. 7,400 per
annum and incremental foodgrain production would be nearly 664,000 tons per annum equivalent to
about Rs. 1,300 million in value. Production of horticulture crops (on 1 0 percent of reclaimed sodic
lands) is expected to produce about 175,000 tons of fruit annually. Additionally the remodeling of drains
is expected to result in incremental production outside direct sodic lands, as improved drainage would
reduce the potential for build-up of sodicity, as well as the extent and duration of periodic flooding in the
area. Additional agricultural production outside the direct project area is expected to amount to 140,000
tons. The upgrading of rural roads would also result in a reduction of transport costs for both inputs and
outputs and stimulate economic development in the area.
The economic rate of return is calculated at 14.8 percent for the project. Sensitivity analysis indicates
that with a decrease in benefits and an increase in costs, the project would be viable, except when benefits
decline by 20 percent (when the ERR declines to 11.4 percent, below the 12 percent opportunity cost of
capital). Implementation delays would not adversely affect the rate of return on the project. In the
unlikely event that project benefits are lagged by one year, the ERR is 13 percent.
The net present value of land reclamation by class of land ranges from Rs. 15,000 - Rs. 20,800. The
financial rate of return is about 60 per cent for water user groups producing grains and more than 25 per
cent for those groups producing horticultural crops.
The immediate benefits of reclamation are well established, but to ensure the sustainability of these
benefits reclaimed lands must continue to be cropped and drains have to be maintained. Commitments



Page 11
were obtained from GOUP and ID to ensure maintenance of drains under the project. A maintenance
plan for the drains has been developed for close monitoring during project supervision. The project's
credit action research study would identify constraints to beneficiaries accessing short term credit for
agricultural production and identify key areas where credit institutions should focus to enable credit
availability for vulnerable groups, such as small and marginal farmners. Results of the credit study would
be incorporated during implementation. The technology dissemination component would ensure that an
extension system is in place for beneficiaries to have access to the latest cost effective technology
packages.
The subsidy to individual farm households would amount to about 40 - 65 percent of total costs of
reclamation. The subsidies are well targetkd as over 75 percent would go to small and marginal farmers
living below the poverty line. There has been a decline in the subsidy element in real terms and farmers'
contributions have increased. Th;e subsidy is based on the degree oi deterioration of land and not on the
ability of the beneficiaries to pay. For the technology to be effective, contiguous patches of sodic land
(average technically feasible plot = 10 ha) have to be reclaimed. Hence, in this case there may be some
"relatively" well-off farmers also gaining from the subsidy.
Fiscal impact:
Size and Trends in Agricultural Expenditures: Agriculture and allied activities (defined in government
budgets as crop husbandry, soil and water conservation, animal husbandry, dairy development, fisheries,
agricultural research, education, and sericulture) account for about 5 percent of GOUP's total public
expenditures, with no clear upward or downward trend in this share since 1989/90.
Composition of Public Spending for Agriculture. As a share of agricultural SDP however, the level of
public spending for agriculture and rural development has been declining since the early 90s. This fall
in public spending has not been accompanied by an improved composition of expenditures. Irrigation
and power subsidies have increased their share in total agricultural expenditures from 30 percent to 47
percent between 1985/86 and 1996/97, squeezing growth enhancing expenditures from 41 percent to 24
percent during the same period. In particular, growth enhancing capital expenditures, mostly new
irrigation expenditures have come down from 23 percent in 1986/87 to 6 percent in 1996/97. This
however, may represent a shift from less efficient canal irrigation to more efficient irrigation investments
(private tube wells). Presently GOUP's budget for agriculture and allied activities is Rs. 13.6 billion
(current expenditure,-Rs. 10.4 billion and capital expenditure,-Rs. :3.2 billion excluding subsidies and
safety nets) . Currently total expenditure, with subsidies, in the sector is Rs. 38 billion.
Project Impact on the Budget: GOUP's counterpart contribution during the project period would range
from Rs. 228 million in Year I to Rs. 148 million in Year 6 of the project. GOUP's peak contributions
would be Rs. 559 million and Rs. 599 million in years 3 and 4 respectively (which are the years of peak
reclamation activities). The burden on GOUP's budget would be reduced within the six year period of
project implementation as GOUP implements policies to increase cost recovery from beneficiaries
especially for the maintenance of rural roads and main drains. Addiitionally, the Road Fund would also
reduce the burden on GOUP budget. It is expected that the results of the credit study would result in
participating banks improving credit delivery and beneficiaries would be able to finance a larger part of
the reclamation costs thus reducing dependence on the public sector.
2. Financial (see Annex 6)
Project Financial Management System (FMS): Financial management arrangements for the project are
detailed in Annex 6 and are summarized below. A Financial Management Manual which documents the
operation of the project FMS has been prepared. The Manual covers the following aspects: (i) flow of
funds; (ii) financial and accounting policies; (iii) accounting systenn and internal control mechanisms;
(iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial reporting (including formats of financial management reports);



Page 12
(vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management
functions. Key actions which are in process, and which need to be completed are: (i) completion of
development of the financial management system, including finalization and adoption of the Financial
Management Manual, and computerization of the FMS. This is expected to be completed by December
31, 1998; and would be a condition of Effectiveness of the Credit; (ii) appointment of a firm of Chartered
Accountants as auditors for the project. This is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999; and
(iii) recruitment by UPBSN of two key financial professionals viz., Financial Controller and Financial
Officer (expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and March 31, 1999 respectively). Disbursements
from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system (reimbursements with full
documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct payments) and would be
converted to the new procedures (i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs) after the two key
professional financial staff have been appointed and the FMS is operating satisfactory. The target date
for this conversion is April 1, 2000 (I year after expected project start date).
3. Teclhnical (see Annex 2):
The most appropriate and tested technology is being adopted for the project. The technology is based on
extensive research by national and international institutions. The reclamation process consists of
providing water (through surface and/or groundwater irrigation systems) for leaching purposes and on-
farm development works (i.e. field leveling and bunding, development of drainage system and application
of chemical amendments). The chemical amendment utilized is gypsum- the most commonly
recommended inorganic amendment which is available in India. Based on the results from the pilot
project the amount of gypsum applied would be reduced from 15 tons/ha to 10-12 tons/ha. The gypsum
requirement method used to determine the dosage is not exact and improvements are being made in the
project. New technological equipment would be used to identify the level of sodicity on soils in the same
plots so that the amount of amendments used may be more precisely determined. To further reduce costs
pressmud2 would be used as a substitute for gypsum on a pilot basis on 500 halyear through the project
period.
To further refine technology, adaptive research would be carried out on the effect of flushing out sodium
salts on gypsum requirements, use of highly salt tolerant crops to reduce gypsum requirement for
reclamation, effect of green manure as a first crop in reclamation, post reclamation management of
reclaimed lands, computer simulation of salt water balance studies and use of low cost technologies such
as pressmud.
Appropriate methods have been developed in the pilot project for the construction and maintenance of
field and link drains which have been carried out by the beneficiaries. Link drains would be completed
prior to the leaching process. Remodeling of the main drains would be carried out by the ID with
dedicated divisions and coordinated by a project management cell at headquarters - this is expected to
facilitate and expedite project implementation. Remodeling of the main drains would be substantially
completed to ensure free flow of the effluent from the leaching process prior to land reclamation in
phasing project activities.
As mentioned in Section B3, the results of the land and water management pilot sub-project would be
incorporated as they become available. Efficient field management is expected to result in increased
yields.
2 Pressmud is a by-product of sugar cane processing. The use of pressmud can reduce costs of reclamation, enrich
soils with organic matter and reduce sodicity in the long-term.



Page 13
4. Institutional:
UPBSN , the main executing agency has been substantially strengthened and a systematic approach to
sodic land reclamation is in place under the pilot project. However, due to the expansion of the area to be
covered, staff would be recruited on a contractual basis and equipment and vehicles provided under the
project for their use. To facilitate communications, computer systems would be upgraded. Similarly,
RSAC would also be provided with upgraded equipment to assist with site selection and for
environmental monitoring.
A corporate study has been prepared. The report has indicated that the long-term goal of UPBSN should
be to develop as a "Center of Excellence in Natural Resource Management". To achieve this,
organizational changes would be required and a "Corpus Fund" established for carrying out reclamation
activities in the future. It has been proposed that the seed money for the corpus fund would be provided
by the central and state govemments and the private sector. The UPBSN Board would discuss the report
and agreed recommendations adopted in the first year of project implementation. The establishment of
the fund would reduce UPBSN's dependency on GOUP funds.
5. Social (see Anne-x 2, Attachment 1):
There are no issues with respect to indigenous people or resettlement in the project. Social issues relating
to upgrading rural roads and involvement of beneficiaries in project activities are being addressed.
Upgrading of rural roads may require some land for culverts or proper alignment. Unless the lands are
offered voluntarily the roads will not be upgraded. The mechanism for ensuring that land is voluntarily
provided is similar to that adopted in UPDASP, i.e., a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) would be
signed by the occupant of such land and the district/village level administrator prior to upgrading the
road. An independent agency would be employed to monitor this to ensure transparency of the process
and absence of undue pressure on the beneficiaries.
Major social issues have been identified and addressed during the pilot project. Results have been
satisfactory. These relate to 'inclusion' (role for and participation by all sub-groups), decentralized
decision making (village level) accountability (financial, physical and operational), and sustainability
(mechanism to ensure operation and maintenance of the assets created and access to information, market
goods and services). A social assessment and baseline studies condlucted have identified the need to
further strengthen the village level institutions and establish effective linkages between various groups.
Accordingly the project includes the following:
Mainstreaming the SIC: A Government Order establishing Site Implementation Committees (SICs) as
sub-committees of the Gram Panchayats (village level) has been issued. The linkages with the Panchayat
system are crucial for: (a) undertaking some of the key project activities (drainage and roads) which
include households and land of indirect beneficiaries; (b) sustainablility of project activities and benefits
to access other resources; and (c) establishing an institutional umbrella over informal community
organizations being created under the project since Panchayats have gained legitimacy under the
Constitutional (73rd) Amendment Act.
Inclusion, accountability and sustainability: SIC will comprise two members (one male and another
female) from every sodic land owner/operator household. The core team will be broad-based, and will
consist of Water User Group (WUG) leaders, mitra kisans mahila mitra kisans and some key indirect
beneficiaries (like school teachers, other influential persons, chairpersons of WSHGs). To ensure
ownership by all sub-groups and accountability, the beneficiaries would prepare a PRA-based Site
Implementation Plan (SIP) for each village. Collective initiative for individual and common good would
receive particular attention in this plan. The SIP would be an attachment to an MOU signed by the SIC,
NGO and UPBSN. This plan would become the "reclamation agreement" and would be for monitoring
implementation activities by the beneficiaries and for evaluation in the future.



Page 14
Gender: To address women's needs and empowerment, the project would: (a) ensure women as co-title
holders of allotted lands; (b) establish inclusive institutions so as to make explicit the role of women in
reclamation; and (c) ensure convergence with other on-going central and state sponsored programs such
as GOI's literacy campaign, education, health care, sanitation etc. Special attention would be given to
building the capacity of MMKs which would help integrate women as strong partners in reclamation
activities.
Participatory Management review: The project would finance a review of the participatory management
aspects annually. The audit would be formulated taking into consideration the latest conceptual
developments in social audit.
6. Environmentalassessment: EnvironmentalCategoryl 1 A   IXI B   I C (see Annex 2, Attachment
9).
An environmental analysis carried out during preparation to determine the impact of land reclamation on
soil, water and biodiversity. Three years' data collected during the pilot phase were evaluated. The
evaluation suggests that soil quality at the root zones are improving and there has been no negative
impact on surface and groundwater quality so far. The data on biodiversity indicate a strong positive
impact, with soil organic matter improving, an increase in the insect eating bird population, and an
increased abundance of fauna.
It has been decided that, as the impact of reclamation on biodiversity is substantial and not expected to
reverse with the extension of the area to be reclaimed, regular monitoring would not be required.
However, an evaluation would be made at the end of the project implementation period to identify the
species of flora and fauna that have been found in the reclaimed areas.
However, with respect to soil and water quality, though there has been no adverse impact, long-term
monitoring is required to establish and confirm the data so far obtained. In the soil and water quality
analyses carried out in the past, there has been some issues with respect to consistency of data, collection
of data and methods used to analyze data. Hence, an Environmental Management Plan has been agreed
with RSAC, the responsible nodal agency, to ensure improved data collection and analytical methods.
7. Participatory approach:
Active participation of beneficiaries has been the key to the success of the pilot project. The project
would further deepen this approach and extend it to the newer areas.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary/direct stakeholders/beneficiaries include marginal, small landholders of sodic land ; and women
from participating families. Some of these households are currently landless and would acquire land due
to project interventions. Direct beneficiaries would also include families allotted land in the mid-1970s
who would obtain de facto possession of land as a result of project intervention. The residual village
population, not owning sodic lands, would comprise indirect beneficiaries, and benefit from drainage
improvement and road upgrading. Secondary beneficiaries would include village-based groups such as
Panchayats, NGOs, non-governmental individuals, UPBSN, credit institutions, keg line departments (
agriculture, horticulture, irrigation, PWD) and research institutions. A distinct sub-set of the secondary
stakeholders would be kisan sahayaks (agriculture extension worker) and lekhpal (revenue officials
responsible for land demarcation and allotment).
Participation of primary stakeholders would be through empowerment, involving investments in building
institutional as well as individual capacities and self management by stakeholders during and after
implementation. The project would invest in building the capacity of the social intermediaries (NGOs)
and UPBSN would collaborate in empowering the stakeholders. NGOs would evolve participatory
techniques depending on the situation and need to ensure participation by all sub-groups in all stages.



Page 15
These would include: (a) pre-planning ( pre-reclamation year) involving identification of sodic lands,
mapping of the potential beneficiaries, and demand assessment and expression; (b) planning-formation of
SICs, WUGs, WSHGs, MKs, MMKs and preparation of site implernentation plans; (c) implementation;
(d) consolidation/withdrawal; and (e) post project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
[X] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
Other stakeholders include line departments such as power, agro-industries, publicity, women and
children, district administration ( both political and executive), contractual partners and donor agencies.
Participation would be through collaboration /consultation involving shared decision making in meetings
and soliciting views on project implementation. Among these the district administration would play a
significant role especially in effecting the MOUs for the farm to market roads component.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A critical area for the sustainability of project benefits is to ensure that the main drains are remodeled and
adequately maintained. Due to the close linkage between effectiveness of the drainage system and
building of alkalinity/salinity of land, efficiency of the main drains are critical for the full benefits of the
investmenit to be sustained.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in tte fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk             Risk Rating                      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to
Objective"
Delay in remodeling of main      M        Organizational changes within ID have been made to expedite work in the
drains: The Irrigation Dept.              project. ID has created seven dedicated divisions for the ten districts and a
(ID) is the line Department               project management cell at headquarters to coordinate the activities.
responsible for construction,             Incentives for the engineers have been provided such as training; vehicles to
operation and maintenance of              improve mobility; and computerization so as to facilitate management of
drains. Based on the                      the work. Furthermore land reclamation activities will not commence until
experience of the pilot project,          the main drains have been remodeled in that area. This will also mean that
ID has not been very                      the beneficiaries could also put pressure on ID staff to ensure that the work
supportive and efficient in               is carried out expeditiously.
carrying out the work.
Non-maintenance of drains:        S       The GOUP has provided a comimitment to ensure funding for the drains
In the past lack of resources             from the regular GOUP budget and from centrally sponsored schemes. The
has resulted in the non                   financing and operational plans have been provided for the project period
maintenance of main drains.               and would be monitored during project implementation. In the long-term,
This can lead to substantial              GOUP has provided assurance that it will transfer the responsibilities for
reduction in project benefits.            maintenance to local government bodies - Gram Panchayats and Zilla
Parishads.
Lack of road maintenance:        M        GOUP has established a Road F und for the maintenance of all state roads
Inadequate resources to finance           funded by a fuel tax and state resources. The Public Works Department
the maintenance of rural roads            will be responsible for the maintenance of the roads.
once upgraded.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness:
Development of a satisfactory financial management system (FMS) for the project, comprising
preparation and adoption of a Financial Management Manual, and development and installation of a
computerized FMS.
Project Management Requirements:
I .   Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that RSAC, UPCAR and line departments of Uttar Pradesh, including
without limitation the Agriculture Department, the Irrigation Department, the Panchayat Department and
the Public Works Department, will, in a timely manner: (a) participate in the implementation of the
Project as necessary; and (b) provide all the necessary assistance to and cooperation with UPBSN in the
implementation of the Project.
2.     Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall ensure that UPBSN, each of the line departments of Uttar
Pradesh that participate in the implementation of the Project and RSAC and UPCAR will: (a) not later
thani April 1, 1999, enter into a memorandum of understanding, acceptable to the Association, setting
forth the activities to be carried out and financial and other implementation arrangements; (b) comply
with the provisions of such memorandum of understanding; and (c) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such memorandum of understanding or any provision thereof without the prior written consent of the
Association.
3.     UPBSN shall: (a) by December 31 of each year, starting in 1999, furnish to the Association for
its review and comments an annual implementation plan for the Project, including training, for the
following year; and (b) thereafter implement each such plan, taking into account the Association's
comments on such plan.
4.     Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall:
a. maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives.
b. for each six-month period, starting with the period ending on December 31, 1999, submit to
the Association for its review and comments, within thirty (30) days of the end of such
pcriod, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six months ending on the last
day of such period and during the entire year ending on the last day of such period;
c. prepare, under termns of reference satisfactory to the Association, and fumish to the Association,
by December 31, 2001 and in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
d. Mid term review will be carried with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date
as the Association shall request



Page 17
5.     Uttar Pradesh shall continue to keep the Agriculture Production Commissioner as the Chairman
of the Board of UPBSN.
6.     UPBSN shall implement the Environmental Management Pl?an in accordance with the objectives,
policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set out therein and shall not take any action
which would prevent or interfere with such implementation
On farm Development and land Reclamation:
7.     UPBSN shall carry out the identification, selection and planning of the reclamation sites under
the Project in accordance with criteria, schedule and procedures agreed with the Association.
8.     UPBSN shall select NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Association.
9.     UPBSN shall: (i) by April 1, 2000, select a suitably qualified agency to undertake an independent
assessment of the participatory management process for NGOs; (ii'> by December 31, 2000, prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to implement recommendations made by such agency; and
(iii) thereafter implement such recommendations in accordance with such action plan.
Main drain remodeling and maintenance
10.    UPBSN shall ensure that the remodeling of the main drains for each site under the Project shall
be substantially completed to ensure the free flow of effluents fromr the leaching process.
II.    Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) not later than three (3) months prior to the beginning of each Fiscal Year,
furnish to the Association an operational plan for the maintenance of the main drains under the Project to
be undertaken during such Fiscal Year, including an estimate of the costs of such maintenance in an
amount satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) thereafter provide to UPBSN in a timely manner the funds
sufficient to cover the costs of such maintenance for such Fiscal Year.
Upgrading Farm to Market Roads Component.
12.    Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall: (i) select and improve the rural roads included under the project
in accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the Association; (ii) maintain such roads
in accordance with the Road Maintenance Policy; (iii) employ, not later than July 1, 1999 and with terms
of reference agreed with the Association, consultants to inspect and verify the technical quality of such
roads after their improvement; (iv) ensure that any land needed for road improvement shall be provided
by the occupant of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of
understanding, acceptable to the Association, between Uttar Pradesh and such occupant; and (v) not
commence improvement of roads in locations where land is needed until such memorandum of
understanding has been concluded.
Adaptive Research Component:
13.   Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall: (i) with the assistance of UPCAR complete approval, not later
than December 31, 1999, of the first phase of the research proposals under the competitive agricultural
research program in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association; and (ii) take all the necessary
measures to ensure that continued funding for the program shall be provided, during the post-Project
period, (a) for completion of the research initiated during the Project period and (b) subject to satisfactory
performance of the program for support of a competitive research funding mechanism.
Technology Dissemination:
14.    UPBSN shall take all the necessary measures to ensure that, not later than December 31, 1999,
extension services activities of the Project in at least one block of two Project districts are contracted to



Page 18
NGOs or private service providers in association with the commodity groups/associations and self help
groups, with technical back-stopping by the district teams and block level staff of the line departments of
Uttar Pradesh, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Financial Management:
15.    UPBSN shall successfully develop and maintain a financial management system for the Project
comprising preparation and adoption of a financial management manual, and development, installation
and operation of a computerized financial management system, satisfactory to the Association.
16.    UPBSN shall employ (i) not later than June 30, 1999, and thereafter maintain as a financial
controller a suitably experienced chartered accountant or cost accountant, and (ii) not later than March
31, 1999, and thereafter maintain, as a financial officer a suitable chartered accountant or cost accountant.
17.   UPBSN shall employ not later than March 31, 1999, and thereafter maintain throughout the
Project implementation period a firm of chartered accountants with terms of reference and qualifications
acceptable to the Association, for auditing the records, accounts sand financial statements of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The development of a financial management system for the Project is substantially advanced and
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998. This would be a Condition of Effectiveness of the
Credit.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader/Task Team Leaders: Ashok K. Seth/J. A. Perumalpillai-Essex
& M. Balasubramanian
4,      Iii'1
Sector Managers: Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Country Directoi;^ Edwin R. Lim



Annex I
Page I of 2
ANNEX 1
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT (6-YEAR PROJECT)
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring &       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
CAS Impact: The reduction  1. Changes in household income and   Reporl:s provided by
of poverty/improvement of    their distribution               GOUP.
welfare.                  2. Quality of life indicators and their   Poverty assessments.
distribution.
CAS Output (Sector        3. Increased contribution of        ReporL provided by   Rural poor significantly
related CAS Goal):            agriculture to economic growth.  GOUF'.             share the benefits from
Improving the composition   4. Sodic programs are consistent with                 agricultural development.
and delivery effectiveness of  Bank-financed project
public spending to alleviate  5. Balance of local & downstream
poverty in Uttar Pradesh.     environmental impacts.
CAS Component/Project    1. Increased household income.       Progress reports by    >  Other ongoing
Impact (Project           2. Increased crop yields.           independent             development program
Development Objective):   3. Increased cropping intensity.    monitoring agencies     in rural areas are
To increase agricultural  4. Beneficial changes in migration  (e.g., lIM).            effectively
productivity and production   patterns.                                               implemented.
in 10 districts of Uttar  5. Adequacy of local funding for main  UPBSN review     >  Other complementary
Pradesh.                      drain O&M channeled through     reports.                Gov.-sponsored
Panchayats.                                             programs
6. Execution of scheduled          Intrusive Bank          implemented.
maintenance of main drains.     missions.           >  Basic rural
7. Reduction of waterlogged and sodic                      infrastructure
land.                                                   provided.
> Marketing facilities
become available.
> Availability of credit
services.
> Availability of
technical services.
Project Outputs:
1. Areas of sodic land    1.1 150,000 ha of treated soils (yr. 1:    I.           1.
made suitable for         20,000 ha, yr. 2: 30,000 ha, yr.3:    >  Reports from  >  Timely allocation of
irrigated agriculture and  35,000 ha, yr. 4:35,000 ha; yr 5:  independent         land.
initiated in cropping.    30,000 ha).              .monitoring                  ' WUGs & SICs
1.2 Production increased on sodic lands  agencies.          formed expeditiously.
(incremental production of paddy of >  Reports provided  >  Land & water
353,700 mt, wheat of 310,500 mt    by RSAC.             management in non-
by yr. 6, horticulture - 175,500  >  Bank review        sodic areas improve.
mt/p.a)                            missions.        >  Smooth inter-
1.3 Increased market value for land.                       departmental
1.4 Improved quality of biodiversity                        coordination.
(presence of indicator species).                    >  Leach water will not
1.5 Soil quality improved (pH/EC)                          contaminate ground
and surface water.
2. Improved drainage      2.1 5700 km of remodeled/rehabilitated  2.              2.
network established.      main drains (yr. 1: 721 km, yr. 2:    >  ID data.    >  Drainage
962 km, yr. 3: 1883 km, yr. 4: 1442  :>  UPBSN reports.  maintenance plan is
km).                            >  Bank review          operational.
2.2 Drains maintained (annual base cost    nmission.    >  Smooth coordination
of Rs 254,000 for O&M provided).  >  RSAC reports.      between the DOA &
2.3 Ground and surface water quality                        ID.
maintained.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring &        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
3. Technology developed   3.1 No of trained farmers (55,000     3.                   3.
and disseminated.          estimated).                       ' Independent       >  Farmer willingness to
3.2 No. of GOUP staff trained (500      monitoring           adopt appropriate
estimated).                         agencies reports     technology.
3.3 Increased nutrient consumption.     (e.g., IIM).      >  Availability of
3.4 Adoption of improved varieties.  >  UPBSN reports.       qualified & willing
3.5 Diversification of crops.       >  DOA reports.          personnel.
3.6 Improved water management        >  Bank review       >  Availability of inputs.
practices implemented.              missions.         >  farmer willingness to
3.7 Training manuals and modules     o  UPCAR reports.       share knowledge with
prepared.                                                 others.
3.8 Technology refined.
4. Participatory models    4.1 No. of SICs/WUGs/WSHGs           4.                   4.
established.               formed.                          >  SIC reports.      >  Farmer willingness to
4.2 Savings/Loans (Rs).              >  Independent          adopt group approach
4.3 NGO capacity building (staff &      monitoring           and plant
training).                          agencies reports.     accordingly.
4.4 Functioning of                   0  UPBSN reports.   )  Farmer willingness to
SICs/WUGs/WSHGs and farmer                                maintain assets
motivators.                                              through contributions
to groups.
> SIC is ready to take
responsibility.
5.  Upgrading of farm to    5.1 700 km of roads developed.     5.                    5.
market roads          5.2 Maintenance funds available.     >  UPBSN reports.   >  Land is available.
>  PWD reports.      >  Land disputes can be
i  Bank review          mediated.
missions.        o  No resettlement
issues.
)  No acquisition of
land.
> Good inter-
departmental
coordination.
6. Strengthened i          6.1 Incremental staff and O&M costs   6.                 6.
institutions               of UPBSN.                         - UPBSN reports.   o  Transparency.
6.2 Training (local: 300 staff      Bank review          Inter-departmental
estimated; international: 20 staff    missions.      coordination.
estimated).
6.3   Special studies.
Project Components:        1.  156.4 million                   Project progress     Timely and adequate
1. Land Reclamation &     2. $38.2 million                     reports.             counterpart funds made
Farm Development.      3. $8.5 million                                           available to executing
2. Remodeling of Main      4. $13.7 million                    Disbursement         agencies.
Drains.                5. $37.2 million                     reports.
3. Technology              6. $1.5 million                                           Smooth inter-
Dissemination          7. $31.1 million                                          departmental
4. HRD. and Institutional                                                           coordination.
Capacity Building of
Rural Support Services.                                                          Sound project financial
5. Rural Roads                                                                      management.
6. Adaptive Research
7. Project Management.



Annex 2
Page I of 17
ANNEX 2
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Objective. Uttar Pradesh (UP) has nearly 17 million hectares under cultivation and accounts for 10% of
India's net sown area and 25 % of the total irrigated area. It produces nearly 20 % of India's foodgrains.
A major concern in the state is the declining productivity of foodgrains. especially of rice and wheat. This
is due mainly to water-induced land degradation (salinization, sodification, groundwater depletion) and
loss of soil fertility with the sustained removal of nutrients associated with more intensive cropping and the
inappropriate use of heavily subsidized nitrogenous fertilizers. Average annual rate of growth of crop
yields between the periods 1980-90 and 1990-95 has declined, for wheat from 2.4% to 1.6% and for rice
from 5.2% to 1.0% respectively. To arrest and eventually reverse this worrying trend calls for a
coordinated effort to restore productivity on the state's 1.2 million ha of sodic wastelands (10% of total
cultivable area in the state, about 17 % of the salt affected lands in the country are in UP).
The main development objective of the project would be to reverse this process through sustainable
reclamation of sodic lands and prevention of further sodicity in selected districts of the State. This
objective would contribute significantly to poverty alleviation in these areas.
To achieve this development objective, the project would provide support for: (a) utilization of appropriate
soil reclamation technology; (b) remodeling and maintenance of main drains in the districts; (c) upgrading
rural roads; (d) the strengthening of research and extension activities; (e) providing assistance to non-
government organizations to mobilize the communities; and (f) the strengthening of key institutions
involved in the soil reclamation including the main executing agency - Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam
(UPBSN).
Social Context. This project would build on the experience of the pilot project which established water
user groups (WUGs), consisting of 10-15 farmers, one of whom owns a pump set and shares water with
others for use in a 4-5 ha command area forming a primary unit. Members of all WUGs are also part of
the village Site Implementation Committee (SIC), to address inter-WUG3 issues. Leaders of the WUGs
form a Core Team (CT) to function as an executive organ of the SIC. Progressive farmers are identified to
function as mitra kisan (male) (MK) and mahila mitra kisan ( female) (MMK) or change agents/animators
to facilitate an interface between project activities and farm families. In addition women are mobilized to
form self-help groups (WSHGs) and support farm households with supplementary savings and income.
The project would continue this successful intervention and help consolidate efforts, not only to reclaim
degraded land, but also to ensure more sustainable management of natural resources in the future, based on
strong beneficiary participation. Design of the project includes strengthening of relationship between the
beneficiaries and local government and ensuring that the role of women in reclamation is inclusive.
Component 1: On-farm development and land reclamation (USS156.4 million)
Introduction. This component addresses the need for beneficiary-led, on-farm reclamation efforts in sodic
soil areas of the state of Uttar Pradesh. Given the extensive distribution of sodic soils, and the required
long-term commitment for their effective reclamation and management, active community participation
and well coordinated government intervention are critical elements in the project approach. Assessment of
the location of sodic soils and impacts of sodicity on agricultural productivity are led by government.
NGOs engage communities targeted for resource distribution and comrnunities participation is sought at
every stage; from survey and planning through project implementation. A detailed description of the social
assessment performed and incorporated in project design is attached (Attachment 1).
Land Classification. Land reclaimability classification has been found uaseful for suggesting management
technology required to develop sodic land. A simplified system in use is based on land use, intensity of
cropping and soil alkalinity. In a general way the system also classifies the intensity of sodic problem.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 17
Being simple & easy to delineate sodic lands in the field, the system has been adopted for identification &
classification of sodic lands in the pilot project area. The system has also enabled the project authorities to
assess the level of physical and financial assistance required to be given to participating farmers. The
system has the following classes:
Class A lands   :       Normal land, no alkali problem
Class 8+ lands:         Double cropped sodic lands with some irrigation facilities, but
productivity below normal; soil pH > 8.5
Class B lands    :      Single cropped sodic lands with no irrigation facilities, productivity
level very low; soil pH > 8.5
Class C lands   :       Barren sodic lands, soil pH > 8.5 and may go up to 11.0
This system will continue to be used during the project.
Sodic Soils. Salt affected soils are broadly classified into three groups: Saline soils, Alkali soils (commonly
known as Sodic soils) and Saline Alkali soils. In Uttar Pradesh as the occurrence of sodium carbonate is
very common most soils can be designated as Soda-Saline Sodic soils. The salt affected soils in the project
districts suffer from high alkalinity and generally shallow water table. Conditions for the formation of salt
affected soils are created through the accumulation and evaporation of surface run-off water in natural
depressions not having adequate drainage outlets or in areas where man-made infrastructure- roads, railway
lines and canals have artificially blocked horizontal drainage. These soils have developed under impeded
drainage due to nearly impermeable, clayey sub-soils usually underlain by hard pans and high fluctuating
water tables. Problems have been aggravated due to poorly managed surface irrigation systems where
seepage and rising ground water have contributed to secondary salinization.
Salt affected soils in the State are predominantly located in the lower half of the Yamuna-Ganga, Ganga-
Gomti and Gomti-Ghagra doabs having semi-arid to subhumid climate. They are particularly found in the
upper catchments of innumerable smaller tributaries draining the interior where the surface gradient is low,
drainage impeded and ill-defined and water table generally high. Seepage from the network of canals has
compounded the problem. Based on the interpretation of Landsat TM imagery and selective field checks,
mapping of salt-affected wastelands in UP, which were reported as chronically affected by building up
salts, has been carried out by the Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC), UP. These maps show that
most sodic patches are relatively small with scattered distribution. Based on these maps only a few
extensive sodic areas (over 500 ha) can be identified.
Districtwise Availability of Classified Sodic Areas. Districts selected for the project are the same as those
in the on-going pilot project, namely: Aligarh, Allahabad, Etah, Etawah, Fatehpur, Hardoi, Mainpuri,
Pratapgarh, Raebareli and Sultanpur. These districts fall under three agro-ecological zones viz. ; Central
plain zone, South western semi arid zone and Eastern plain zone. The districtwise area of sodic lands are
included in Table 1. The project area was selected on the basis of sodic land maps prepared by RSAC.
Wastelands were delineated based on maps scaled at 1:50,000, corresponding SOI topo sheets, derived
from Landsat satellite Thematic Mapper imagery of 1986. The above referenced table shows that against
total sodic area of 455,120 ha. in 10 districts, an area of 68,800 ha shall be reclaimed at the end of pilot
phase by 1999 - 2000 . Thus a remaining 386,320 ha. would be available against which an area of 150,000
ha. has been planned for the project.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 17
Table 1 Districtwise distribution of Sodic Lands, Uttar Pradesh.
District     Distribution of area (ha)                       Reclaimed in      Remaining
C              B           B+       Total        pilot project    sodic areas
Aligarh      34080          2840        3650     40570       7250              33320
Allahabad   24670           8220        2860     35750       3750              32010
Etah        23900           4660        2480     31040       7250              23790
Etawah       20580          3190        740      24510       7500              17010
Fatehpur    14180           2500        4170     20850       5250              15600
Hardoi       18720          3800        4610     27130       4550              22580
Mainpuri    48780           5050        2240      56070      7250              48820
Pratapgarh   52480          39360       1750     93580       9250              84330
Raebareli   49910           9980        6650     66550       8000              58550
Sultanpur   31310           21860       5910     59070       8750              50320
TOTAL        318610         101460    35060    455120         68800            386320
Criteriafor selection of reclamation areas. The following criteria would be used for selecting reclamation
areas within each district.
(a)     The sodic sites should have a high density of salt affected land preferably more than 30%.
(b)     Average size of individual Water User Group patches should be 4 ha.
(c)     Preferably a main drain should be present nearby.
(d)     Quality of groundwater should be acceptable for irrigation purposes.
Detailed Mapping of Sodic Lands. Following activities have been compileted: I) The sodic land category
in wasteland maps based on 1986 satellite data have been revised for all 10 project districts using 1997-98
data to provide updated infonnation on current availability of sodic lands and its geographic distribution;
2) sites for first reclamation year (1999-2000) have been identified and mnaps of selected villages have been
supplied to RSAC.
Sodic Land Expansion. RSAC would also continue and complete the sodic land expansion study before
March, 1999. Change detection will focus on identification of geographical areas where sodic lands are
expanding and at what rate. The ground characterization in terms of climate, soils, hydrology, drainage,
irrigation practice, ground water regime etc. would be conducted to understand the reasons for sodic land
expansion. GIS would be used in the analysis of cause-effect relationships. Topographic maps (1:50 000)
of I 0 project districts will be digitized to create a digital map base for subsequent use in generating
thematic maps. The digital map base would be completed before December 1998.
Implementation Approach and Beneficiary Participation. Beneficiaries participation is sought at every
stage of survey, planning and project implementation . The process starts with NGO's (representative of
non-Government Organizations; see NGO selection procedures - Attachment 2) visiting the project area to
launch awareness campaigns among the beneficiaries and motivate them to participate in the program .
The beneficiaries assist the project staff in all engineering surveys and planning of on-farm works . All
plans are approved by the Site Implementation Committees (SICs) '. Site Implementation Plans (SIPs) are
developed for each village. The SIP includes information on area to be reclaimed and responsibilities of
UPBSN, the beneficiaries and the facilitating NGOs. The SIP is signed by all the parties. Each beneficiary
l SIC is the village focal point of decision making and implementation of reclamation program. Its members are all the beneficiaries
selected important persons from the village and staff of the project implementing unit. The SIC is composed of the following:
Village head - President; Asst. Manager of UPBSN - Member Secretary; farmer leader (iCisan Sahayak) - Member; village level
staff / officers of rural development, social welfare panchayat electricity, forest, revenue and health dept. - Members ; representative
of NGO - Member; Mitra Kesan I Mahila Mitra Kisan - Member; all beneficiaries members. SIC meetings are held on a fortnightly
basis where project activities and aspects of agriculture development are discussed by the identified male and female lead farmer -
Kisan Sahayaks.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 17
is given a letter specifying that he / she is selected by the project . The letter also gives details of the inputs
to be received by the beneficiary and the labor that has to be provided by each beneficiary. Beneficiaries
form their own Water User Groups (WUGs) 2 who decide on the sites of boring, procure pumpsets, develop
irrigation , fix water charges, water sharing and distribution for their 4 ha. units. They construct and
maintain irrigation and drainage channels. The farmers level their own fields, apply gypsum and
undertake all reclamation operations and crop production activities. Technology dissemination is linked to
the extension services where Mitra Kisan (MK) / Mahila Mitra Kisan (MMK)3 serve as contact farmers for
the Kisan Sahayaks (KSs)4. The beneficiaries establish their own mini-banks in the form of Self Help
Groups (SHGs)5 which in due course of time entitle them to loans from cooperative and commercial banks.
SHGs thus not only assist in credit management during the project period but in sustainability of the project
activities afterward.
Reclamation Process:
On Farm Development and Drainage. The process of reclamation (year 2-4) will be similar to what has
been tested in the pilot project. Before the kharif (monsoon) season, a bund (about 35-50 cm) is
constructed around each selected sodic affected field along with separate canals for delivering irrigation
water to these fields and for discharging excess surface water from them (field drains). The layout and
engineering (grade and capacity) of both canals serving the integrated network of contiguous fields that
form the reclamation "unit" are designed by UPBSN staff to provide for the irrigation and surface
drainage needs of each field within the unit 4 ha plots, and field drains linked to intermediary and main
drains in a continuous flow. The farmers till each field to a depth of 10-15 cm, levelling by eye and a slope
of 0.1% is given towards the field drains.
Irrigation Development. The field is irrigated mostly by tubewell. Shallow cavity strainer tubewells fitted
with 5-8 HP diesel pumps or 3-5 HP electric operated pumps have been considered the most suitable
source of irrigation under this project. Hence a 4 inch diameter boring of PVC/metallic pipe is being drilled
for 4 ha land area. The tubewell forms the nucleus of 10-15, 0.3 ha fields forming the 4 ha unit.
Reclamation Operation. The field is flooded up to a depth of about 8-10 cm. This is used to breakdown the
clods and to further level the field; the clods slake and settle as they soak-up the water and clay minerals
which are dispersed from them settle out to produce a smoother and leveled soil surface. The standing
water also helps the farmer determine the relatively high and low spots in the field and give finer levelling
and the necessary grade in the field.
After two days of flooding of the field the excess surface water is drained. Some of the salts present in the
top soil is dissolved in this process and is removed from the field via the discharge of drainage water. The
discharged water ends up in the main drains and subsequently the rivers where it is diluted by the monsoon
rain water.
The surface drained soils dries rapidly due to the hot and dry period so that within a few days farmers are
able to enter the field and apply the gypsum6. The amount of gypsum applied is determined by the project
staff and based on an analysis made on a composite soil sample collected from about 8-10 locations in the
field. In the case of B and C class land only 50 percent of the requirement is applied this time. Typical
dosage of gypsum is about 6 tonnes/ha for Class B+ land, 10 tonnes/ha for Class B and 12 tonnes/ha for
Class C. The gypsum is mixed with the soil to a depth of 6-8 cm. After a week the field is again flooded
2 WUGs formed by the beneficiaries themselves on every 4 ha. unit area covering 10 - 15 contiguous holdings in the command of a
tubewell.
' MK / MMK are selected among and by the beneficiaries on every 50 ha. sodic lands primarily for doing extension work (technology
transfer) in the group.
KSs village level worker of the extension service.
SHGs formed among the beneficiaries for personal savings in a group as a mini-bank and subsequently linked to the Cooperative
and commercial banks for loan assistance for all types of personal and reclamation needs on fulfillment of the lending bank's
requirements.
6 About 2,500 ha out of 150,000 ha programmed for reclamation under this project would be reclaimed with pressmud and the
attached note (Attachment 3) provides the details.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 17
with irrigation water to a depth of about 10 cm for about 10 days, more water is added to keep the pounded
water level at this depth during this period. The irrigation continues until the soil has softened to a depth of
about 20 cm. No puddling is done. The surface water is drained carrying with it salts as well as
considerable amounts of the reaction products of reclamation (sodium sulphate).
The land is now ready for the first paddy crop which is grown regardless of the class of land. Rice
seedlings of 35-45 days (older than used for nornal soils) are transplanted into the fields at higher than
normal density (3-4 plants per hill; about 15 cm between hill). The field is then re-flooded and kept
pounded at about 10 cm for another 10 days; it is then drained for about a period of 7-10 days to encourage
rooting development and is then re-flooded as the monsoon rain permit and kept so till some time before
the harvest of paddy crop. Being low in humus and available nitrogen, application of 120 Kg N per ha.
(20% higher than for normal soils) is applied along with 30 to 35 Kg. Zinc Sulphate. P205 is applied on the
basis of soil test.
Wheat is grown in the following Rabi season. For the Class B and C lancds remaining 20% gypsum is
applied and mixed into the topsoil before irrigation when the field is being tilled in preparation for the
seeding of the wheat crop. This gypsum is selectively applied to the remaining relatively more sodic spots
in the field. Seed rate is 20% higher, @ 120 Kg. per ha., than for normal soils. Similarly nitrogen is also
increased by 20% above the normal soils i.e. @ 120 Kg per ha. Zinc is applied @ 25 Kg Zinc Sulphate and
P2O5 & K2O on soil test basis. Application of farm compost even in light dressings has been found
beneficial to soil improvement and crop production. Since alkali soils have very low water intake rate,
irrigation dozes are not more than 5 cm at a time, first irrigation 4 weeks after sowing and subsequent
irrigations at 15 to 20 days interval. Field is drained if incidentally water stagnates for more than 16 hours.
In the following season of the rice/wheat rotation, Sesbania is grown as aL green-manure crop. Sesbania is
grown for a period of 45 days and the resulting bio-mass is incorporated into the field as it is tilled in
preparation for the next rice crop. A good crop of Sesbania adds 60-80 Kg nitrogen per ha. The rotation of
crops paddy/wheat/Sesbania is then continued without the further use of gypsum, but with continued
maintenance of the field and link drains. It is recommended that in case of B+ and B class of land,
Sesbania be grown as a first crop, if possible, for green manuring followed by paddy. As the soil improves,
wheat is replaced by mustard as a more remunerative crop during the second year of cropping.
Withdrawal Strate. The withdrawal strategy denotes the actions and mechanisms to be followed to
ensure the sustainability of the impact created when once the project is cllosed. Sustainability of the impact
is dependent on the capacity of beneficiaries; effective functioning of WlJGs, SIC, SHGs; maintenance of
infrastructure like drains, borings and pumpsets; continuous crop production in the reclaimed lands;
availability of credit for crop production and micro-enterprises and linkages with concerned line
departments for technical support. During the last year of project implementation, an evaluation will be
made to assess the status of land reclaimed, crop production, functioning of beneficiary institutions,
utilization and maintenance of resources and infrastructures created, credlit availability and a detailed
activity schedule in consultation with beneficiaries, line departments, NC;Os and credit institutions will be
developed for the project area of post-reclamation.
Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Main Drains (US$38.2 million)
The main drain rehabilitation and maintenance component of the proposed project will address an
important aspect of sodic lands reclamation that was not adequately treated in the first four years of the
pilot project implementation. Once rehabilitated using appropriate design parameters the drain network will
remove leach effluent from reclaimed sodic lands (about 150,000 ha), will remove excess rain and
agricultural drainage from cultivated areas. Total catchment area of these main drains is about 1.2 million
ha. Improved drain network operation will have positive environmental impact by reversing, arresting or
delaying the process of sodic land formnation. Land and water management techniques being developed
under the pilot sub-project, when extended to cover larger areas under the proposed project would ensure
sustainability of prior interventions in addition to helping prevent further sodic land formation.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 17
This component involves the rehabilitation of existing natural drains to provide adequate and effective
drainage in ten districts covering three agro-ecological zones in south-western, central and eastern parts of
the state. The component comprises rehabilitation of about 5,740 km of main drains (16% of the total
estimated length of 37,000 km in the State and 38% of the total existing main drains in the ten districts; see
Attachment 4 for a districtwise drain remodelling plan). Areas to be reclaimed under the project are
identified with essentially the same procedure used for the pilot. The Remote Sensing Application Centre
(RSAC) provides initial identification, presented on maps with cadastral scale (about 1:4,000). This is
followed by field-surveys by UPBSN. Ultimately, the drains to be rehabilitated are selected on the basis of
the location of villages with sodicity problems. It is estimated that in UP about 390,000 ha are sodic, the
target reclamation area of the pilot is 68,800 ha and under the project an additional area of 150,000 ha will
be reclaimed.
Rehabilitation works. Rehabilitation would comprise the following: (a) removal of water-hyacinth and
cutting and removing of grass (such as behaya and elephant grass); (b) desilting and (c) embankment
remedial repairs. Rehabilitation of existing main drains will include also repair and provision of
appropriate crossings and village road bridges to guarantee unimpeded access. In addition a profile (pucca)
of either precast blocks or cement concrete would be constructed every 500 m along the main drains, as
this helps to remind farmers and maintenance crews of the once rehabilitated level and profile of the main
drain.
Maintenance work of the main drains would start one year after rehabilitation. Maintenance works would
follow the norms established by ID. or Maintenance work on the main drains would start one year after
rehabilitation. Main drains would be maintained by the ID through private contractors. GOUP has provided
a commitment to finance the maintenance of drains with funds from the GOUP budget and centrally
sponsored schemes. In addition, the project would finance maintenance of the drains on a declining basis.
The Irrigation Department will be the implementing agency for rehabilitating drains and will provide
dedicated divisions to undertake the drainage work in the ten districts of the project. Seven divisions each
headed by an Executive Engineer have been given the task of carrying out the drain rehabilitation
activities. The participatory processes developed under the on-going project for land reclamation activities
would be adopted in the execution of rehabilitation of drains and in their subsequent maintenance. Cost and
labor sharing concepts would be used to ensure ownership and sustainability. The ID will set up a project
management cell at Lucknow headed by a Level-I Chief Engineer and associated staff. This cell would
liaise with the UPBSN to ensure smooth and efficient execution of the drainage component involving ID.
Two superintending engineers would be appointed to work on a dedicated basis for this project. They
would be placed in the district headquarters - each superintending engineer covering five project districts.
The dedicated divisions as at present would be headed by an executive engineer with associated personnel.
The executive engineers would report to the dedicated superintending engineers who in turn would report
to the dedicated Chief Engineer. It is felt that such an arrangement would allow UPBSN officers to access
highest levels of decision-making authority in ID and expeditiously resolve bottlenecks affecting the
implementation of the drainage component. In addition, an expert panel comprising engineers, farmers and
agriculturalists would carry out impact evaluations.
Detailed project implementation schedules are currently being prepared by the ID executive engineers and
their staff in consultation with UPBSN and with assistance from consultants. The implementation of the
drainage component depends on equipping ID engineers with modern surveying instruments and design
aides including computers. Provision of vehicles will increase their mobility and ability to complete field
investigations in a time-bound manner. Sensitization of ID officers to the participatory processes will
require ongoing inputs from WALMI. The participatory process envisaged would allow for public
consultation with stakeholders which would improve the quality of plans, designs and physical works.
Such consultations would also help provide a feeling of ownership and commitment to the stakeholders.
Regular training courses will be organized for the officers of the dedicated divisions at WALMI. Well-
performing divisions would be rewarded by study tours and training courses abroad.
Technical Assistance and Equipment for Monitoring and Survey. This sub-component calls for the
development of a data base and geographic information system to improve drainage system management.
Currently the 7 dedicated divisions have no systematic storage scheme for data pertaining to the design,



Annex 2
Page 7 of 17
execution, maintenance, rehabilitation and economic and environmental impact of the drainage network.
Information that is collected cannot be tapped expediently. Data needed for evaluation of existing network
operations are insufficient and consequently actions are taken on a case by case basis rather than routinely
scheduled.
The project will support the creation of; 1) a storage system combining data and graphical information
pertaining to the existing and remodelled drainage network; 2) archiving and distribution of operation
references to facilitate maintenance of the drainage systems; and 3) a data base on the size, characteristics,
and frequency of existing and remodelled drainage network maintenance operations. The project will also
support improved drainage network maintenance methods. Studies of diagnostic criteria for the operation
of drainage network and the impact of maintenance on agricultural productivity of reclaimed sodic lands
are expected to improve planning and implementation of maintenance of drainage network, and to
contribute to the definition of preventive intervention procedures based on locally-established standards.
Training. Training provisions will be made for ID staff and Water User Groups. For ID staff training
might include design and construction and O&M of drainage works as well as the management information
system and contract management. A lump-sum provision would be maLde to cover local training, spread
over five years in the field of management and administration, computers, design and investigations,
construction supervision, contract management and public awareness campaigns. Local training would also
apply to Water Users Groups and NGO's engaged in drainage work as well as to the staff of contractors
engaged in drainage works. Training of WUGs will facilitate their active role to organise. monitor and
implement maintenance of main drains.
Component 3: Technology Dissemination (US$8.5 million)
Introduction. Extension is at a crossroads in UP. In the context of agricultural globalization, diversification
of production systems, depletion of the natural resource base and changing institutional roles, the needs of
UP's farmers are rapidly and continuously shifting. A sustainable techinology development and
dissemination system is needed to respond to new challenges faced by UP's agriculturalists. Public sector
extension is a state-level responsibility with three line departments, namely Departments of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Horticulture (DOA, DAH, DOH) playing the dlominant role in providing this
service. At the present time, each line department operates its own respective extension service with little
coordination between their programs. With the exception of the DOA, the other line departments have
emphasized the distribution of subsidized inputs and services with little effort given to empowering
farmers.
Objectives of the Community Based Technology Dissemination Service. The main objective of the
proposed component would be to establish a community-based, demand driven system for technology
dissemination in the project districts. It would build on successes of the Pilot Project in developing
people's grassroots organizations and their participation in technology dissemination activities. To respond
to lessons learnt during the Pilot Project and to effectively support the extension needs through the line
departments, especially DOA, the project is proposing to integrate sodic areas with the regular public
extension service from the outset and prepare the line department staff to take on this responsibility using
participatory methodologies. It is proposed that the extension approachi would take into account the
following key elements:
(a)    decentralization of management responsibility for the extension service to the district and
block level;
(b)    local participation in the design and delivery of technology dissemination educational programs;
(c)    involvement of the private sector and NGOs in technology dissemination;
(d)    strengthening research-extension linkages;
(e)    enhancing coordination between line departments;
(f)    developing extension systems to address the farming system needs; and
(g)    the development of human capital for sustainable natural resource management.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 17
The overall design and implementation approach being proposed for the technology dissemination
component would be consistent and coordinated with the reform of the extension service to be undertaken
through the Bank/lIDA assisted UPDASP.
A starting point in forming the technology dissemination system is the development of a common macro
vision (the big picture) which must find support at the top; at the state and district levels as well as be
owned by the farming communities. An important element of this vision would be a common
understanding of shared leadership and supporting actions needed to adjust the institutional and operational
arrangements for a demand driven service. Agreed changes needed to achieve this objective under the
project are briefly discussed below (additional details are given in the PIP).
Institutional Development. To provide oversight and policy guidance an Interdepartmental Working Group
(IWG) on technology dissemination would be established at the state level to support a common vision for
the project (as well as for the UPDASP). This group would provide overall policy guidance for the reform
of the technology dissemination system, ensure the flow of adequate funds for implementation of agreed
programs, monitor performance, and serve as liaison between the various agencies.
At the district and block levels it is proposed to adopt a multidisciplinary team approach to technology
dissemination. The project would help to establish a District Implementation Coordination Committee
(DICC) with representative membership from government, farmer's organizations and NGOs to oversee
implementation at the district level. DICC would in turn establish a multidisciplinary District Technology
Management Team (DTMT). These teams, to be established by redeployment of existing staff, would be
given greater autonomy to operate in a self-directed manner. These teams would consist of extension and
research staff who would be responsible for planning, implementing and evaluating demand driven
technology dissemination programs prepared in partnership with the farming communities. To define and
prioritize their efforts the DTMT will prepare a Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP). SREP, to
be updated every 3-5 years, would provide the framework for planning of field demonstration programs
including on-farm validation/adaptation of new technologies; developing annual/seasonal work plans, and
providing technical training and guidance to Block Technology Team members.
At the farming community level it is proposed to build on beneficial results achieved from greater
participation by the farming communities in the pilot phase by establishing a block Farmers Advisory and
Information Management Committee (FAIMC). The key function of this committee would be to oversee
preparation and implementation of demand driven seasonal technology plans based on SREPs. FAIMC
would also actively facilitate two way flow of information between the public and private companies
involved with rural development. It would also assist in identifying training needs for farmers. In time, it
is expected that FAIMC would become an important element in maintaining oversight, interjecting farmers
views in to the planning and decision making process and providing feed-back to the extension service for
transfer of knowledge and provision of other services to farmers for profitable management of their
farming enterprises.
Development and implementation of block level seasonal plans would be the responsibility of the Block
Technology Team (BTT). The BTT members would include representatives of key line departments and
NGOs. and, where appropriate, representative of Mitra Kisan and Mahila Mitra Kisan. They would work
closely with the Village Extension Workers (VEWs), NGOs and the private sector representatives to
deliver technology dissemination programs at the Naya Panchayat/village level. BTT, under guidance
from DTMT, would prepare the seasonal work plans based on the district SREP. Given the demand driven
nature of the planning process, it is expected that their implementation would meet the needs of all socio-
economic groups of farm families.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 17
To institutionalize self-help concept and to mobilize greater farmer involvement in technology
dissemination activities, farmers from every 50-100 ha would be invited to nominate one male (Mitra
Kisan) and female (Mahila Mitra Kisan) farmer or a member of the farming community to become
voluntary facilitators for technology dissemination/knowledge transfer to follow farmers. This concept has
already been successfully tested under the Pilot Project and recognizes that farmers are the best
trainers/educators to train fellow farmers. Following training by the BTT members and other appropriate
skill enhancement support, these volunteers would operate as the Self-Help Technology Team (SHTT) at
the Naya Panchayat level. These local leaders, working with both the public and private sector
functionaries, including NGOs, would be instrumental in implementing awareness campaigns, field
demonstrations and other farm level activities aimed at technology dissemination. In time it is expected that
the SHTTs would be able to perform most of the tasks undertaken by DOA Village Extension Workers
(VEWs) and serve as change agents for introduction and adoption of improved farm management practices
by farm families.
Research lExtension Linkages. Linking extension and research functions more closely is an important goal
of the proposed project. Effective linkages between research and extension have been a considerable
challenge to UP agricultural development institutions. The project's emphasis on establishment of the
multidisciplinary teams provides a built-in mechanism for stronger linkage between these two services at
different stages of the technology development and dissemination process. Additionally, adoption of a
participatory approach involving farming communities has the potential to make a real improvement in the
relevance, effectiveness and sustainability of UP's agricultural technolDgy system. Improved targeting of
on-farm adaptive research to address technical problems identified by the district SREPs would provide an
effective mechanism for developing location specific recommendations for farmers. The adoption of a
competitive mechanism for allocation of funds for research would enable participation by the private sector
and/or NGOs.
Strengthening of Communications Capacity. At present geographic dispersion and weak communications
infrastructure is a major impediment to team development and operation. Accordingly, the project would
fund further development of the information technology infrastructure to connect teams between and
among districts and blocks. Rapid communications with the headquarters and with other districts would
provide ready access to administrative information and enable shared learning in meeting location specific
needs of farmers. The project would expand the successful experiences of the pilot Project and support the
use of mass-media (radio, television, print media and other audio-visual methods) as an integral part of the
educational and field activities of the extension staff.
Human Resource Development. Development of human capital would be an important activity under the
project. Each district (and at a later stage, block level team) would participate in "Developing A
Curriculum" (DACUM) process to establish the general areas of competency, in both technical and process
skills, required to be an effective team member. Team members who have excelled at their jobs would be
asked to explain in their language what they do and how they do it, and to develop a skill profile of what
each DTMT/BTT member does on the job. These DACUM results would be used to develop curricula for
staff training and for developing job descriptions for new team members. Stakeholders would be involved
in reviewing the DACUM results and providing input on the general areas of competency expected and
required for DTMT and BTT members.
Technical Assistance For Effective Project Implementation. Since the proposed project would be
implemented through a demand driven and a decentralized community based technology dissemination
system; there will be a need for continuous back-up support for the adoption of participatory
methodologies and to advise on management issues. This work would be undertaken by a consultant
advisor. Other short-term technical assistance would be through special assignments, such as teamwork
training, curriculum development for different types of human resource development activities and
monitoring/evaluation. These consultants would work closely with the project management at the UPBSN.
The training specialists would also collaborate closely with the national at state level training institutions,
e.g., MANAGE, Rehman Khera and DTMTs in planning and implementation of training courses within



Annex 2
Page 10 of 17
UP. Once the MANAGE and Rehman Khera staff is empowered, the role of the training specialist would
gradually diminish.
Component 4: Upgrading farm to market roads (US$37.2 million)
Introduction. Rural road infrastructure is a critical component of the land reclamation project and is vital
for its efficient execution as well as successful impact. Investment in infrastructure, especially rural roads,
strengthens land reclamation efforts, agricultural development and commercialization through improving
access by the farmers to inputs and markets. The expansion of rural roads, markets, credit facilities,
transportation, communication and power have a direct bearing on productivity increases as well as to
agricultural value added. Improved transportation is likely to lead to increased employment generation and
higher household incomes, conversely a lack of rural transport infrastructure often delays agricultural
development by making it more difficult for farmers to produce and market high-value, perishable
products.
The state of Uttar Pradesh has an area of 294,41 1 sq km that is about 9% of the total land area of India. UP
is the most populous state in the country. The state's population (1991 census) was 151 million, which is
about 16% of India's total. The road network in the state is comparatively less developed taking into
account the much higher than average population density. The length of the state's road network is
107,276 km (Attachment 5). The road density per million inhabitants is 710 km, or about 30% of the
national average of 2462 km. On an area basis, the density is 60 km of roadway per 100 sq. km, which is
close to the national average. About 52% of villages in the state are not yet connected with all weather
roads. According to some estimates 20-30% of the agricultural, horticultural and forest produce is wasted
due to lack of roads to carry the produce to market resulting in avoidable poverty. This component would
help address these issues, reinforcing without overlapping the recently approved U.P. Diversified
Agricultural Support Project rural road construction component.
Road Screening and Selection Criteria. Under this component rural roads construction would be taken up
in areas where sodic land is being reclaimed. UPBSN has identified 3435 Villages located in the ten
project districts which are affected by sodicity. A detailed reconnaissance survey of these villages and the
status of their connectivity is currently being constructed. To ensure maximum benefits from project
supported road improvements, only roads which provide all weather access to unconnected villages will be
taken up for rehabilitation. Other, more specific screening criteria are as follows:
*  Only roads connecting villages with a population above 500 qualify, unless it can be demonstrated that
a particular area with lower population has significant land reclamation potential;
*  Proposed access roads to villages should not involve any land acquisition and that for any land
required for local improvements would be contributed by the beneficiaries willingly and to that effect
beneficiaries should be willing to execute a MOU with the local administration as per the proforma
finalized under UPDASP and circulated to all District Collectors under UPDASP (Attachment 6);
*  Proposed roads must take off from existing PWD all weather road;
*  Villages within two kilometers from the main road are presumed to be connected ; and
*  Roads would be chosen according to their score using the following formula:
Ranking score ={ P/ 5 + S}( L-2)
P= Village population as per 1991 census
S= Sodic land in the village in Hectares
L= length of access road in Kilometer.
*  Roads will be built in advance of commencement of land reclamation activities;
*  Districtwise length of roads to be taken up under this component will be in proportion to the sodic land
proposed to be reclaimed under the project .
Road Construction Standards. Generally, roads under the project would be built in accordance with Indian
Road Congress (IRC) standards for rural roads, however, to minimize land requirements, roads could also
be built to the "functional standards" as agreed under the UPDASP Rural roads component.



Annex 2
Page 11 of 17
Right of way = 9 m in open, and 5 m in built-up areas
Formation width = 6 m
Carriageway width = 3 m for A type and 3.75 m for B type roads
CD works = 7.5 m out to out of parapets for piped culverts
Design speed = 30 KPH
Minimum radius of curvature = 30 m
Roads to be constructed under the project will generally be of the following two categories:
"A" -  Village Roads (VR) - 3 m carriageway and 6 m formation width;
"B" -  Ordinary District Roads (ODR) - 3.75 m carriageway and 7.5 m formation width
VRs will be village access roads of shorter length (up to 5. 0 km), and would carry light traffic only
(tractor trailers, bullock carts, light commercial vehicles, etc.). ODRs would serve a number of villages
and would link these areas to the main all-weather highway network.
Project Management and Implementation. The Engineer-in-Chief, PVVD has agreed to mobilizing
dedicated staff to implement the road components under the proposed project. For better coordination
between the implementing authorities and efficient project management the project will continue to use the
various committees established under the pilot project. As the pilot project did not have a roads component
PWD has not been associated with these committees and in this phase it will be necessary to appoint
officers of the PWD to these committees. The project includes in addition to improvement of project
roads, strengthening of PWD monitoring capacity, training for PWD engineers, consulting services, and
funding for road maintenance at a gradually diminishing rate (80%, 60%, and 40% in the fourth, fifth, and
sixth year of the project.
As the works under the proposed project would be carried out through the use of contractors, it is proposed
to appoint PWD as the sole agency for execution.
*  PWD officials (EinC, CE, and SE) have full powers to accept tenders of any amount. The EE
has powers to accept tenders up to Rs. 0.5 million.
  For purpose of execution, all road works in each or adjacent block would be combined to
form packages of the size ranging from Rs. 15 to 30 million. As such that almost all tenders
may be accepted by the Supt. Eng in PWD.
Project implementation is planned over a 4-year period. Both PWD and UPBSN have agreed to complete
selection of villages in first two phases by Sept. 30 1998, and detailed engineering of roads by Nov. 30,
1998.
Environmental Impact. Direct environmental impacts are expected to be minor in the plains which
constitute most part of the state, since the proposed roads will: (a) not pass through classified forests and
ecologically sensitive areas; (b) be located in geologically stable zones; and (c) be built on existing
alignment.
Road Maintenance. Adequate resources to finance the maintenance of rural roads once upgraded have been
committed by GOUP. GOUP has established a Road Fund for the maintenance of all state roads funded by
a fuel tax. The Public Works Department will be responsible for the maintenance of the roads.
Component 5: HRD and institutional capacity building of support services (US$13.7 million)
Introduction. This component emphasizes staff training and institutional strengthening in the Panchayats,
NGOs and executing government agencies supporting the project's main activities -- land reclamation and
farm irrigation development. Several government agencies and NGOs will offer critical support to the
development of the project and addressing their training and investment needs is seen as a further



Annex 2
Page 12 of 17
guarantee of project effectiveness and sustainability. Training needs addressed in the project include
agency specific modules, and "exposure" visits in India and abroad. Project support for institutional
strengthening takes different forms depending on the particular needs of each institution. This component
would also support action research on local credit services and a marketing study described briefly below.
Strengthening of Panchayats. The proposed project envisages that the Panchayat Raj system would take
over a number of development activities over a period of time. GOUP indicated that for the Panchayats to
be able to take overall administrative and financial responsibility they require to be strengthened at both the
village and district levels. In this regard, the proposed project, would assist in providing financing for the
construction of gram panchayat bhavans (community halls ) for use of communities, including farmer
groups, and site implementation committees set up under the project and training (including provision of
books) for elected officials. The Panchayat Secretariat would also be strengthened so as to be able to
provide administrative support tc the local government bodies. The scope of the assistance would be
limited to the project districts and the Village Panchayats that fall within the jurisdiction of the sodic areas.
Criteria for the selection and location of the Gram Panchayat bhavans and selection of trainers would be
developed prior to negotiations. Details of implementation of this component would also be provided by
GOUP prior to negotiations.
Strengthening of Government Agencies and NGOs. Training provisions would be made for staff of ID,
UPBSN, RASC, and Water User Groups. For ID staff training might include design and construction and
O&M of drainage works as well as the management information system and contract management. For
UPBSN staff training would emphasize participatory methods in project management. A lump-sum
provision would be made to cover local training, spread over five years in the field of management and
administration, computers, design and investigations, construction supervision, contract management and
public awareness campaigns. Local training would also apply to Water Users Groups and NGO's engaged
in drainage work as well as to the staff of contractors engaged in drainage works. Training of WUGs will
facilitate their active role to organise, monitor and implement maintenance of main drains. Under the
proposed projecl: working relationships with international institutes such as IOWA State University and the
Soil Salinity Lab at Riverside, California would be established. Training and exchange visits would be
arranged for scientists (junior and senior) involved in salinity research.
Details of the duration and timing of all training modules supported by the project are given in Attachment
8 and are presented in summarized form in Table 3 below.
Table 3. Training for HRD & Instittitional Capacity Building
Institutional Strengthening   Staff  Exposurel Field  Office  lVehicles Buildings
Training  Visits  Equipment Goods I
Equipment
Panchayats
UPBSN
NGOs
Line Departments
Irrigation Department
PWD
DOA                      *__
RASC
Support Services
Adaptive Research Training    *
Local Credit Services  I
Pilot Credit Action research. The objectives of this component would be: (a) evaluate the sustainability of
self help groups (SHGs) in areas that UPBSN has withdrawn; ( b) evaluate the demonstration effect of
sodic area SHGs in non- sodic areas (c ) key factors ensuring cohesiveness of groups; and (d) evaluate pro-



Annex 2
Page 13 of 17
active role of formal credit institutions to facilitate delivery of services to SHGs. Sustainability of the
reclamation process is dependent to a large extent on beneficiaries beiog able to obtain short-term
institutional credit. Due to poor recovery rate in the past rural Banks are unwilling to provide credit to
individuals but are willing to provide credit to "sustainable" self-help groups (SHGs). The Banks are
concerned that with the withdrawal of UPBSN from project areas the groups that have been formed under
the project would dissolve. A action research study has been developedi in two districts Aligarh and
Pratapgarh, by NGOs, Banks and UPBSN. NGOs would be utilized to interact with and motivate
communities/and self-help group in three different areas in the district i.e. areas where UPBSN has
withdrawn, in the project area, and in non-sodic areas. Differences, sirnilarities of the SHGs and key
elements for sustainability would be evaluated. NABARD and participating Banks are expected to utilize
the results of the study for future lending to SHGs within the context of GOI's recently announced policy
of rapidly extending credit to SHG.
Marketing Sub-component: A major constraint to diversify in to high valued salt tolerant horticultural
crops is the lack of marketing facilities and post harvest technology for these highly perishable crops. The
project would support short strategic studies on demand, production and market opportunities and provide
for seed money for research into post harvest technology to be carried out by the private sector. A joint
forum of public and private sector representatives would be established to draft terms of reference for the
studies and to review research proposals. The project would also support upgrading of one village market
( haath panith) in each district to be managed by the Panchayats so as to sensitize beneficiaries of
marketing opportunities. Farmers would be taken on exposure visits to successful markets in other parts of
the state and country to provide insights into the marketing opportunities that are available. Additionally, a
progressive farmer in each village would be trained in establishing backward and forward market linkages
and members of women's self-help groups would be trained in agro-processing.
Component 6: Adaptive Research (US$1.5 million)
Introduction. In the proposed project, as in the pilot, adaptive research would be conducted with the overall
objective of verifying and refining the available technologies to suit the location specific needs of farmers
and to bring about sustainable increases in the productivity of sodic lands through reclamation. Work
would continue to be conducted at The Narendra Dev University of Agriculture & Technology, Kumarganj
(NDUAT), Faizabad and monitored by the U. P. Council of Agricultural Research (UPCAR) but additional
research partners would also be sought. Research to date has covered food cropping systems, horticulture
tree crop systems, aromatic and medicinal grasses, fuel and fodder production, and a few exploratory
research areas. Under the proposed project the establishment of long term basic and strategic research
objectives would be coordinated with other recently approved Bank projects, the National Agricultural
Technology Project and U.P. Diversified Agricultural Support Project.
Issues and priorities emergingfrom the pilot phase. In the technical realm several priorities have been
identified.; 1) Diversified, profitable cropping models need to be developed for the reclamation as well as
the post reclamation period; 2) Feasible low cost technology is needed for adoption by resource poor small
and marginal farmers; 3) Need for high yielding short duration crop varieties including hybrids, that are
tolerant to sodic conditions, under different agro-eco situations; 4) Declining trend in crop yields during the
post reclamation period needs to be reversed; 5) Inclusion of a greater number of institutions to participate
in adaptive research to improve the quality of research agenda; and 6) Need to continue some of the
program started during the pilot phase to obtain conclusive results. In the administrative and managerial
realm to effectively carry out adaptive research and to increase operational efficiency it will be necessary to
provide adequate administrative and financial powers to the Principal Investigators. Proper selection of
experimental sites; regular monitoring by the Principal Investigator and UPCAR; adequate training of
personnel involved in program implementation; conduct of the studies in the farmers' field and training of
scientists involved in various areas of research and program implementation are other issues emerging
from pilot project implementation.



Annex 2
Page 14 of 17
Focus ofAdaptive Research. Based on the technical issues identified by the ongoing pilot project and on
the suggestions of the peer reviewers who had visited the pilot project areas, the following approach has
been established. Many experiments started in the pilot will be continued to arrive at conclusive results of
practical applicability. There is scope for reducing the cost of reclamation through use of locally available
organic materials (see Attachment 3) as amendment, flushing the sodium carbonate salts prior to gypsum
application, selecting crop varieties in the cropping system and increasing the use-efficiency of inputs to
hasten reclamation. Indications are that certain genotypes perform better in the initial stages of reclamation,
whereas others show better response on partially reclaimed soils. A large number of agronomically
acceptable genotypes for both conditions should therefore be screened. Evidence indicates that plant
nutrient requirements on sodic soil differ normal soil and that greater attention to integrated nutrient system
including inorganic, organic and biological sources may be important to maintain soil fertility and achieve
sustainable production.
Detailed data are needed on salt dynamics and water flux during reclamation as well as in post- reclamation
period to develop computer simulation models under different management interventions. These models
will help in evolving suitable management methods to maintain salt balance and water flux within
acceptable limits. The utility of the UNSATCHEM model developed at USSL Riverside will be appraised
for its suitability for use in the project area. UNSATCHEM is a one-dimensional model that calculates
variably-saturated water flow, and multicomponent chemical, CO2 and heat transport. There is a continuing
need to do basic research to improve our understanding of the causes leading to the formation of sodic soils
and reinforce efforts to prevent the spread of soil sodicity in Indo-Gangetic plain.
Detailed Research Program. A brief summary of different research areas, objectives of experiments, main
treatments, implementing institutions, impact points, and review and reporting arrangements are given in
the attached table (Attachment 9). Guidelines for the conduct of experiments are provided in the Project
Implementation Plan, which will improve the efficiency and quality of adaptive research.
Competitive Research System. The competitive research system on the lines followed in Diversified
Agriculture Support Project (DASP) for Competitive Agricultural Research Funding (CARF) will be
adopted to a) draw more extensively on the comparative advantages of research capacity that exists both
inside and outside of SAUs system; b) enhance team work and collaboration amongst public and private
institutions in UP and national level; c) broaden the participation of the private sector in developing and
pilot testing of innovations; and d) improve the quality of research and accelerate the pace of technology
development for efficient reclamation and management of sodic soils. The entire process will be
coordinated by UPCAR. The proposals finally approved will be awarded to the concerned investigator with
complete details. Identified special areas of research will be undertaken in collaboration with the Central
Soil Salinity Research Center, Karnal and long-term basic research will receive assistance from The
National Agricultural Technology Project and UP Diversified Agriculture Support Project. Details and
procedures to be followed are given in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Advisory Committee and Linkages with National and International Institutes. There will be an advisory
committee composed of national and international scientists. Its main task would be to provide an oversight
on the quality, direction and relevance of research work. It will assist in determining the broad thrust areas
and identifying the foreign scientists and universities to establish long term mutually beneficial linkages
with Indian Institutions in soil salinity research. This advisory committee will meet once a year and submit
its report to UPCAR for consideration and implementation of recommendations. Funds for these annual
meetings will be provided by the project. The Advisory Committee's composition, its terms of reference,
and mode of operation are given in the PIP. Under the proposed project working relationships with
international institutes such as IOWA State University and the Soil Salinity Lab at Riverside, California
would be established. This would include exchange visits, training of scientists involved in salinity
research. Modalities for formalizing the linkages would be developed by UPCAR in consultation with
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and CSSR.



Annex 2
Page 15 of 17
Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSR), Karnal. The Central Soil Salinity Research Institute,
Karnal established in 1969 under ICAR has developed into a center of excellence at the national level with
a mandate to conduct research on different aspects of salt affected so:ils. The technologies developed for
reclamation and management of sodic soils at the institute have been adopted widely in Haryana and
Punjab and to some extent in Uttar Pradesh. The institute has proposed to establish a sub-station in U.P.
shortly. The institute has agreed to collaborate by (1) conducting research on selected items at Shlvri farm
of UPBSN, (2) undertaking special studies at CS SRI, and (3) preparing training courses on sod
reclamation technology, water management, methods to use sodic irrigation waters, soil and water
analytical methods, and agro-forestry systems for sodic soils.
Component 7: Project Management (USS31.) million)
Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN). A reorganized and strengthened UPBSN would have the
overall responsibility for coordinating the implementation of this multi-disciplinary project. In the long-
term, it is envisaged by GOUP that, based on the experience gained in this project, UPBSN would become
the state's Center of Excellence, coordinating all land reclamation activities state-wide. UPBSN would
receive 5,100 Rs./ha base costs for implementing the reclamation. The Agriculture Production
Commissioner (APC), GOUP, would be the Chairman of the UPBSN Board of Management, and its day to
day operations would be under the control of a full-time Managing Director (MD). In preparation for
implementation of the pilot project, GOUP reorganized Board membership to include representatives from
key GOUP departments, SAUs, UPCAR, and NGOs. At Headquarters, the MD would be assisted by a
Joint Managing Director, and heads of Finance, Reclamation, Technical Services and Management
Services divisions who form a core management team.
The implementation of the reclamation program in the districts would be the responsibility of Land
Reclamation Units (LRUs). Each LRU, headed by a Senior District Manager (SDM) and supported by
field officers and administrative staff, would have the capacity to coordinate reclamation of up to 25,000 ha
per annum (totaling 150,000 ha over the six year project). The SDM would be supervised by the Deputy
General Manager, Reclamation Division, but operate in close collaboiration with the District Magistrate,
responding to him administratively. Fully staffed LRUs are already in place in all ten districts included in
the program. At Headquarters, to strengthen UPBSN's technical and social skills for effective project
coordination, GOUP has transferred on secondment a number of staff from other departments. The rate of
build-up of field staff in relation to the size of the annual reclamation program would be reviewed and
finalized at the time of preparing Annual Action Plans.
Annual Action Plans. Annual action plans would assist project planning, and implementation coordination
by UPBSN, monitoring by independent consulting firms on behalf of UPBSN, and supervision by IDA.
They would also facilitate year-to-year changes in the project components or design, based on
implementation experience. Independent consulting firms and UPBSN, in cooperation with other
participating agencies, would prepare action plans usiug a CPM system which would define for each
project activity the required critical path for completion and display the proposed physical and expenditure
targets for the following financial year (April I to March 31). Independent consulting firms would also
design standard formats for participating agencies to prepare and present their individual plans to UPBSN
for the preparation of a consolidated Annual Action Plan.
Environmental Impact. The introduction of improved land and water management practices would address
environmental problems associated with the deteriorated environments of salt-affected lands. However
with a much larger scale project an environmental management plan to further monitor to continue soil and
water quality monitoring has been agreed with UPBSN and RSAC. This will provide a better
understanding of the systems and a basis for responding to any potentially detrimental conditions that may
develop. Key elements of the environmental management and monitoring plan for the project are briefly
discussed below with more detailed account included in Attachment 9.
Land Improvement. Upgrading and/or establishment of drainage networks would improve soil conditions
and arrest or minimize continued degradation of land due to the accumnulation of salts within the catchment
area of the drainage network surrounding the reclaimed areas. Changes in the soil quality and land use
patterns would be monitored through remote sensing and ground surveys. RSAC would be responsible for



Annex 2
Page 16 of 17
monitoring the extent of physical and chemical improvement in land quality. This would be done through
collection and analysis of soil samples from reclaimed areas on a regular basis. Furthermore, RSAC would
assess the extent of reclamation and changes in land-use and cropping patterns by comparing aerial
photographs taken mid-way and at the end of project with those aerial photographs showing prior land use
for the entire project area.
This study would also assess changes in the land quality in areas of normal land adjacent to the project
areas served by the drainage network.
Ground Water Quality. Reclamation technology to be adopted under the project is not expected to
adversely affect ground or surface water quality as the irrigation water would be impounded in the fields
for leaching and crop growth and the limited quantity of saline drainage water would be diluted by the
large volume of monsoon rainwater. These conclusions are based on observations made in Haryana where
no significant change in water quality has been noticed after the reclamation of sodic lands over prolonged
periods. Based on data collected by the Groundwater Department over many years, it is concluded that the
increased abstraction of water through the limited numbers of new shallow tubewells proposed under the
project would have no measurable affect on the quantity of available groundwater reserves.
During the Phase II RSAC would also monitor the impact of project activities on groundwater quality and
availability. This would include study of water table depth changes, lateral and horizontal movement of
salts from reclaimed areas, quality of pumped groundwater, and drainage water quality in selected major
drains entering and leaving a reclaimed cluster. Detailed guidelines on monitoring methodologies have
been provided to RSAC and are available in the project file;
Biodiversity. Data obtained from the past three years in the pilot project have confirmed this and indicate
that there has not been any adverse impact on water or soil quality in the project area. Furthermore, the
pilot has had positive effects on biodiversity in the reclaimed areas. Since the impact on biodiversity is not
expected to be adverse in the future as coverage increases it has been decided not to continue regular
monitoring of this aspect but would be carried out in the last year of project implementation. This would
focus on identifying the degree to which plant, insect, small mammal and bird populations are re-
established after reclamation;
Diversification of Cropping Systems Incorporating Perennial Crops. The development of diversified
cropping systems to restore sodic lands to their full production potential would re-establish active
biological systems in the soils and enhance sustainability of agriculture while increasing productivity. It
would also stabilize soil surfaces now subject to wind action and reduce levels of airborne salt-laden
particulates during the dry season. The establishment of systems for fuelwood production on community
land, if extended over a large area, would provide the means of reducing degradation of public wooded
areas currently used for collection of these commodities.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). For overall M&E of the project three different types of activities have
been built into the project design. These include:
(a) Project Implementation Progress. Day-to-day monitoring of project implementation would be
undertaken by the independent consulting firms under contract to UPBSN. This would encompass the
achievement of established milestones and goals including assessments of improvements in the drainage
network, boring, pumpset installation, land development, and distribution and application of amendments
and seed, green manure cultivation, crop establishment, extension service support, and activities of
cooperating departments;
(b) Agricultural and Socioeconomic Impact Assessment. Independent consulting firms would also assess
the impact of the project on participants. They would evaluate agricultural productivity, income
generation, uptake of reclamation, changes in work patterns and other related socio-economic issues within
the project area. Regular assessment would be made of women's views of the project, ways in which the
project could be improved to suit their needs better, and the impact of the project on their financial status,
workload and nutritional status of the family. Agricultural productivity of land falling within the improved
drainage network funded by the project would also be assessed; and



Annex 2
Page 17 of 17
(c) Participatory Management. An NGO or other suitably qualified agency would be engaged by UPBSN
to undertake an independent assessment of the project's participatory management program on an ongoing
basis. Recommendations from this assessment would be used to improve the implementation of this
activity.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page I ofI 0
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
I.     Introduction. The project aims at poverty reduction planned to be achieved by reversing the land
degradation through reclamation of sodic lands and prevention of further sodicity. The project covering an area of
150,000 Ha would affect about 300,000 farm families, 75% of whom belong to marginal/small farm families living
at below subsistence levels. A substantial proportion of the candidate beneficiaries are currently landless and
expected to own lands as a result of the project intervention and take to farming anew. The beneficiaries themselves
belong to a number of sub-groups based on their differential endowment, gender, ethnicity and other regional
features. Thus the project directly relates to, and addresses the requirements of, the people, to the rural poor and
other social excluded sub-groups The challenge, however, lies in converting potential benefits into reality for these
families and ensure means to sustain these benefits over time. Besides, there are a large number of stakeholders who
would have differing degrees of influence and impact on project activities and outcomes. Hence, a framework for
participation of all key stakeholder groups was necessary to solicit contributions towards project design and delivery
mechanisms. To this effect, as a part of the preparation efforts, two studies were done. They are: (a) Social
Assessment7 (conducted by TARU, New Delhi); and (b) baseline study of the livelihood systems of the potential
beneficiaries. The former comprised beneficiary assessment, stakeholders analysis, social impacts and risks analysis.
The latter comprised a micro level study based on 1,500 sample households and a macro level study of some 50
villages employing participatory rural appraisal techniques.
1.2     Based on the results of the two studies and experiences of the pilot project, five principal issues are
identified as of relevance in the social assessment of the project: (a) the characteristics and distribution of the rural
poor and other socially excluded groups, and problems and prospects as perceived and articulated by them
(beneficiary assessment); (b) issues and concerns -- identification of key stakeholders, their perceptions/expectations
about project, likely benefits/risks/impacts and conflict of interests (if any); (c) design features of UPSLR 11 to
address the issues and concerns, to ensure that the project reaches the beneficiaries, particularly, the socially
excluded groups; (d) local level capacity building, including a village level PRA based site implementation planning
(SIP), to ensure ownership and sustainability; and (e) measures to ensure that where land contributions for the
upgrading of rural roads under the project become necessary, these are truly voluntary.
Beneficiary Assessment
Socioeconomic profile - Uttar Pradesh State
2.      Poverty. Uttar Pradesh (UP) spread over an area of 29.8 Mha is the most populous state in India
accounting for 17 % of the country's population, about 140 million, 80% of whom live in its 112,804 villages). It is
the third poorest state with a per capita income of US$ 200 and a poverty ratio of 42 % (41% in rural areas).
3.      Inequity in Agriculture land holdings. Three fourths of the population depends on agriculture for its
7 The Terms of Reference included: TO (a) identify key stakeholders including beneficiary subgroups; share the
project concept and components with them, and seek, understand, document and suggest methods to incorporate
their views and concerns into project design and delivery; (b) identify positive and negative social impacts likely to
occur for different sub-groups or beneficiaries as a result of project interventions; assess and prioritise impacts
based on their significance; and suggest measurs to minimize negative impacts and derive the maximum from
positive impacts; (c) ascertain and analyse key social risks, internal and external, to the project and measures to
address them; (d) draw appropriate alternative institutional arrangements in consultation/collaboration with
stakeholdrs to reach and work effectively with beneficiary groups/stakeholders; and (e) contribute towards planning
for human and institutional development, specially, of the participating farm families.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 2 of 10
livelihood. Of the total workforce of about 41 million, 72% are engaged in agriculture, of which 73% are cultivators
and 27% are agricultural laborers. The average size of agriculture holdings has declined from 1.2 Ha in 1970-71 to
0.9 Ha in 1990-91. The small and marginal farmers form the majority of farm households (88% i.e., 19 million) but
own less than 0.4 Ha of operational holdings, often scattered in plots. There are severe inequities in ownership of
land holdings with about 74% of the holdings accounting for 30% of the area. On the other hand, the minuscule 3%
of holdings of more than 4 Ha size account for more than 20% of the total area.
4.     Caste and religion reinforced inequity. The incidence of poverty in UP is highest among scheduled
castes, accounting for 21 % of the total population. An estimated 56% of the scheduled castes population in rural
areas was living below the poverty ;.ne in 1986-87, compared to 38% for other social groups. Scheduled castes form
a greater share of total population in Central, Southern (26% in each case) and Eastern UP (2 1%) than in the Hills
and Western UP. Scheduled tribes are negligible as a proportion of total population in the state (0.2%) and are
concentrated in only a few districts particularly in the Hill region. Around 83% of the total population of UP is
Hindu, and 16% Muslim, the latter being particularly well-represented in Western and Central UP. Scheduled castes
and 'other backward communities' together account for about half the total Hindu population in UP.
5.     Land holdings belonging to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes make up 16% and 0.2% respectively of
total operational holdings in the state. While the number of holdings matches with the population in the case of STs,
the share of total operational holdings belonging to SC however (16%) is significantly smaller than their share of
total population (21 %) and their share of total operated area is even smaller (10%). SC make up a quarter of the
rural population of the state and yet account for around a third of total landless households. Nearly half of all SC in
agriculture are landless agricultural laborers. Among other social groups in agriculture landlessness is less than
20%. Landlessness among SCs is particularly widespread in Central and Eastern UP where, given the legacy of the
Zamindari land tenure system, the distribution of land holdings is more skewed. Moreover access to land via rental
or lease markets is almost negligible; only 1.7% of SC households rent land holdings for cultivation. Of those SCs
who own land, 95% operate only small or marginal land holdings, and the average size of land holdings among SCs
is only 0.57 Ha.
6.     Gender inequality. The status of women in UP is of particular concern given a historical legacy of
discrimination. One of the key indicators is the female literacy which is a dismal 25% with a male-female
differential of 30% (for India, female literacy is 39% and the differential is 21 %). In rural areas of the state, female
literacy is only 19% with a differential of 33%. Female work participation rates have been recorded at only 12.3%
(22.3% for India). This, however, is a gross under estimation. In UP women are responsible for a large number of
activities which are categorized as 'marginal'. These include household level activities, fetching water and fuelwood
and extend to actual participation in a number of agricultural activities; often not captured by official statistics
despite substantial contributions. Women's relative lack of autonomy within the household translates into a more
restricted role for women in influencing decision making.
7.     Differences in religion and caste often reinforce gender disparities. For example, while only 32% of the
male scheduled caste population is literate in UP as compared to 48% for other males, the gender gap in literacy
rates is even starker among scheduled castes women, only 8% of whom are literate as against 23% for other women.
On the other hand, the female labor force participation rate for SC women is around 12% as against only 6% for
other groups.
8.     Social indicators. The literacy rate is 41.6% (25.3% for population aged 7 years and above) as compared
to 52.2 % for the country (39.3% for population above 7 years). The birth rate in the state (1991) was 36 per 1,000
persons; the death rate 12 per 1,000; and life expectancy at birth was 57 years for men and 53 years for women. The
infant mortality rate for 1992-94 period was 93 per 1,000 live births in the state compared to 76 for the country. For
the same period, IMR in rural areas of the state was one of the highest in the country at 97, the national average
being 82.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 3 of 10
Socioeconomic profile - Project Beneficiaries
9.     Poverty. The baseline study conducted by IIM, based on a sample of 1,500 households across the ten
project districts, reports that about 72% of the population are below the poverty line (defined by a per capita per
annum income of Rs 3,5338). The extent of poverty among marginal and small farmers is about 78%, it is 64%
among small farmers and 41% among large farmers. Establishing a direct correlation between land holding and
extent of poverty, the study has identified unemployment, under-employment, poor asset base and deficient capital
resources as the cause of poverty.
10.    Income inequality. A village has on an average 568 households. Of this, landless laborers constitute 5%;
marginal farmers 58%; small farmers 23% and large farmers 14%. One third of the total households belong to
schedule castes; a little over half to the backward caste and the remaining 15% are other/general castes. Average
annual household income is estimated at Rs 21,600 with a range between Rs 13,896 (landless laborers) and Rs
57,248 (large farmers). Marginal and small farmers fall in between with the figures of Rs 16,000 and Rs 28,268
respectively. In relatively terms, it so turns out that the top 10 % of the households share 43% of the aggregate
income while the bottom 10% account for a mere 0.50%.
II.    Inequity in Agriculture land holdings. A village, on an average, has a geographical area of 677 Ha. of
which 581 (86%) is cultivable and the remaining 96 Ha (14%) non-cultivable. Of the cultivable, mono-cropped area
is 131 Ha (23%), and multiple cropped area is 285 Ha (49%), and the rernaining 28% is pure sodic lands. Thus, on
an average, about 42% (28% pure sodic and 14% currently not pure but has the potential to become pure sodic) of
the cultivable area comprise sodic lands. Average size of a land holding is 1.01 Ha, range being 0.43 Ha (marginal
farmers) and 3.78 Ha (large farmers). Across the castes, land holding size is the lowest for scheduled caste
households (0.57 Ha); 0.84 Ha for backward caste; and 2.18 Ha for other/general castes. Of the total number of
households, 17% are landless; 57% marginal farmers; 17% small farmers; and 9% large farmers.
12.    Land utilization. Of the total land owned (average of 1.01 Ha) 78% is operational, of which, 17% under
monocrop cultivation; 61% under multiple cropping (56% owner cultivation and 5% leased out). Of the 22% un-
operated, 17% is pure sodic which along with the 17% monocrop area makes sodic lands a total of 34%. The
proportion of sodic lands is the highest among marginal farmers (20%) and the lowest among large farmers (15%).
13.    Problems and preferences. Results of the PRA exercise conducted in 25 villages reveal that the male
members revealed drainage/sodicity as a number one problem and were eagerly looking forward to the project for
not only reclaiming sodic lands but also prevent further sodicity. Road upgradation is ranked second in terms of
their problem as it restricts movements/access, particularly, in the rainy months. Upgrading the roads is a priority
item on their agenda. In contrast, the female members ranked schooling, in general, (middle/high school being
located at a distance), and, in particular, lack of separate schools for girls as a number one problem. Maternity care
facility followed by lack of private sanitary latrines, drinking water and unemployment as of subsequent priority
items. Drainage/sodicity, however, do not figure high on their priority list. But, as revealed in the Social Assessment
study, wo,men are reticent owing to their past experience with reclamation activities; and lack of exposure to the
potential benefits of self help groups. They are, hence, unable to visualize their role and resultant benefits from
being partners in reclamation and related activities and envisage the potential for group mobilization of economic
(and later, social) capital. Thrift and credit are felt needs but time availability, specially, for women in poorer
households, affect enthusiasm about the project concept. Experience from the pilot phase reveals that most of these
apprehensions gradually turn into acceptability of increased role for women in project activities.
sI US$=Rs4O



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 4 of 10
Stakeholders Analyses, Social Impacts and Risks.
14.    Stakeholders Analyses. The core of the project will continue to lie in identifying the beneficiaries of their
ownership of sodic lands, or the possibility of securing land entitlements for the landless families. Key stakeholders
for the project at the village level (identified through a Social Assessment study), hence, fall into two categories:
direct and indirect beneficiaries. The former include small and marginal farmer households and women. Some of
these households are currently landless and will acquire land owing to project interventions. Direct Beneficiaries
also include families allotted land in the mid 1 970s who will obtain defacto possession of land as a result of project
activities. The key expectation of these groups is land reclamation, enhanced/land entitlement and formation of self-
help groups. The expectations, however, extends beyond this, into, empowerment - social and economic. The
residual village population i.e., households not identified as beneficiaries comprise the indirect stakeholders. A
distinct sub-set are the leaders of the Gram Panchayat and government functionaries at the village level including
Lekhpal (revenue department) and Kisan Sahaynak (agriculture department). Given that the components of
agriculture extension, drainage and rural roads (proposed anew in the second project) extends the purview of the
intervention to the village (or villages) as a whole, this subgroup has a significant influence over the project
outcomes.
15.    The UPBSN as a primary implementing agency will invariably have to interact with villagers and village
level institutions directly and/or indirectly through NGOs. The UPBSN and NGOs form a key set of stakeholders
from an implementation point of view. The UPBSN staff on deputation have found the job during the pilot phase,
challenging and with increased responsibilities and decision-making powers, overall, satisfied with their job content.
The challenge, however, lies in scaling-up and creating and sustaining structures and mechanisms which will cater
to the large target group while assuring that linkages with external agencies (like irrigation department, state
electricity board and public works) are managed efficiently to convert potential benefits into reality. The UPBSN
recognize NGOs as their confederate without whom find it difficult to fulfill the desired objectives. The NGOs,
along with the UPBSN, are the two key role players in the project framework who will have to work directly with
the beneficiaries throughout the project cycle and hence their roles and performance are highly critical. The Social
Assessment study has identified as many as 20 activities (out of a total of 27 key activity list) where NGO is
envisaged to have a role with differing intensity, as against 25 for UPBSN. Besides importance and necessary
resource commitment required from both these it also highlights effective coordination between these two
stockholders as critical for implementation. Besides rigorous methods of selecting NGO partners appropriate human
and institutional development assumes importance to avoid a mismatch in vision and ethos of NGOs.
16.    Another sub-set of key stakeholders are commercial banks, regional rural banks and NABARD in the
banking sector'. Their importance lies in smoothening the banking operations of the village level project
institutions; providing support to possible and expected entrepreneurial activities by SHGs; and also contributing to
devising methods for proposals to ensure financial sustainability to project activities. Though NABARD views this
project as an appropriate forum to promote the SHG conccpt, the commercial and rural banks are concerned on
three counts: (a) inadequate staffing at the branch level coupled with increased operational resources (paperwork)
implying need for extra resources and staff attention; and (b) possible misuse of credit and resultant problems in
recovery; and (c) sustainability beyond the project duration.
17.    Other stakeholders include different line departments (like revenue, agriculture, horticulture, research
institutions and contractual partners including RSAC and intermediary NGOs.
' dealt in depth in the section on Credit Management.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 5 of 10
Key Social Impacts
Issues and concerns at village level
18.     Landless farmer households. This subgroup promises to be the most benefited category as the project
would address their day-to-day issues of livelihood by realization and reclamation of agricultural land. The project
will also serve as a vehicle for their voices to be heard in a group and bring appropriate assistance as envisaged,
without misappropriation. However, they are skeptical about functioning of heterogeneous groups since benefits are
normally cornered by powerful members of the group. The project, hence, will build their faith and replace the
current situation of despondence.
19.    Small and Marginal Ff3rmer households. This group look forward to better economic conditions, food
security and reduction in seasonal migration, but, harbor the fear of recovery and doubts of the efficacy of the
technology, in some cases, where one has not seen/heard about the effect of the technology.
20.     Women. Women in the proposed villages are in a situation of lovv awareness, inadequate realization of the
possible potential of the program, and are inclined to view the project in the context of these limitations
(opportunities). The important role of women in reclamation activities include those as family members involved in
reclamation and agricultural activities; as progressive farmers setting examples for other households; and as explicit
contributors to economic and social processes at household and village level. In addition to the above, the
promotion of SHGs as envisaged in the project, seeks to enhance their social and economic position. This do offer
promise for fulfilling some practical gender needs. The promotion of SHGs would result in garnering the strength of
women's groups. Thrift and credit, though a felt need, prevailing social restrictions make them skeptical about the
viability of such activities. Interactions with women from pilot phase project areas indicates that they are the most
likely to suffer from social constraints, traditional roles, work responsibilities; but are the most likely to benefit by
recognition as a separate entity and as managers of economic resources. Thie project will need to be inclusive in
making explicit the role of women in reclamation.
21.    Indi-ect beneficiaries. These groups are largely skeptical about the viability of village groups and
effectiveness of the reclamation groups. The social equations in the village sometimes influence indirect
beneficiaries into creating rumors and hence slowing down the progress of the project. Decrease in labor availability
is also perceived in some villages as a result of the project beneficiaries attending to their own lands and hence not
be available to work in others' fields, and the resultant increase in wage rates.
22.    Gram Panchayat. Although most Gram Panchayat' members welcome the project and show a positive
disposition towards its implementation, many of them covertly harbor reservations about the project functioning
well through new institutions created under the project, and in particular, the highly programmed nature of the
activities and their transparency which may not fulfill all the expectations of resource control for the Gram
Panchayat members. On the other hand, working with GP can be transform[ed into an opportunity.
23.    Kisan Sahayak. The Kisan Sahayak is the agricultural extension worker employed with the agricultural
department at the Nyaya Panchayat level. Their knowledge and experiences in the area, association with farmers
and understanding of village level dynamics makes them potential candidates for involvement in village
development interventions. Over and above all, they would provide continuity, beyond the project duration, and
hence, important from a sustainability point of view. Currently, many posts lie vacant as a result of which the
tO Gram Panchayat is a village level local self government consisting of Pradhan, Deputy Pradhan and members
duely elected by Gram Sabha, the village general body, and is meant to plan, implement and monitor the village
development activities. Every village(s) with a population of 1,500 (minimum) to 5,000 (maximum) mandatorily
will have a Gram Panchayat.



Annex 2
Attachment 1
page 6 of 10
existing staff has a higher workload. They are beset with limited resource availability for field demonstrations; rigid
field movement plans! itineraries; poor working conditions and transport availability; and, inadequate compensation,
allowances and promotion avenues, which could demotivate KSs and adversely affect agricultural extension
activity. This apart, Kisan Sahayaks are apprehensive about long tern project sustainability given, the temporary
nature of drainage arrangements/ solutions; ineffective supervision of leveling and bunding works; and, limited
subsidies and/or credit availability to farmers, but appreciative of the program intent and progress made/observed in
the pilot phase.
24.     Lekhpal. As a revenue department employee at the Nyaya Panchayat level, the Lekhpal maintains land
records, collects revenue, transfers land and arbitrates land disputes. Similar to Kisan Sahayaks, currently, many
Lekhpal posts lie vacant - as a result of which the existing staff has a higher workload. Coupled with this are poor
working conditions and transport availability; and inadequate compensation, allowances and promotion avenues.
Non availability of labor (as happened during the pilot phase) at the allotment site could mean that Lekhpal will
only indicate plots to project beneficiaries but not actually demarcate them. Further, vested interests could threaten
and disrupt land allotment work on occasions impacting on the project implementation schedule.
Issues and concerns at district and state level
25.     UPBSN Project staff particularly at the district and sub-unit level have risen from their own doubts about
the viability of the project institutions and interventions, to a stage where they are able to perceive a clear
acceptance by farmers and villagers. Challenges include: dealing with mis-apprehension of forcible loan recover
and land appropriation propagated by indirect beneficiaries in the village, of role-shift from implementor to
facilitator, effecting management through village level institutions. Complex nature of work and high workload may
cause some personnel to revert to parent departments.
26.     NGOs. They are aware that sufficient time and quality personnel need to be deployed, but, expect to build
up base capabilities of the staff by training them through the project. Areas of concern are: coordination between
UPBSN and NGO staff; skewed work schedule which is dictated by treatment seasons and advance preparations;
clarity, or otherwise, in organizational identity; limited influence in planning and implementation design; inadequate
job and financial security; and inadequate capacity, particularly, in select areas such as micro-enterprise
development.
27.     Banks. NABARD staff are positive towards SHGs as it is one of their mandate as well. But the rural and
commercial banks are apprehensive about: viability of SHG program, increased workload, inadequate staff strength,
and lack of skills/orientation for reaching and working with the (poor) people, otherwise termed 'non-bankable'.
Design features of UPSLR 11 to address the issues and concerns
Participatory Management
28.    The expectations of the direct beneficiaries extend beyond reclamation, into, empowerment - social and
economic. Realization and sustenance of the benefits, depend largely on the project's efforts towards enabling the
beneficiary households to absorb and sustain technical, institutional and management practices that the project
activities sought to instill. For this to fructify, participation, mobilizing benefiting communities for a group action, is
recognized 3s a key determinant. The pilot project's success in effecting participation was based on four basic
principles: (a) transparency; (b) equity; (c) accountability; (d) decentralized decision making; and (e) human and
institutional zapacity building. These principles will continue to be the guiding principles for the project. The
institutional framework remains more or less the same, but, aims at strengthening the institutions, specially linkages
among them.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 7 of 10
28.1    Water Users' Group (WUG). consisting of some 10-15 farmers, one of whom owning a pumpset, and
sharing water with others, for use in about 4-5 Ha would be the basic management unit.
their activities would include maintenance of field drains and link drains, input distribution and credit management.
Thus there could be as many as 15-20 WUGs in a village. Success in efforts towards inculcating savings within
WUG, to convert them into Self Help Groups (SHG), during the pilot phase was rather limited. Special focus will be
paid on this during the project.
28.2   Site Implementation Committee (SIC). Members of all the WUGs in a village, two members from each
household (a male and another female) are mobilized into a SIC, a General Body of the village, to address
particularly, the inter-WUG issues. This would serve as a forum for beneficiaries and project and village-level
functionaries to review project implementation activities as well as for technology dissemination, learning and
involving beneficiaries in taking and implementing decisions made regarding overall project management at
grassroots level. The Pradhan of the village Panchayat would be the ex-officio Chairperson of the SIC and an
Assistant Manager (a village-level UPBSN functionary) acts as its Member-Secretary.
28.2.1  In the ongoing project, SIC is an independent body. The project will establish SIC as a sub-committee of
the Gram Panchayat. The linkages with the Panchayat system are crucial for: (a) undertaking some of the key
project activities (drains and roads) which have a domain larger than the households and lands of the direct
beneficiary groups; and (b) lending possibility of continuance and sustainability to project activities and benefits
therefrom, after and beyond the immediate time-frame of the project as it enables access to other resources; and (c)
Panchayats have gained legitimacy in the wake of the Constitutional (73rd) Amendment Act and elections have
been held in all villages. Assurances that an appropriate Government Order would be issued to this effect before
negotiations have been given by GOUP. The project recognizes this as a 'risk'(a calculated risk) as the success, or
otherwise depends on the effectiveness of the linkage between SIC and GP.
28.3    Core Team (CT). The core team will consists of WUG leaders, Mvlitra Kisans, Mahila Mitra Kisans and
some key indirect beneficiaries (like school teachers, other influential persons, chairpersons of women self help
groups). It would serve as an executive organ of the SIC and will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
reclamation work done through WUGs and any other work that may be taken up by the SIC.
28.4    Mitra Kisan and Mahila Mitra Kisans. Some progressive villagers, both male and female, who are
literate, have good communication capability, and willing to spare time, will be identified by the SIC to serve as
Mitra Kisan (men) and Mahila Mitra Kisan (women) to serve as change agents/animators and facilitate an interface
between the project and farmer families.
28.5    Women Groups. PRA exercise revealed that schooling (lack of separate school for girls), maternity care
and drinking water as priority items on their agenda. Towards addressing tlheir needs, the project will enable an
access through convergence of (dovetailing) with other ongoing programs such as GOI's literacy campaign
program, DWCRA etc. Planned efforts will also be made towards training some village youth to serve as para-
medics i.e., auxiliary nurse midwife. Towards empowering women, the project, similar to the pilot project, will
endeavor at: (a) ensure that women are co-holders of all lands allotted anew; and (b) mobilizing women into self
help groups.
28.5.1  Women Self Help Groups are an institutional innovation with demonstrable success in facilitating
women's collective engagement in the development process. It provides space and support necessary to take
effective steps towards greater control of their lives in private and in society. They have the potential to enhance
capabilities across a broad front including functional literacy, savings abiliity, access to institutional credit and
microenterprises. Care will be taken to ensure affinity as the base towards formation of groups. This way, groups
will be homogenous and as many as the subgroups are in a village. Experience from the pilot phase indicates that
many of the SHGs can quickly reach to a level of maturity in terms of their functioning, deposit mobilization and



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 8 of 10
inter-loaning. Then, they look forward to setting up microenterprise for productive activities. Setting up of
microenterprises, however, demands an in-depth knowledge on the skill levels of members, availability of raw
materials and market. The NGO intervenors would be capacitated suitably to address this.
29.     Nongovernment Organizations (NGOs). The pilot project has evolved a demand led approach to
establish beneficiary participation as an integral process. This approach has resulted in sustaining beneficiary
interest and building up their capacities through active involvement in planning, implementation, monitoring and
maintenance of the assets created NGOs have been associated as supporting actors to facilitate and establish the
beneficiary participation process. While the major framework, of a catalytic role, will continue, the activity spread
would be broadened to include:
** Education & awareness to generate, as well as assess, demand from beneficiaries
** Mobilizing, and organizing beneficiaries into WUGs, SIC, CT
** Dissemination of technology
** Developing and effecting systems and procedures for management
** Ensuring beneficiary contribution
** Enabling the village level institutions in developing linkage with other functionaries and
agencies including with UPBSN.
** Mobilizing women into SHGs and facilitating in launching a savings and credit program,
as an entry point, and subsequently, in microenterprises development.
** Linking men and women groups with credit institutions.
i* Developing mechanisms for maintenance of resources and infrastructure created during
the project period.
30.     Provisions will be made structurally and functionally for the retention of identity and focus on quality (and
not merely on pre-determined targets) by NGOs. Women NGO workers will be placed in position to ensure that
women actively participate in reclamation activity, apart from their roles in Women Self Help Groups.
31.    Participatory Management Cell set up in the UPBSN Headquarters to oversee participation will be
further strengthened vvith a Joint Advisor, in the Head Quarters, and Project Executives, one each for every project
district and at least a third of them would be women.
Local level Capacity Building.
32.    The project recognizes the first two years of work in villages as crucial for preparing the village level
institutions and farmers to carry out the reclamation activity in a planned manner. Apart from providing technical
knowledge, this requires building institutional capabilities of the village level institutions by spending adequate time
and resources on motivation and training towards achieving group operations cutting across caste, class and
community barriers. Towards this end, the project has planned for training all the core team members (numbering
about 30,000), both formally and informally. Capacity building will be such as to enable the beneficiaries,
particularly, the landless laborers and marginal farmers, to work on land as its managers (and not merely as
laborers) -- optimizing their resources and minimizing risks. Special programs to train Mitra Kisans and Mahila
Mitra Kisans to enable them to undertake the role of technology transfer agents and linking them with the formal
agricultural extension system are also planned. Some literate village youths will be identified and trained and placed
as animators in the fields of boring mechanics, health and family welfare, and artificial insemination. The MK and
MMKs of the ongoing project will be used to impart education and awareness for the new village communities. This
apart all the NGO staff and PMC staff, under a training of the trainers mode, will be trained in: (a) PRA based site
implementation planning; (b) gender and (c) microenterprises. Renowned NGOs like MYRADA, SEWA, Sadguru
Water Development Foundation and Auroville Greenwork Resource Center would train and arrange exposure visits
to some select beneficiaries, participating NGO staff, PMC personnel and other UPBSN staff. Workshops for Zilla
Parishat Members towards sensitizing them about the project's components, particularly, drainage will be also be



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 9 of 10
held in the project districts. The participatory monitoring, as currently done by the SIC in the ongoing project, will
be continued.
33.    Inclusion, accountability and sustainability. Towards ensuring ownership by all sub-groups and
accountability, the beneficiaries will be enabled to prepare a PRA based siite implementation plan (SIP), one each
for a village. Collective initiative for individual and common good will receive particular attention, This will form
an attachment to a Memorandum of Understanding signed by the three principal actors -- SIC, NGO and UPBSN.
Once approved by signatures, this proposal will become the reclamation agreement that is the basis for activity
implementation. This will also help in serving as a baseline document enabling comparative assessments in future.
The elements of such a plan will include:
Site Implementation Plan
Village description, including location of the village, socioeconomic profile of the households,
land utilization pattern, extent of sodic lands, and common property resources such as village
pastures, public waste lands and their current and potential usages.
Objectives, participating household-wise agreed activities including land allotment anew,
securing the lands allotted earlier, extent of sodic lands (under different categories) proposed
to be reclaimed, drainages and rural roads (if any).
Inputs and costs. Physical inputs and services proposed to be provided by the project and
villagers including cost sharing and financing arrangements (particularly for borewells)
Benefits and indicators of success. A description of the benefits likely to accrue to different sub
groups as well as to the- community as a whole. Simple indicators as identified and articulated by
beneficiaries themselves.
Implementation Schedule, including schedule for delivery of inputs and services, schedule for
monitoring of the progress, success indicators and capacity enhancements.
Mutual obligations and responsibilities on the part of all the three parties -- SIC, UPBSN and
NGO. This should include issues related to water sharing, water pricing, and the arrangements
for maintenance of assets after the project duration.
34.    Towards drawing plans for sustainability, a pilot sub project on Credit Delivery, through a collaborative
effort between NGOs and the participating commercial/rural banks will be launched in the two districts of Aligarh
and Pratapgarh. Essentially, NGOs would act as link-agents between self help groups (both men and women) and
the participating banks. And, NGO support would continue at least for a period of three years beyond the project
duration. Details are dealt in the section on Credit Management.
35.     Participatory Management. Towards providing for corrections based on continuous learning the project
will finance an evaluation of the participatory management aspects of the project after the first, third and fifth year
of the project's commencement. This evaluation will make recommendations for improvement in the design and
implementation of the program. The approach will be based on the latest developments in social audits. Social
audits is a portfolio of tools and techniques for measuring, understanding, reporting on, and ultimately improving an
organization's social performance.



Annex 2
Attachment I
page 10 of 10
Land contributions to farm-to-roads upgrading
36.    The project plans to upgrade about 700 kilometers of existing farm-to-market roads. These are existing dirt
roads which cannot be used during the wet weather and needs rehabilitation and upgrading. Though no new roads
are contemplated, yet, some lands may be required additionally for items such as culverts for the purpose of proper
alignment. The social issues surrounding the land acquisition were investigated thoroughly during appraisal in order
to ensure that problems of compliance with OD 4.30 do not arise. It was also agreed that, the project will follow
the approach taken in the Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agriculture Project (which became effective on ----) as regards
construction and maintenance.
37.    Traditionally farmers in the state give up land voluntarily and without compensation for road upgrading as
the perceived benefits of the improved road outweigh the costs incurred in lost land. Several farmers have expressed
that the benefits of road improvement were not restricted to market access alone, but, extends to health, education
and recreation facilities. Proposed road upgrading will therefore follow the state's tradition and as planned under the
Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agriculture Project. Essentially, mechanisms will be so established as to ensure that the
land contributions are truly voluntary, that undue social pressure is not exerted on individual land owners or land
operators, and that all related transactions are conducted in a transparent manner. The agreed mechanism is to draw
up a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the District Magistrate or his appointed officer in the
concerned district, the elected leader(s) (Gram Panchayat) of the local village and each and every land holder
required to contribute land for the proposed road upgrading works (see MOU). In the event that unanimous
agreement to contribute the required land is not reached among farmers affected, the road component in that
particular village will not be upgraded. Only when each and every farmer (who is to contribute land) has signed the
MOU will the proposed upgrading works will commence. On no account will there be any involuntary land
acquisition. All aspects of this component including planning, land contribution and implementation will be
discussed, and, necessarily endorsed by the SIC.
38.    The procedure to be followed in concluding each MOU will follow a specific sequence of steps. Each land
holder, including those without legally documented rights, will know precisely which land parcel(s) and how much
land he is agreeing to contribute, but will also agree not to claim compensation. Proposed road sections shall be
marked on maps, discussed in SIC meetings and marked clearly on the ground with survey pegs. The primary
concern is to ensure that the vulnerable elements of the community are not disadvantaged by the process of
voluntary land transfer.
39.    Under the independent M&E of project activities proposed to be carried out by an independent agency,
specific attention will be paid to monitoring the process of land contribution for road upgrading. Field surveys will
be conducted to confirm that the process of concluding MOU is transparent, that undue social pressure is not
brought to bear on unwilling land owners or operators, and to ascertain farmers' perceptions of the benefits they
expect from road improvement.



Annex 2
Attachment 2
page 1 of 3
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
NGO" SELECTION CRITERIA
1.     The project einphasizes a participatory management approach. NGOs play a key role in
securing 'participation' as they (along with the UPBSN) are the two key players in the project as
they have to work with the beneficiaries throughout the project cycle. The roles of NGOs are: (a)
identify and create awareness and educate; (b) mobilize communities; (iii) form local level
institutions; (iv) nurture & ensure sustainability; and (iv) ensure a sensitive disposition and
participatory process pervades all partners in the activities of the project. The experiences of the
pilot phase reveal the importance of, and the necessary commitment required from, NGOs in
ensuring success. Hence a rigorous selection criteria for NGOs to ascertain their suitability for
the project is critical.2
2.     NGO Eligibility criteria. The UPBSN would select NIJOs according to the following
criteria:
(a) A legal entity -- registered body under applicable State law.
(b) A secular organization with no affiliation to political parties.
(c) An independent governing body with no religious/political/government
representation.
(d) Functioning for a period of minimum of three years, at least in the state, if not in the
project districts, as evident by on-going activities.
(e) A successful/proven record of social intermediatiion -- mobilizing people for a
group action; working with women, landless, scheduled castes, tribals and other
less endowed sections of the society; engagement in agriculture and allied activities
desirable -- as evidenced by feedback from concerned stakeholders.
(f) Staff composition should be such as either already endowed or be in a position to
deploy appropriate staff (a third of whom should be women). Staff must know the
local language.
(g) A good record of book-keeping as evident by audited statement of accounts
for the last three years.
(h) A good rapport with government as evidenced by participation in government
sponsored projects. Should be familiar with govemrnent development programs
and be in a position for dovetailing.
(i) Free from litigation.
3.     Review and Selection Procedures.
(a) UPBSN will advertise in local dailies calling for eligible NGOs to submit an
iThe project identifies NGOs distinctly into two categories. One, grassroots NGOs responsible for
implementation, and another, intermediary NGOs enlisted for training, the formner and the UPBSN staff.
This note is confined to the grassroots NGOs only.
12 The ongoing project (UPSLR I) has enlisted participation by two NGOs, Sarvodaya Ashram and Jan
Seva Maha Kalyan Samiti. Given the experience and exposures (as a result of the project investments), it is
agreed that they will continue to operate in the ten sub-units currently associated with. For the remaining
wO subunits, they will compete with the new NGOs for enlistment.



Annex 2
Attachment 2
page 2 of 3
expressions of interest in a prescribed application form. The NGOs will provide, along with their
application, set of documents in support of the above listed eligibility criteria.
(b) Apart from the NGO identified through advertisement, UPBSN on its own may invite
applications from other NGOs working in the project districts.
(c) Upon receipt of the completed application forms the NGO is assessed. The NGO
fulfilling the eligibility criteria is required to submit a brief assessment note (format to be
developed by UPBSN) on one successful social intermediation project which it has completed in
the past three years. The UPBSN staff will visit the project sites and make assessment of the
NGO to determine if it meets the criteria.
(d) During the field visits, UPBSN staff will conduct a review which would include a
manpower assessment, the type and availability of existing staff to work on the project, and an
assessment of other resources which the NGO could bring into the project. The review will also
include aspects related to finance viz., annual budgets, sources of financing, extent of
establishment costs (not to exceed 20-25% of the total) etc. The extent of commitment will have
to assessed in order to determine the impact and the scale of operation NGO would be capable of
undertaking.
(e) Further ranking of NGOs will be made following a qualitative scale assigning points
on the following basis:
Parameter                                    Points
I. Willingness and capability to reach out and work with the rural communities  10
Sub-total      10
2. Experience oifgrassroot support, specifically:
- In the areas of land reclamation/agriculture/horticulture/irrigation    15
- In farmers mobilization/self help groups                                10
- In working with women                                                   10
- In working with landless                                                10
- Other community/rural development programs                              5
Sub-total      50
3. Methods/skills:
- Skill in PRA                                                             10
- Financial book keeping                                                   10
- General management skills                                                5
- Geographical orientation (project districts)                             5
Sub-total      30
4. Leadership & capacity building (of the staff)                             10
Sub-total      10
TOTAL         100
(f) NGOs not achieving a minimum of 75 points shall be disqualified. The criteria must
be independently assessed by at least two staff (one of them shall be from the PMC) with the
average score used as the basis for decision making.



Annex 2
Attachment 2
page 3 of 3
4.    Selection. The shortlist will require to be checked/endorsed against/by CAPART/CDO
before finalization. The final decision shall be made by a committee headed by the Managing
Director, UPBSN, and comprising, among others, JMD; Advisors of PMC, Training, Credit,
Media & Drainage; and DGM (Agriculture).
5.    Training orientation. Staff proposed by a pre-qualified NGO will be thoroughly
assessed and evaluated during a training orientation program. NGO whose staff have been
evaluated as weak/ inappropriate would be required to propose other staff for the project period.



Annex 2
Attachment 3
page I of 2
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
Use of "Pressmud" for Reclamation of Sodic Soils
Introduction. A brief description of sodic soils of the state has been given in Annex 2, Componentl.
Reclamation requires the application of a soil amendment to replace the excess exchangeable sodium with
calcium and occasionally to neutralize sodium carbonate, wherever salts remain unflushed. Gypsum and
Pyrite are two commonly recommended chemical soil amendments usecl for this purpose. For the last few
years pyrite has not been available for large scale use. In the pilot phase the project used gypsum which has
proved very effective in reclaiming sodic soils however transport costs have increased dramatically to more
than Rs. 1200/tonne. Assuming a 12 tonne/ha application rate for class C barren lands, the cost rises to
over Rs 14000/ha. Furthermore, the use of such chemical amendments rnust be followed by the
incorporation of a green manure crop to add organic matter to the soil and to complete the reclamation
process. Adopting this system one season is lost (to production of the green manure crop) which could
more profitably be utilized for raising a cash crop of cereal/pulses or oil seeds. It has therefore been one of
the objectives of the on-going adaptive research programme to look for a low cost substitute material that
has the required chemical and organic properties and is also easily available to the farmers. One such
material, "pressmud" (a by-product of sugar factories) has been identified.
Production. Raw cane juice has many impurities including suspended particles of bagasse (largely non-
sugar organic and inorganic compounds), soil particles, etc. which are to be removed before the juice is
sent for sugar crystallization. The clarification is done by either of two processes: Carbonation or
sulphitation. In the carbonation process the acid raw juice is neutralized with milk of lime and the excess
lime is neutralized with carbon dioxide. In the process the impurities precipitate and are filtered out to
produce "pressmud". The carbonation pressmud is reported to contain nearly 70% calcium carbonate and
11% organic matter and must be acidified to make it useful for reclamation of sodic soils. The 122 sugar
mills in the state of UP annually produce approximately 1.5 million tonnes of pressmud however, there are
currently very few mills using the carbonation process. Most of have adopted sulphitation for juice
clarification.
Composition. Like farm compost, pressmud is a soft, spongy, amorphous dark brown material having high
water holding capacity. It contains sugar fibre, coagulated colloids incIluding cane wax, alluminoids,
inorganic salts and soil particles. The composition varies widely depending upon the quality of the cane
crushed and water content of the filter cake. Analysis of samples of sulphitation pressmud (reported on an
oven dry basis) range in different constituents as follows: 45 to 75% organic matter, 1.0 to 3. 1% N, C/N
ratio of 14 to 35, 1.4 to 7.9% P205, 0.4 to 2.2% K2O, 2.7 to 3% CaO, pH 5.6 to 7.5 and Fe, Zn, Mn, Cu in
minor amounts. Moisture content varied between 52 to 80%. Coming out of the factory, the material is
quite wet but soon starts drying in the air.
Reclamation Utility. It may be observed that sulphitation pressmud is essentially an organic amendment.
Its utility in reclaiming sodic soils has been well established through research. Several experiments
conducted during the last decade and a half have proved its efficacy closely approaching that of gypsum on
the yields of paddy and wheat in rotation. Benefits on sugarcane and other crops have also been recorded.
Pressmud contains many of the nutrients required for plant growth and its utility as a source of nutrients
has also been tested on several crops. Favorable effects on soil properties in reducing salinity, pH, ESP and
improving organic matter and infiltration rate of soil have also been recorded. There are reports that
farmers on their own have been using pressmud to ameliorate their soils particularly in the western districts
of the state.
Constraints. There are a number of constraints that must be overcome before any large scale utilization of
pressmud for the reclamation and management of sodic soils. Unlike chemical amendments which have
fixed composition, pressmud has varying composition and moisture content which presents problems of
standardization. Testing routines for pressmud constituents and parameters have to be established so that
correct dosage of pressmud for soils of varying intensity of sodicity can be determined. As with farm



Annex 2
Attachment 3
page 2 of 2
compost, indigenous field-based composting methodologies must be developed to improve the efficacy of
the material. Currently the cost of pressmud at the factory gate seldom exceed Rs. 30/tonne. Bulk
transportation to the reclamation site would still keep the cost fairly low. Any centralized composting at the
factory site or elsewhere by other agencies may present serious problem of bagging and transportation of
the composted material raising the cost excessively
Demonstration. Farmers acceptance of the programme will require demonstration and effective technology
dissemination. On account of the cost effectiveness of the material, it has been proposed to introduce
pressmud to the farmers on 500 ha of sodic lands on a pilot basis in the current project. Simultaneously
refinement of technology has been proposed under the adaptive research component of the project.
Objectives. The objectives of the proposed large scale demonstration of pressmud on farmers field include;
i.     to use pressmud as supplement to gypsum.
ii.    to substitute the gypsum by the organic amendment.
iii.    to work out the processing needs for a standard product.
iv.    to work out cost of providing the material at the farm gate.
Methodology. Keeping the above objective in view, the following methodology is proposed to be operated
under the supervision of UPBSN staff. The raw pressmud would be transported to the reclamation site from
the nearest sugar mill on farmers own/hired trolley/truck in quantities as per requirement of the village
demonstration. Two composting lots will be prepared: (i) Pressmud alone and (ii) Pressmud supplemented
with gypsum as one part of gypsum mixed with two parts of pressmud. Composting will be done by
indigenous method like that of farm compost by the farmers themselves. The material will be stacked on
the ground in the open in low pile and covered with a polythene sheet to keep the material moist and
decompose in the generated heat. A couple of turnings will be given at monthly interval and additional
water sprayed so that the sample stays moist. It is considered that the composted pressmud would be ready
for use in about 3 months time. If the operation is started in the month of February, the composted
pressmud would be ready for use in the field by May/June.
A three plot demonstration would be laid out in the field: (i) gypsum alone; (ii) composted mixture; (iii)
composted pressmud alone; with adjacent, untreated areas serving as the control. If 50% GR. of the field
comes to 10 tonnes per ha, treatment (i) would be given gypsum @ 10 tonnes per ha; treatment (ii) will be
given composted mixture @ 15 tonnes per ha and treatment (iii) will be given composted pressmud alone
@ 20 tonnes per Iha. All other operations will be the same as per gypsum alone treatment as given under
On-Farm Development and Land Reclamation Annex 2, Component I and Attachment 3. In 30 selected
demonstrations the productivity of rice and wheat will be recorded. Monitoring of soil property before any
treatment and after wheat crop will be done as usual. Cost of material and each operation will be recorded
to work out economics. Raw and composted pressmud will be analyzed for basic constituents.
Specif cation of Pressmud. Pressmud as available from sugar mills has variable composition. Freshly
recovered wet pressmud will not be lifted. Even moist pressmud obtained some time after recovery often
contains more than 50% moisture. Tentatively therefore a maximum moisture content of 50% is fixed for
the moist sample and the rest 50% made up of organic, mineral matter and soil particles as specification for
procurement of raw pressmud from sugar mills. The composition is specified as follows:
Moisture               -      50% maximum
Organic matter         -      30% minimum
Nitrogen               -      0.8 to 1.0% minimum
P2O5                   -      2.0 % minimum
CaO                    -      2.5% minimum
Expected Outcomes:
(i)    Productivity of rice and wheat treated with pressmud alone closely at par with gypsum;
(ii)    Improvement in soil characters (tilth, infiltration, structure);
(iii)    Economics of using pressmud better than gypsum; and
(iv)    Farmers acceptance of the program.



Annex 2
Attachment 4
Pagel of 2
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
Main Drain Remodeling Plan
District     Length (km) by Capacity (Q)  |     Numberby Capacity       [ Area |Density
____ __    Q<5  15<Q<51 Q>15 |Total| Qc5  I5<Q<5 Q>15 Total| km2 |_m/ha
1 Aligarth     186     288      58    532    38       26       2      66   1347   3.9
2 Allahhad     482     223      36    741    116       16      2    134  1358   5.5
3 Etah         256      79      123   458    56        7       4      67   1858   2.5
4 Etawah       350      66       0    416    86        3       0      89   671    6.2
5 Fatehpur     83       12      35    130    21        1       2      24   473    2.7
6 Hardoi       198     142      90    430    39        10      3      52   1309   3.3
7 Mainpuri     194      9        0    204    31        1       0      32   603    3.4
8 Pratapgarh   620      82      80    782   167        8       5    180  2485   3.1
9 RaiBareli    1223     55      45   1322   406        4       2    412  1976   6.7
10 Sultanpur    468      79      175   721    139      40       6    185  1106   6.5
Totals  4060    1035    641   5736  1099    116         26   1241 13186   4.4
Q = cumecs
Maintenance Plan for Drains
(Financial requirements)
Rs. in Lac. (1998 costs)
Funding Requirements for Main Drain Network in the TEN districts of Sodic - 11
Years                 99/00  00/01  01/02  02/03  03/04  04/05  05/06
Funding requirement for 10 districts    -    45.60  104.00 193.10 269.30 269.30 269.30
Funding sources:                      __                                 ___
IDA (Sodic II contribution only)        -    45.60  104.00 193.10 269.30    -      -
Irrigation Department                   -      -      -      -      -    67.30  67.30
Rural Development                                                   -   188.50 175.00
Beneficiaries                                             _          -    13.50  27.00
Total financing                  45.60  104.00 193.10 269.30 269.30 269.30



Annex 2
Attachment 4
Page2 of 2
Maintenance Plan for Drains
(Financial requirements)
Rs. in Lac. (1998 costs)
Funding Requirements for Main Drain Network in the TEN districts of Sodic - I
Years                  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  02/03  03/04  04/05  05/06
Funding requirement for 10 districts   28.00  28.00  49.00  98.00  98.00  98.00  98.00  98.00
Funding sources:
IDA (Sodic 1)                          28.00  28.00  49.00    -       -      -       -      -
Irrigation Department                    -      -      -    24.50  24.50  24.50  24.50  24.50
Rural Development                                            73.50  73.50  68.60  63.70  63.70
Beneficiaries                            -      -      -       -      -    4.90   9.80   9.80
Total financing           28.00  28.00  49.00  98.00  98.00  98.00  98.00  98.00
Maintenance Plan for Drains
(Financial requirements)
Financial Plan for main drain maintenance work outside the Sodic project - I & lI(For whole of the state)
In Percent
Years                  98/99  99/00  00/01  01/02  02/03  03/04  04/05  05/06
Funding sources:                                                                         l
Irrigation Department                  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00
Rural Development                      75.00  75.00  75.00  75.00  75.00  70.00  65.00  65.00
Beneficiaries                            -      -      -       -      -    5.00   10.00  10.00
Total financing           100.00 100.00  100.00 100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00  100.00



Annex 2
Attachment S
Page I of 2
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
FARM TO MARKET ROADS
Classification of roads (wI respective lengths) in the State of Uttar Pradesh.
(a)    National Highways   2883 km         funded by Central Government; connecting the capital with
major regional centers and district headquarters
(b)    State Highways      9777 km         funded by State Govt.; connecting main centers
(c)    Major District      8870 km         funded by State Govt., connecting district centers and primary
Roads                              road network
(d)    Rural Roads &        85746 km       funded mostly by State Govt., partly by Government of India;
Other District Roads               connecting villages with growth centers, markets, panchayat
hqrs., consisting of intra.- and intervillage roads.
(e)    Total                107276 km
Details of unconnected villages in the area proposed to be reclaimed under UPSODIC 11
District    Area of sodic land  No of         of which Villages not     Road Length cost
to be reclaimed    affected        connected by               estimate
under UPSODICII  villages                                 required for villages
col 7
Ha        %        no of       total   above 1000        Km        RSM
total    affected   60%    population size
villages    Of     (24% of total)
total
Aligarh          12874      8.7       349       209          84            252        453.6
Allahabad         2846      1.9        65        39           16           48         86.4
Etah             19832      13.3      175       105          42            126        226.8
Etawah           14748      9.8       216       130          52            156        280.8
Fatehpur         2555       1.7        22        13           5             15        27.0
Mainpuri         19459      13.0      190       114          46            138        248.4
Pratapgarh       18076      12.0      442       265          106           318        572.4
Raebareli        27175      18.2      250       150          60            180        324.0
Sultanpur        28503      19.1      836       502          201           603       1085.4
Hardoi           3932       2.3        51        31          12            36         64.8
total            150000     100       2596      1558         624           1872      3369.6



Annex 2
Attachment 5
Page2 of 2
Road program proposed under UP SODIC 11 Project
District    % total land      Road length        Estimated Cost     probable no of villages
reclamation      proposed in Km      in Rs. M             getting connected
Aligarh                    8.7                 60              108.0                      20
Allahabad                  1.9                 13               23.4                       4
Etah                      13.3                 93              167.4                      31
Etawah                     9.8                 69              124.2                      23
Fatehpur                   1.7                 12               21.6                       4
Mainpuri                  13.0                 91              163.8                      30
Pratapgarh                12.0                 84              151.2                      28
Raebareli                 18.2                127              228.6                      42
Sultanpur                 19.1                134              241.2                      45
Hardoi                     2.3                 16               28.8                        5
total                      100                700              1260                      237
Road Standards
Sr.    Description              normal standards      Functional Standard       Remarks
No
open      Built up   Open         Built-up
I      Design speed in kmph     50         30        30           20
2      Formation width in       7.5        6          6           5             earthwork to
meters                                                                  95% proctor
3       Right of way in meters
desirable               18         15
minimum                 12         10         9           5
Radius of curve in meters
4      desirable                90         60
minimum                 45         45         30          30
5      culvert width in meters    7.5     full        5.0         full
out to out of parapets
6      minor bridges            4.25       7.5        4.25        5.5
7      surfacing                BT         CC/        BT          CC/          No BT
stone                  stone        without proper
drainage
8      Gravel blanket                                                           15 cm in poor
soils
9      Pavement width           3. 75m    full        3.00        full
10     Pavement Thickness      IRC min  IRC min  IRC min    IRC min            No granite
25 cm     25 cm      25 cm        25 cm WBM   metal layer as
WBM       WBM        WBM                       in NH works



Annex 2
Attachment 6
page I of 3
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
ROAD LAND AQUISITION
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This memorandum of understanding is made on ............................ day of .19....
corresponding to Saka Sambat ....................   day of   .19.... between
Sri .son of .................                                    resident of
............................................... (hereinafter referred to as "the first partly") and the Governor of Uttar
Pradesh through Sri ............   sub-divisional officer .............   (hereinafter referred to as
"second party").
THESE PRESENTS WITNESS AS FOLLOW:
1.     That the first party is Bhumidhar with transferable right of .......................... acre of land
bearing khasra No ...........  in village ....           pargana
.............................. I tahsil ....., district .
2.     That the first party hereby grants to the second party above said land for the construction
and development of LINK ROAD in the village ................................  for the benefit of
the villagers and the pu6lic at large.
3.     That the first party would not claim any compensation against the above said grant of
land.
4.     That the second party agrees to accept the above grant of land for the purposes
mentioned in clause 2.
5.     That the second party shall construct and develop the LINK ROAD and take all possible
precautions to avoid damage to land adjacent to LINK ROAD.
6.     That the first party also assures the second party that all possible measures would be
taken to maintain the LINK ROAD so constructed/developed till the Government of
Uttar Pradesh formulates the broader policy to maintain the LINK ROAD so
constructed/developed and will not indulge in any willful act of damaging it or
obstructing the movement of public and vehicles on the LINK ROAD.
7.     That both the parties hereto agree that the LINK ROAD so constructed/developed shall
be public premises.
8.     That the provisions of the MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING will come into
force from the date of signing of this deed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this deed on the day and the year first
above written.
Signatures of the first party:                       Signatu-e for and on behalf of the second
party
Witness:-                                            Witnesses:
I.                                                   I _
2.                                                   2.
(Signature, name and address)                          (Signature, name and address)



Annex 2
Attachment 6
page 2 of 3
PROCEDURE FOR SELECTION OF ROADS,
ASCERTAINING THE LAND REQUIREMENT
AND SIGNING MOUs WITH THE
VOLUNTARY LAND DONORS
I.     Executive Engineer PWD will prepare a block map using 1:50000 scale topo sheets & marking on
them surfacewise details of all the existing roads, tracks paths etc. in consultation with all the
agencies involved in road construction.
2.     Eligible roads according to the agreed criteria are then identified by the E.E. P.W.D. in
coordination w;th the Distrct Magistrate through CDO.
3.     E.E. P.W.D. then carries out a reconnaissance survey of the identified roads.
4.     Proposals are then submitted to UPSLR 11 indigating the road lengths1 their location etc. on map.
5.     UPSLR 11 & P.W.D. officers arrange field visits and public meetings with land holders & Gram
Pradhans to verify the willingness on the part of land holders to donate land as required. Public
meetings shall be well publicized in advance to give all those with rights in land an opportunity to
come forward and comment. Where more than one village is involved, especially where different
villages may have different views, public meeting with farmers from several villages may be
needed. Not only should the upgrading of the proposed alignment be discussed with them, but
also possible alternative alignments that they may suggest.
6.     Final selection of alignment to be upgraded is to be made jointly by PWD & UPSLR 11.
7.     Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) provides Sajara Maps to PWD.
8.     PWD carries out detailed engineering surveys, fixing pegs on the site and after verification,
prepares strip maps on "Sajara" sheets.
9.     SDM carries out joint measurements and, in public consultation with Gram Pradhans and the
concerned land holders, prepares a list of locally recognized land holders whose lands are required
for road upgrading, indicating the respective areas of land required from each (see Annexure
isAW).
10.    MOU should be signed by District Magistrate or his authorized officer and all Voluntary Land
Donors, before any bids are invited for the upgrading of the road.
I.    District Coordinator UPSLR Il/PCU will monitor this process, with independent M&E by Indian
Institute of Management-Lucknow



Annex 2
Attachment 6
page 3 of 3
Addforms as necessary per each and every village along proposed link road
Village Name:
PLOT No./SAJRA No.       NAMES OF LANDHOLDERS          AREA OF LAND NEEDED FOR            SIGNATURE OR MARK OF LAND
ROAD CONSTRUCTION FROM            HOLDER
EACH LAND HOLDER



Annex 2
Attachment 7
page I of 2
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
T'raining Plan for UPBSN, NGO, Line Department Staff & Farmer
F            r                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Target
Naeof          lntuto       uatin                                                           Yearlwise Number of Course,
Training Module                tie Day"i              HQSafFedSafFarmers                                                                       NGO Staff         I Line Dept. Staff
I    I I  IIIIIV              III   tII v IV          I        1t     "I L           IV   V    I      III IV I     I I I        I    VI
2Conflict Reslution, Teamn  MANAGE        2       tO  tO                180                                                                 20  tO                  410
Building & Communiction.
3  Teciog Meltd Need   IMANAGE              2       tO                    18IS                                                               20                       410
Assessment& FrOg. Planning.
4  Human ResurceMgmt. in  MANAGE            2       tO                         ISO                                                                tO                       410
diversity.
5Monitorig & Evaluation.  MANAGE          3       tO                               30                                                                                          60
6  ProjectManagement.        MANAGE         6        4   4   2             IS5  10   S
7  Reel Tech. Crop. Nutriernt   CSSRI      4 - 5    10       tO           520 260 520 260
Mmlt. & Water MngI.
8Survey, planning & OFD     WALMI    3 .4                                40  10  40  10
9  Horbcwlture & Forestry.    NDUAT        3.-4         tO                 40  20  40  20                                                                             too       tOO
10  Forage Production.          IGFRI        3            2                20  tO  20  tO
I I Medicinal & Amomatic       CIMAP         3            2                20  10  20  tO
Pluto.
12 PRA Based                PRAXIS       10      1 5                    750                                                               360  160
Microplanning.
13 Participatory Management. MYRtADA    4 -5        t0       tO           520 260                                                                360  180
14  SHG Management.             BIRD       4-0      10        10               520 260
IS  Micro Enterprise.           ATI         6       tO  tO                                                                                   360  180
16 Non Formal Education.        ATI         6           tO  tO                                                                                   360  180
I7 Financial Magt. &          ICCMRT         3           10       tO       20  10  20  tO
Accountancy.
8Procurement Procedure      UPBSN         2                             20  tO                                                                                      60
IS  Oifice Management. r      IMDUP        2 -3         30        30           120      120
20  Computer Training.          NIIT       4 - S    10        tO           30        30
2 1 Live Stockand Dairy         NDRI       5 -6                                                                                                                        160       160
22  Core Team Tmaining.
-Pre-Reclaation
-for1 7oing   UPBSN         1                                                      4,000   6.060   6.000   6,000   6,000
- 2od Trainig   UPBSN        1                                                      4,000   6.000   6,000   6,000   6,000
-Post Reclamation
- 1"t Training   UPBSN      2                                                       1,800   6,000   6.000   6,000   6,000
- 2ralT-mrrhg   UIPBSN       2                                                       1,800   6.000   6,000   6,000   6,000
23 MK. MMR Training.
- Kharj   UPBSN        2                                                        800   2,400   3,600   4.g00   6,000
- Rabi  UPBSN         2                                                        800   2.400   3,600   4.g00   6.000
24  Field Days.
Kh-nij  UJPBSN,       I                                                      4.000    6.000   6.000   6,000   6,000
R.bi  UJPBSN         I                                          .           4.000   6,000   6,000   6.000   6.000
25  Animators Tmoining.
H-1lth    NGO        4 -5                                                      200      200     200      260     2600
lt-rigMe,h.    NGO          tO                                                       200      200     200      260      2600
PumpsrrAferh.    KVK          tO0                                                      200      200     200      260     200
Al   KVK          IS5                                                      400      600     600      600      600
26  Trainingof coaches        MANAGE         IS5                             5   5   5                                                                                   3    5   5
27 Maindrain muaintenance        ID          1                                                                                               360  180  360  180
oritotation t
20  Village t"ene enterpreneur friend        6                                                         60      60       60      120
29  Food processing                          3                                                         60      60       60      120
30  Marketingavorkshop                       2                                                        100     100      100     too
31I Misc. Training asper need.  National    7-t0    tO0  20  20  20        30  50  00  50                                                     30   35  35  30          tO  IS  tO 1s 0
1nst.
32  Exposure Visits.
a)In Country.
lnterSn6 Unit  UJPBSN        I                                                        860    1,260   1,200    1,200   1,200
leterDw.r.   UPBSN        t                             400 600 600 600            800    1,260   1,260    1,200   1.200
lnSratel UPBSNl    3 -4        I5  I3   5   I3       100 3125 3125 3125         200      300     300      300     300                             20   30   3 0   30
Ourmade State    NGO      7-10    tO   S   15  15         200 300 300 300            600      900     900      900     900  100, IOIISO SO0   5        60   90   90   90
Ea7,rumr' rii oeekrxiii            7                                                                  50      50       60   .60
6) Abrod.
Irresairm A*rlan,logy    MSU       Coarse    5   5                   2   2                                                                                       5    5
(ISA
I-d &O Warer Mngt.   ILRI       Course    2   2                    2   2                                                                                       2    2
larmmekld rresoan    IIRR       Coarse   10  tO                        1 5  IS                                                                                 S   5
Philtppmes.
W;lxNrelo-k Trg.           UISA  Cous       2    1
Hnr,icnlor-eDraiae EFqnt & Iuae   Course    2   2                     tO  to                                                                                       5    5
SHGIP-'1-iri.ris, Ape   aaoCnM"e.   Coarse I             10  10 tOto tot    10                                                                                    5    5
A4balia cmomagi            Coure 
LI-raiern, :rainoitgfO-    USA     Caus                                                                                                                          4
Trai,rrr utnriig~  USA       Course    2                                                                                                                   2 0 



Annex 2
Attachment 7
page 2 of 2
Training Plan for lD., R.SA.C., U.P.C.A.R., Panchayat & PWD
Si.              Nameof                    I             |uin  D                                                       Yewie Numoer of Courses
No.           Training Module                              (inDas) I            ID.                  U'CARR                   f RSAC                  P yaRai            I         PWD
I                                 I                  I*III * II_   livI v I, I  11 1I                         Y IV   V I  11 I1IIIIVI V      I    111I1II  IVY  I ,I11  ,,           IIVI  v
I   ll _p imp_van                          WALMI             5-6     50        so
2   P nicpay MnuAneAt                       PRIYA            5-6          50        50
3   Pwtiposy loicn management                ASCI            5-6     50        50
4   Computer training                        NIIT            5-6          50        50
S   Mnmsgnsontorhdpanjad                   NAARM            15-20                                   I         I
6   Mmagcnt of  o reffad mail               CSSRI           15-20
7   Computr bncd stlistical analysis      MANAGE            15-20                              I   s   6   5
S   Trainingosryta=alyIpb                   TNAU            15-20                                   3   2   2
9   Managent ofhigh RSC & siin              CSSRI           15-20                                   3    I
10   Poth     nclvestchn yofyormatic        CIMAP           15-20                                   2    I
II   Estimation of physiological indices    CSSRI           15-20                                   2
12   Estimation ofe sencial oil & quality   CIMAP           15-20                                   2
of_  stoic plat
13   Physica & chltical analysis of odic     CSSIU          15-20                                   2    2    2
wlt
14   Managemtn of cepping systan            CSSRI           15-20                                   2    2    2
IN   Disillumttalnd cartogaphy               RCC              15                                                        4
16   Mtctdof RSdauta. itnttiot,             CSR9              15                                                        2
17  U eofGIS                                RRSSC             15                                                            4
is   Modllingusingr emotesenirgJ&            NUT              15                                                            2
GIS
19  Imageprooeaing                          RRSSC             I5                                                        4
20   Snlt-nffnecd soils cwnrcteiion           IIRS            15                                                                  2
21   Analytical mats& data                   CSSRI            15                                                                       2
intonprotatios ofsoilb
22   Gtundacr quality & impac               CGWB              7                                                              4
assesment
23   Ueoofcotmpulerformodelling GW          WRTDC             15                                                                  3
mt'gt & d&vpt
24   Conj.ncwivo use meOtodologim of        CGWB              15                                                                       3
-anac tontr nod
gtoundtoter tvoid ,,dvitnritnontal di p*Wion
25   Stmpling procsr & dmignt                IASD             7                                                         4
26   Mehoaor ftaistical ndlysis              IASD             7                                                              4
27   Lat tcclthniquea in road building &   U. Roorki         15-20                                                                                                         OIs 50  50
tquilmitirt
25   Taining oftgan panchtyat                              Smsiot                                                                                116
29  Training of block panchlayt                            Sessions                                                                              Is
30   Training odisttict pantayt                            Sesion                                                                                2
In aruntry
3 1   L,l1 ur Srw pnnct yat rpresenaiee                      4-5                                                                                 5n   50
32   Drainge exeutioAhmainteaunce   |  LRIU Nethra1nt    Course       5   10   5
3   Monitoting& wvalution ofrnrchh        IOWA USA          Cour, 
projct
34  Compuatr simulatin modeling           IOWA, USA         Coune                              2         I
35  Walr managemenl t                     UISS. IantI       Counc                                   2    I
36  lntanredmethodfan    ilrchtantion   T ISA A     ia      Courx 
37  Gensisof odicroil                     USSSL, USA        Coune                                   I
36  Imprving reclamaion efficincy         VISS. bir         Counrs                                  I    I
thtogh modeling
39   Screeningofogemplom frr sit         ISA. Austia        Courn                                   I
iol.tafttu
40   Advancad GIS & ilegration of            ESRI           Coure                                                       2         2
41   AdvncG(iPS&daa msgation                  ISU           Cors                                                            2
42   Us of nliinty imntrsmnt dcveslpd        USSL           Courn
by US. soil salinity nbb
43   l scoraslt-movamano  modolt             USSL           Coune
developed by USSL
44     odlling iroundssd r            |       IW            Coune                                                            2
45  Imp[ctmont o  molion                      ISU           Coune                                                                 2
46   Study tour fo oflicenr                 SAARC           Couna                                                                                4    4
Note: Institutions mentioned are only indicative and may change depending on availability and suitability of staff during project
impimentation



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page I of 6
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
Summary of Priority Topics for Adaptive Research
Area of Research            Objectives of the           Main Treatment              Possible Implementing        Possible Impact Points       Review and Reporting
Experiments                                            Institutions                                              Arrangements
A. Development of food      A-I Introduction of more    Four diversified cropping   NDUAT; CSAUAT, RBS           Development of alternative    Submission of six month
cropping system for sodic   remunerative and            sequences including cereals,   College; AAI; KVK,        diverse cropping systems     reports, half yearly review
soils                      reclamation accelerating    legumes, oilseeds an         Sultanpur                    that are economically more    by UPCAR: biannual review
crops in the cropping system   vegetables depending upon                             viable and achieve greater  by an outside expert
after growing rice-wheat-    the degree of improvement                               soil improvement
dhaincha (GM) for first two    brought about through rice-
years on C class sodic soil  wheat GM cropping systems.
A-2 Development of low      Locally available potential    NDUAT; RBS College; AAI;   Development of low cost    Submission of six month
cost integrated technology  organic materials such as   KVK, Sultanpur               reclamation technology      reports half yearly review by
for reclamation of sodic soil   FYM, presumed, water                                involving greater use of     UPCAR; biannual review by
hyacinth, sewage sludge and                              organic materials in        an outside expert
paddy straw to be tried alone                            combination with minimal
as well as along with                                    gypsum doses
gypsum in different doses
A-3 Determination of Zn and  Three different levels of  NDUAT; RBS College; AAI;   Determination of optimum      Submission of six month
Fe requirement for rice-   ZnSO4 and FeSO4 be          KVK, Sultanpur                requirement of Zn and Fe for  reports, half yearly review
wheat-GM cropping system    studied in rice-wheat-GM                                 rice and wheat crops for    by UPCAR; biannual review
in sodic soil              system                                                   higher yields in sodic soil  by an outside expert
A-4 Development of          Different combinations of  NDUAT; RBS College; AAI;   Sustainability of intensive    Submission of six month
integrated nutrient        organic manure (like FYM,   KVK, Sultanpur               cropping and maintenance of  reports, half yearly review
management of important    pressmud, green manure),                                  high soil productivity      by UPCAR; biannual review
cropping systems in sodic  biofertilizers (like rhizobium                            without any deciine in crop    by an outside expert
soil                       azatobacter, phosphate                                   yield and environment
solubilizing microorganisms)                             quality
and chemical fertilizers to be
tried with most important
cropping system of the area
B Horticulture tree crop    B- I Nutrient requirement of   Three varying doses of N, P,  NDUAT; Faizabad; AAI,   Determination of optimum    Submission of six month
system on sodic soils       selected fruit trees in sodic    Zn and Fe keeping K as  Allahabad RBS College, Agra  requirement of N, P, Zn and   reports, half yearly review
soil                       common dose, to be tried                                  Fe for high productivity of    by UPCAR; biannual review
with aonla, guava and ber on                             selected fruit trees in sodic    by an outside expert
sodic soil at different                                  soil



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page 2 of 6
Area of Research           Objectives of the           Main Treatment              Possible Implementing       Possible Impact Points      Review and Reporting
Experiments                                            Institutions                                            Arrangements
locations using
recommended planting
technique
B-2 Suitable fruit tree    Three suitable models each    NDUAT; Faizabad; AAI,     Development of suitable      Submission of six month
models containing different   having combinations of three  Allahabad RBS College, Agra  fruit tree models that are  reports, half yearly review
species in sodic soil      important fruit trees of the                            more remunerative and bring  by UPCAR; biannual review
areas such as ber, guava,                               about greater soil          by an outside expert
aonla using recommended                                 improvement
planting technique
B-3 Intercropping with fruit   Selected important fruit trees  NDUAT; Faizabad; AAI,  Development of suitable   Submission of six month
trees on sodic soil        of the locality will be     Allahabad RBS College, Agra  more remunerative           reports, half yearly review
intercropped with                                       intercrops and fertilizer   by UPCAR; biannual review
appropriate combination of                              requirement with fruit tree  by an outside expert
crops including food crops                              system
(rice, wheat, maize) oilseeds
(mustard, sunflower),
legumes (pules, dhaincha,
berseem) and high value
vegetables (onion, garlic,
potato) in different seasons
of the year. Two levels of N
and P fertilizers ,vill be
studied with each intercrop.
These studies be conducted
on partially reclaimed soils
of those farmers' fields
which have been under
reclamation using rice-
wheat-GM system for two
years in Phase-I
C Aromatic and medicinal   C- I Production of medicinal   Three different aromatic  NDUAT, GBPUAT, RBS          Development of cost         Submission of six month
grasses for sodic soil      and aromatic grasses on C  grasses with three different    College (CIMAP to       effective production system    reports, half yearly review
class sodic soil           levels of gypsum and three    collaborate for evaluating  involving intercropping of    by UPCAR; biannual review
levels of organic materials    sodicity tolerance and oil  aromatic and medicinal   by an outside expert
with recommended fertilizer   quality)                  plants with fruit trees on
dose                                                    sodic soil



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page 3 of 6
Area of Research           Objectives of the           Main Treatment              Possible Implementing       Possible Impact Points      Review and Reporting
Experiments               _                            Institutions                                            Arrangements
D Production of fuel and   D- I Performance of Acacia   The experiment already    NDUAT                        Identification of suitable  Submission of six month
forage crop system on C    nilotica and Azadirachta    started in 1994 at NDUAT,                               multipurpose tree species   reports, half yearly review
class sodic soil of        indica on sodic soil        Faizabad on community                                   and its management practice   by UPCAR; biannual review
community land                                         sodic land to be continued to                                                       by an outside expert
arrive at conclusion
D-2 Development of trees   Three forest species namely,  NDUAT                     Identification of suitable tree   Submission of six month
and grasses system for     A. nilotica, C. equisetfolia                            and fodder grass            reports, half yearly review
reclamation of community    and E. tereticomis already                             combination for C sodic soil  by UPCAR; biannual review
sodic land                 taken up in 1994 by NDUAT                                                           by an outside expert
be studied with three forage
grasses i.e. para grass and
two endemic grasses found
promising based on survey
conducted by NDUAT and
NBRI
D-3 Performance evaluation   Three species such as    NDUAT                        Identification of suitable fast  Submission of six month
of some fast growing tree  Albizzia lebbek, Cassia                                 growing tree species and    reports, half yearly review
species on B class sodic soil  siamea and Sasbania sesban,                         planting technique on B     by UPCAR; biannual review
each with three planting                                sodic soil                  by an outside expert
techniques viz. 60 cm cube
pit, 90 cm cube pit, and 45
cm cube pit with auger hole
up to 120 cm depth, treating
the soil with 3 kg gypsum +
10kgFYM+ 100gBHC
per pit
E Exploratory Research      Screening of plant tolerance   Screening of different crops   CSAUAT, NDUAT, NDUAT   Fixation of tolerance limit of  Submission of six month
Project                    to soil sodicitv            and varieties (filed crops,  RBS College, CIMAP, AAI.   different crops to soil     reports, half yearly review
fruit crops, fuel and fodder    CSSRI and NBRI          sodicity                    by UPCAR; biannual review
crops, medicinal and                                                                by an outside expert
aromatic plants, dhaincha) to
varying levels of soil
sodicity under controlled
conditions
F Special Studies           F-I Minimization of gypsum   Four frequencies (0,1,2 & 3)  NDUAT                   Effect of flushing on salt  Submission of six month
dose for sodic soil        and four depths (0,5,10 and                             removal and reduction of    reports, half yearly review



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page 4 of 6
Area of Research           Objectives of the           Main Treatment             Possible Implementing        Possible Impact Points      Review and Reporting
Experiments                                            Institutions                                            Arrangements
reclamation by flushing out   15 cm) each at 72 hour                                gypsum requirement will be   by UPCAR; biannual review
of sodium carbonate salts    interval; another treatment of                         established                by an outside expert
through flushing           no flushing and flushing (5
cm depth) 10 days after rice
planting be included to
examine its effect on salt
removal; rice-wheat
cropping system to be
followed. EC of standing
water in rice crop and
crusting in wheat crop be
also determined
F-2 Reduction of gypsum    Three selected varieties of    NDUAT, CSSRI (Shivari     Identification of crop      Submission of six month
requirement through use of   rice and wheat - (1) high  farm)                       cultivars that lead to lower    reports, half yearly review
highly sodicity tolerant crop   sodicity tolerance with low                        gypsum need in sodic land   by UPCAR; biannual review
cultivars versus low tolerant   y ielding capacity, (2)                            reclamation and give better    by an outside expert
cultivars with high yield  medium sodicity tolerance                                economic returns
potential                  with medium tolerance, and
(3) low sodicity tolerance
with high yielding capacity,
each with three doses of
gypsum will be tried in rice-
wheat-GM system. Beside
reclamation effect,
economics will also be
worked
F-3 Reclaiming effect of   Typical farmers' fields     NDUA T                       Establishment of reclaiming   Submission of six month
dhaincha as a first crop in    representing original A and                          efficiency of dhainacha as    reports, half yearly review
reclamation of A/B class   B class sodic land will be put                          first crop in reclamation's of  by UPCAR; biannual review
sodic land                 under dhaincha, as first                                 A and B sodic land          by an outside expert
green manure crop in
summer season after soil
treatment with varying levels
of gypsum. There will be
control (without dhaincha),
rice-wheat-GM cropping
system will be followed for
two years



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page 5 of 6
Area of Research          Objectives of the          Main Treatment             Possible Implementing       Possible Impact Points     Review and Reporting
Experiments                                          Institutions                                           Arrangements
F-4 Use of high RSC waters   Five different RSC level  CSAUAT, RBS College       Appropriate method to use    Submission of six month
for irrigation            water, as commonly found in                            high RSC water with        reports, half yearly review
the area, will be used for                            minimum gypsum dose will  by UPCAR; biannual review
irrigation with different                             be developed               by an outside expert
cropping systems including
sorghum-wheat, pearl millet-
mustard, and rice-wheat with
three levels of gypsum to
neutralize 25%, 50% and
75% of RSC in irrigation
water will be used
F-5 Computer simulation   Salt and water balance     CSSRI                       Development of appropriate   Submission of six month
modeling of salt water    studies to know the water                              management practices to    reports, half yearly review
balance under reclamation of  flux and salt dynamics                             maintain salt balance and  by UPCAR; biannual review
sodic soil                during sodic land                                      water-flux within acceptable  by an outside expert
reclamation under different                           limits to ensure high crop
management practices and                              production in the reclaimed
development suitable                                  sodic land
models. Also to evaluate
UfNSATHEM model
applicability
F-6 Management during post  Three varying small doses of  NDUAT                  Long-term sustainability of   Submission of six month
reclamation period        gypsum (1,2 and 3 tonnes/ha                            sodic land reclamation     reports, half yearly review
will be added every year                                                         by UPCAR; biannial review
before sowing winter crop                                                        by an outside expert
after one year of cropping
F-7 Genesis of sodic soils  A few typical sodic land  CSSRI, CSAUAT, RSB         Proper understanding of    Submission of six month
areas be selected in Uttar  College                   causes leading to formation   reports, half yearly review
Pradesh for multidisciplinary                         of sodic soils and         by UPCAR; biannual review
investigation involving soil                          development of strategies to   by an outside expert
chemistry, soil mineralogy,                           prevent further spread of soil
ground water hydrology and                            sodicity in the Indo-Gangetic
ground water chemistry                                plain
Special Studies            F-8 Optimization of Gypsum   I. Ponding of water 5, 10  NDUAT/ CSSR1             Effect of post application  Submission of quarterly, six
requirement for sodic soil    and 15 cm.              Shivri Farm                flushing and reduction of  monthly and yearly report to
reclamation by flushing and   2. Flushing of ponded water                        gypsum requirement will be   UPCAR and its review by



Annex 2
Attachment 8
Page 6 of 6
Area of Research            Objectives of the           Main Treatment              Possible Implementing        Possible Impact Points      Review and Reporting
Experiments                                            Institutions                                              Arrangements
dissolving sodium carbonate    and no flushing.                                     established.                 Steering Committee.
through gypsum application    3. Flushing after 5, 8 and 10
flushing.                      days of gypsum
application.
F-9 To evaluate the
suitability of field kit                                                            Suitability of kit reduces the   Submission of quarterly, six
developed by Dr. Rhoades in                             NDUAT/ CSSRI                time and accuracy of gypsum   monthly report to UPCAR
project area for quick                                                              requirement thereby reducing  and its review by the
evaluation of parameters                                                            the cost will be established.    Steering Committee.
required to estimate gypsum
requirement.
F- 10 To develop suitable                                                           Development of appropriate
method of pressmud                                                                   method of pressmud
composting.                 1. Sulphuric Acid                                       composting.
2. Pit method               CSSRI/NDUAT/                Reduction in gypsum
3. Biodynamic method        CSAUAT                      requirement.                 Submission of quarterly, six
4. NADEP method                                                                      monthly report to UPCAR
5. Heap method                                                                       and its review by the
Steering Committee.
NDOAT  Narendra Dev University of Agriculture and Technology
CSAUAT Chandrashekar Azad University of Agriculture and Technology
CIMAP  Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants
AAI    Allahabad Agricultural Research Institute. Allahabad
CSSRI   Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Kamal
NBRI   National Botanical Research Institute. Lucknow



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page I of 12
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Introduction
The reclamation of sodic lands, as proposed would largely have a positive impact on the bio-system. The reduction
of sodium levels and the restoration of microbial activity in the surface horizons of the soils will restore the
fundamental elements of an active biological system and stabilize the soil surface. Despite the beneficial impacts
of reclamation there is the potential for negative environmental impacts to soil, groundwater and surface water
systems. These are primarily associated with the movement of salts that might leach out of the soils and into the
ground or surface water systems. The rationale for this is given below:
Soils: The focus of the reclamation efforts would be on the treatment of the soil surface, 15cm of the soils with
approximately 6-12 t/ha of gypsum - depending on the severity of sodicity of the soils. This will be accompanied
by the retention of as much irrigation or rain-water on the surface through the construction of field bunds and the
improvement of the drainage system to facilitate the removal of pond surface water and shallow sub-surface water.
Although the gypsum dissolves slowly it will in time release Ca++ and SO4-- ions into the soil water solution,
increasing the ionic concentration and causing the displacement of NA' cations from the clay edges on which they
are absorbed. The net effect of this is the temporary creation of saline/sodic conditions in the treated horizons.
With the ponding of water on the surface the salts will migrate down the soil profile leaving a relatively salt free
conditions in the surface horizons. In the absence of an artificial sub-suriFace drainage system to provide positive
control over the water table depths natural drainage is being relied to flush the salts out of the soil profile.
Depending on the chemical equilibrium that the salts encounter on their passage through the soils the desired
movement of the salts may or may not happen. For this reason long-term: monitoring of selected sites is essential, in
order to trace the movement of salts and develop a better understanding of the dynamics of salt movement during
reclamation.
Groundwater: Estimated quantity of 1.5 million tons of gypsum is expected to be applied over 150,000 ha. over
the course of the project. To this would be added salts already in the groundwater, nitrogen fertilizers, and other
agrochemicals such as herbicides. Total salt loading is not very easy to estimate, however it is certain that ions such
as Cl, F, Na, Li, B, K, S04 NO3, C03 and HCO3 will occur in the groundwater. Hence there is a need to monitor
the overall salt contents in the groundwater. Groundwater monitoring will also help to understand the chemical
dynamics occurring in both the saturated and unsaturated soil zones in conjunction with monitoring the soils.
Surface water: Potential sources of contamination of runoff water from reclaimed fields are gypsum and
agrochemicals used in land reclamation as well as natural salts from the s,oil surface. Seepage from shallow aquifers
into the drainage system may also contribute to contaminants to surface waater systems particularly as a result of the
maintenance of a positive water head at the surface during the kharif season and more extensive irrigation during the
rabi season. Environmental hazard are minimal given the high degree of dilution to which they will be subjected.
However monitoring of surface water for contamination is essential to ensure that there are no adverse affects for
downstream users and aquatic systems.
Results of Environmental Monitoring in the Pilot Project
The Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC), Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh was given the responsibility to monitor
the soil and water quality for the pilot project. The pilot project covers an area of 68,000 ha in ten districts of Uttar
Pradesh.



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 2 of 12
Soil Quality:
Soil monitoring was carried out in a total of 18 reclamation sites in the ten districts since 1995. At each site twenty-
four soil monitoring plots were selected, twelve on reclaimed areas and twelve on non-reclaimed areas with four
plots from each of the land classes. The location of the plots in the non-reclaimed areas were selected within 50
meters from an improved field drain. The soil at each site were sampled at depth intervals of 0-1 5cm, 15-30 cm,
and 30-60 cm and were analyzed for pH, EC, Ca, Mg, Na, and SAR. Three replicates of soil samples were taken
from each plot. A total of 3,888 soil samples were collected every year.
The general conclusions of the monitoring were as follows:
*   In several areas of 18 reclamation sites, effects of reclamation have been positive. Decrease in Na
concentrations and EC values are indicative of positive effects of reclamation. The EC and pH values have been
lowered by I to 2 units at several locations resulting in significant increases in paddy yields. But in several
other areas the effects of reclamation have been mixed and no clear conclusions can be drawn at this stage.
*   For non-reclaimed soils, the objective was to assess the impact of drainage in improving soil sodicity. There
were no clear effects of drainage in the improvement of sodicity although two plots in the Allahabad district did
show signs of improvements.
*   Data on trace elements show that flucride, zinc, and lithium are present in very low concentrations.
The general conclusions from the three year data analyses indicate that reclamation of sodic lands has resulted in
positive impacts on the agro-ecosystem. The data show that sodicity conditions in the reclaimed areas improving
and soil quality of the root zone improving. However, future efforts should be made by the RSAC to conduct
thorough analysis of soil quality data by considering other qualitative combinations of EC/SAR/pH. Data should
be analyzed statistically to draw conclusions on significant differences between soil classes and soil depths. RSAC
must re-examine their laboratory procedures for various chemical analysis to insure quality control and assurance.
Some of the analytical procedures currently used for certain analyses are not appropriate.
Groundwater Quality
RSAC has collected data on groundwater quality using open wells, piezometers, and tubewells. Only those open
wells were selected for groundwater sampling which were either in the middle of reclamation areas or were in the
close vicinity to the reclamation areas. Seventy piezometers were installed at various depths in the reclaimed areas
for groundwater quality monitoring. In addition to piezometers and open wells, certain number of tubewells were
also selected for groundwater quality monitoring. It should be noted that only two years data from piezometers and
tubewells are available as of now. It may take a much longer time for Na to reach deeper groundwater systems
under slowly permeable soils if any. Therefore, this analysis is considered incomplete. In addition to this, high
variability in water quality parameters has been observed between each sampling indicating a complex groundwater
flow system. Also, the groundwater flow system covers a much larger area relative to the area being reclaimed in
the ten districts. Therefore, the causes for the variability in the groundwater quality data could be from many
sources.
Water samples were collected in the pre-monsoon (May-June) post-monsoon (September-October) periods. During
post-monsoon period it was observed that Na concentration was decreasing (indicating the effects of dilution due to
recharge from monsoons) whereas, at other times Na concentration was increasing (indicating the effect of Na
leaching). Open wells may not be the best indicators to determine the effects of reclamation on groundwater quality
but provide some useful hints in observing the overall quality of groundwater..



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 3 of 12
Similar trends were observed in the piezometer water samples collected between pre-monsoon season of 1996 to 97.
These piezometer data can also conclude the leaching of Na to groundwaLter from the reclaimed areas but due to the
presence of subsurface drainage system or subsurface drainage gradient, Na ions are eventually flushed out from the
groundwater system to the main drains or rivers in the area. This is also confirmed by data collected from
tubewells.
Long-term data on groundwater quality were collected by the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal which
show clearly that reclamation has no negative impacts on groundwater quality. If surface and natural subsurface
drainage systems in the area are working well, the reclaimed salts will leach to the top of the shallow water table and
will eventually be taken to the main drains and rivers by the field drains. This will result in no long-term negative
impact on groundwater quality. The pumping of groundwater by tubewells in the area does cause dispersion of
leached Na in the groundwater, therefore long-term monitoring of the groundwater is recommended before final
conclusions are drawn.
Overall, it can be concluded that there could be seasonal effects on groundwater quality. If surface and subsurface
drainage systems in the reclamation areas are functioning well, the chances that sodic reclamation activity will
negatively impact groundwater would be reduced.
Conclusions on Soil and Ground Water Quality Data and Recommendations
As of now, only three years of data are available for soil and groundwater quality analysis. There is a need for
more data and it is recommended that ongoing activities on soil quality and groundwater monitoring in the pilot
project be continued. The conclusions drawn at this stage are quite preliminary in nature as there is a large
variability in data. Some reclamation sites show improvements whereas other sites show no improvements. The
soil-water system of sodic soils is very complex. The levels of sodicity aLnd hydraulic conductivity's are quite
variable from plot to plot and within plots. Although some improvements in soil quality have been observed at a
certain number of sites but long - term data would be required to arrive at final conclusions.
Another complexity of the subject is the process of soil genesis. Some of the Na+ ions are released back to the
soil-water system by sand fractions of sodic soil minerals during reclamation process due to hydrolysis. The
hydrolysis of sand minerals can occur when soil - water conditions are near saturation for extended period of time.
Data on groundwater quality indicate that no negative impacts of reclamation have been observed so far but long-
term data are required. There is continuous dilution of Na, EC, and TDS in groundwater due to the inflow of fresh
groundwater during non-monsoon periods from nearby areas and salts are moved downward along the hydraulic
gradient. The increase in Na, EC, and TDS in open wells and piezometer water samples after monsoons indicate the
effect of groundwater recharge and flushing of dissolved salts to lower depths because of monsoon rains.
Surface Water Quality
Two factors could affect surface water quality. First, the surface run-off from reclaimed lands could carry gypsum,
pyrite, agro-chemicals, and other natural salts to drains. Second, lateral subsurface drainage flow from shallow
groundwater tables could also drain back to the drains. All major drains in the pilot project area were sampled
before and after monsoons including certain number of field drains. A total of 140 surface water samples were
collected in 1995, 133 in 1996, and 122 in 1997. These water samples were analyzed for pH, EC, C03, HCO3, Cl,
Ca, Mg, TDS, Na, K, Li, S04, F, P, N03, Zn, B, and E-coli.
It has been reported that during pre-monsoon periods, link and field drains were mostly dry and water samples were
collected from stagnant pools. In post - monsoon periods, surface drain water samples are available. Three years of
data on surface water monitoring indicate that salt concentrations in surface water are well within the permissible
limits of water quality parameters and overall quality of surface water has not been affected by the reclamation



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 4 of 12
activity. In 1996, increased Na concentration in surface water was observed. This Na may have been washed from
unreclaimed areas as well during monsoon flooding. During monsoon flooding, reclaimed as well as nonreclaimed
areas get completely flooded and water mixing occurs over the entire area.
A recent report prepared by the RSAC indicated very low S04 concentrations were observed in the drain water.
This shows that linkage between the field, link, and main drains may be poor and improvements are needed. Also,
K, P04-P and N03-N were observed in the drain water samples. This indicates the need for future sampling for
agricultural chemicals especially nitrogen fertilizers in surface waters for limited number of samples. Also,
increased number of E-coli bacteria were observed in drain water which is an indication of improved biodiversity in
the area.
In conclusion, three years data on surface water indicate presence of salts but overall water quality is not adversely
affected due to reclamation activity.
Biodiversity
The main objective of this study was to monitor the biodiversity in reclaimed areas to investigate the changes in
biological diversity (plant, insect, small mammal, and bird population ) before and after the reclamation activity.
The National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), Lucknow was given the task to conduct the biological surveys in
years 1, 5 and 11 of the pilot project. The year I survey was conducted prior to reclamation activities, for fauna,
flora, and microbial biomass or organic contents of the soil. Second survey is currently underway.
In order to observe the changes in biodiversity, a biological survey was conducted in 1996 in three districts
(Sultanpur, Raebarely and Pratapgarh), two years after the reclamation. This survey was conducted extensively.
The crops as well as weeds were identified. Several biological parameters were evaluated for floral ecology. The
results of this 1996 study indicate that reclamation activity has created positive conditions for biodiversity activity.
The total soil organic rnatter has improved, insect eating bird population has increased and abundance and
frequency of fauna.
Environmental Management Plan for the Project
The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and environmental monitoring plan is to continue with
the soil and water quality monitoring that has been carried out so far but with improved sampling and quantitative
analyses. Based on the results of the pilot project it has been concluded that biodiversity of the areas will improve
after soils are reclaimed . Therefore, it has been decided not to continue with monitoring the impact on biodiversity
in this project.
The project aims to reclaim 1,500,000 ha of sodic soil, about two and half times the area of the pilot project. This
additional reclamation activity in the area will need to consider short-term and long-term effects of reclamation on
the environment. The use of gypsum to decrease sodicity, on a much larger area, may increase the movement of
sodium to surface and groundwater bodies of the area. The results of the pilot project indicate that negative impacts
on surface and groundwater quality are minimum because reclaimed areas in a given district are relatively small and
scattered. But in any case, either the surface drains or underground aquifer systems are the potential sinks for the
leaching of salts after reclamation and quality of these two water sources may decrease. Since the proposed project,
will reclaim much larger area, a sound and well thought EAP for the project is proposed for monitoring the quality
of groundwater and drain water.
In the proposed project it is estimated that about 1,500,000 tons of gypsum (at a rate of approximately 10 tons / ha)
will be applied to the land over a period of six years. This reclamation activity in the area will create much larger
additional volume of salts available for leaching to surface and groundwater sources of the 10 district areas. As the
agricultural production systems become more intensive and diversified in the reclaimed areas, there is a possibility



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 5 of 12
of leaching fertilizers and pesticides into the water bodies of the area. These possibilities of water contamination
will need the strengthening of the monitoring program for surface and gromund water quality. The monitoring
program would track the movement of salts through the soil profile and to the groundwater. The monitoring
program is designed to understand the dynamics of salts and water in the saturated and unsaturated zones of soil as
well. Monitoring program would verify if reclamation activity has any adverse effects on water quality.
The reclamation activity will require the drilling of tubewells in the project area as a source for irrigation water.
The State Groundwater Department has the responsibility to estimate the giroundwater potential in the U.P. In order
to meet the crop-water requirements, these tubewells will run for several hours a day and for about 8-10 days in a
month except during the monsoon period. The proposed project will withdraw water from the aquifers for
irrigating additional 150,000 ha. With respect to the availability of the groundwater, the additional irrigation water
pumped by the tubewells will not affect the overall utilizable groundwater reserves in the region significantly. The
total pumping capacity of the Pilot project and proposed Sodic - 11 project will not exceed 2,000 MCM compared to
the available groundwater storage of about 47,000 MCM in U.P. But the additional reclamation activity may
increase the groundwater development in some project districts close to 50%. Therefore, there is a need to monitor
the groundwater levels in the project area as affected by irrigation needs.
With the use of gypsum, Ca and S04 ions will be released into the soil slowly. This process will allow the
migration of sodium bound salts down the soil profile. In order to flush these salts laterally out of the soil profile, a
functioning drainage system, through the use of surface drains, is essential. Depending upon the chemical
equilibrium in the soil and functioning of the drainage system the salts may or may not be flushed out. Therefore, a
detailed soil monitoring program in selected sites is a must to understand the dynamics of salt movement in the soil
profile.
Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures:
The main executing agency, U.P. Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN.), will have the overall responsibility for the
management of the environmental monitoring program. The Remote Sensing Application Center will be
responsible for carrying out the monitoring program. Table I provides the essential elements of the Environmental
Management Plan for the project.
Surface Water Monitoring
Objective: The objective of this monitoring activity is to better understand the potential impacts of reclamation on
the quality of surface water draining into the natural constructed drainage systems, and also to ensure that
downstream users of drainage waters are not being adversely affected by tlhis water.
Methodology: RSAC will have the primary responsibility for this activity. A surface water sampling program
would be developed by RSAC in cooperation with UPBSN. Because of the difficulties encountered in the pilot
project in sampling surface water, it is strongly recommended that the utmost care and thinking be exercised in
selecting monitoring areas and drains for surface water sampling. Monitoring areas should be selected in a way that
drains are either passing through these areas or in close vicinity to these areas. Some drains should be selected to
represent a watershed type activity. For these watershed drains, data shoulld be collected on flow discharge and
quality. Multi-slot devices should be installed to monitor the flow rate of these drains. This kind of sampling will
give a better understanding on the total amount of salts leaving a given watershed where 15 - 40% of the area may
have been brought under reclamation. Surface water samples will be subjected to all analyses identified in Table 2,
which will also include a rapid test for E-Coli, as an indication of the degree of contamination with fecal bacteria.



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 6 of 12
Groundwater Monitoring
In order to understand fully the dynamics of salt movement through the soil profile and to the groundwater, it is
essential that at some selected locations the groundwater monitoring programs be conducted in conjunction with
detailed monitoring of the soil quality.
Objective: The main objectives of groundwater monitoring programs would be: (a) to measure water table
elevations, depth of aquifer systems, and quality of groundwater before and throughout the reclamation period; (b) a
detailed monitoring program designed to collect specific information on the movement of salts through the soil
profile and into the groundwater system; and (c) collection of all available hydrographs and water quality data from
existing sources.
Methodology: RSAC will have the overall responsibility for groundwater monitoring program. RSAC will work
with UPBSN in selecting the sites for installation of piezometers and in the selection of tubewells and open wells to
be used for monitoring. Again, all sites for groundwater monitoring must be in the middle of reclamation areas and
be true representative of the area. RSAC will also maintain a close cooperation with the Groundwater Department
of U.P. Government while conducting this program. RSAC has now developed good laboratory facilities to analyze
soil and water samples and procedures to maintain the quality control and quality assurance of analytical methods.
Groundwater monitoring program will consist of 4 components: (a) monitoring of piezometers installed in 10
districts during the pilot phase of the project; (b) collection of available data on hydrographs, groundwater quality,
and aquifer properties from the U.P. Groundwater Department and Central Groundwater Board; (c) install additional
piezometers in the proposed Sodic 11 project areas to monitor water levels, depth, and groundwater quality; and (d)
an in depth monitoring program designed to understand the movement of salts through the soil profile and into the
groundwater system. Following tasks will be taken in the Sodic II project:
Collection of existing data : Existing data on shallow groundwater hydrographs, groundwater elevations and depth
of aquifers for the project should be collected immediately to prepare the data base using the GIS based software.
The major sources of these data would be the U.P. Groundwater Department and Central Groundwater Board. This
information should collected by January 1999 and used for the installation of piezometers in the area before March
1999.
General Groundwater Monitoring: A total of 64 piezometers installed in the 10 district area during the pilot
project will also be used for this program. In addition to these 64 piezometers, 25 new piezometers will be installed
in seven districts of the project area for general sampling and 12 nested piezometers will be installed in the three
districts to be selected according to the agro-climatic zones. It is proposed that each of the remaining seven districts
should have 3 piezometers per district with two additional piezometers for Allahabad and Fatehpur districts. The
details on the number of piezometers selected and their locations will be the responsibility of the RSAC.
These 25 piezometers will be 10 cm in diameter and will be installed to a depth of 10 to 20m depending on the
water table fluctuations in the area. Piezometers should be installed in shallow aquifers that would be tapped for
irrigation water to be used for reclamation of sodic soils and are most likely to be affected by the leaching of salts.
Collar elevations and map coordinates will be surveyed to ensure the absolute water depths so that groundwater
flow directions can be determined. Piezometer depths will be recorded at the time of installation and data on well-
log of the soil profile should be collected. All these piezometers must be installed before March 1999. Water
samples from all the piezometers will be collected twice a year (pre and post-monsoon periods) and will be analyzed
for all the parameters given in Table 2. Figure I shows a schematic diagram for the sampling program.
A selected number of tubewells will also be used for water quality sampling as tubewell water data will provide the
best information on changes in the groundwater quality of the region. About 5 tubewells should be selected for
every 6000 to 8,000 ha area. All tubewells should be sampled immediately after installation to determine the



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 7 of 12
quality of irrigation water. This will be one time sampling activity and UPBSN will have the responsibility to
collect these samples and send to RSAC for analyses.
A limited number of open wells will be selected (one per about 2000 ha) in the project area to collect data on
groundwater levels.
The pilot project has 5 automatic water level recorders installed in five districts. Five more automatic water level
recorders (AWLR) will be purchased and three of these five AWLRs will be installed in three district areas where
nested piezometers are to be installed in the project. These AWLRs will provide continuous data on groundwater
levels to calculate groundwater gradients, recharge rates, and groundwater flow directions.
Detailed Groundwater Monitoring: Two sites a.;- being monitored (one in Raebareli and the other in Hardoi
district) as a part of the pilot project. At each site, 10 piezometers have been installed to sample water zones at
depths of 2-30 m. At three additional sites (in three other districts), a set of 4 piezometers will be installed at depths
of 3, 5, 10, and 15 m. These depths could be changed depending on the fluctuations in water table depths in the
areas. The location for these piezometers should be selected in consultation with UPBSN and the International
Consultant. These nested piezometers must be installed in the center of reclarnation areas. At each of these three
sites, automatic water level recorders will be installed on one piezometer per site . In other nested piezometers,
water levels will be recorded three times a year (Feb. I - 28, May 15 - June 15, Nov. I - 15) and water samples will
be collected for analysis of pararrmeters given in Table 3.2.
Data collected from general and detailed groundwater monitoring should be put on a data base and analyzed
annually to identify changes in groundwater quality and groundwater fluctuations.
Soil Quality Monitoring
Objectives : The main objective of soil monitoring program is to understand the rate at which improvements in soil
conditions are being achieved after the implementation of the reclamation program. The second purpose of this
monitoring program is to observe the improvements in soil quality of areas which are not under reclamation but are
close to surface drains. The third objective of the soil monitoring program is to do in-depth analysis of piezometer
sites and establish a relationship between the soil and groundwater quality at those sites.
Methodology: RSAC was given the primary responsibility for soil monitoring program in the pilot project. RSAC
has developed good soil quality laboratory and experienced scientists are available to carry out the soil monitoring
program. In the Pilot project, soil sampling methodology has not clearly demonstrated if the reclamation process has
changed the soil salinity and sodicity conditions. This was largely due to the v'ariability in the soil conditions. In the
Phase 11 of the project, it is recommended that appropriate statistical design be used to select the representative sites
for soil sampling.
In the pilot project, 18 sites were identified for the annual soil monitoring program. At each site, 12 plots were
selected from reclaimed areas and another 12 plots were selected from non-reclaimed areas for annual soil
monitoring resulting in the collection of close to 4000 soils samples for chemical analyses on annual basis. Three
years of data from the pilot project indicate a large variability in the soil quality as affected by reclamation.
Therefore, a modified annual soil monitoring program is being proposed for the project. Since two more years of
soil data need to be collected in the pilot program, final conclusions on the eflfect of reclamation on soil quality may
not be ready until the year 2000. Therefore, following strategies are proposecl for annual soil monitoring.
Selection of sites for soil sampling would be the most important decision that need to be made before the beginning
of the project in March 1999.



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 8 of 12
RSAC and UPBSN will use all the available data on land use classes, water table depths, location and presence of
surface drains, and agro-climatic zones in the 10 district areas. Sites should be selected by considering all important
combinations of conditions so that these plots are truly representatives of the broader areas of the districts. Sites for
soil monitoring should be in the middle of 10 to 40 ha of contiguous reclaimed areas in the villages. Isolated and
scattered plots should not be considered for sampling. It is recommended that the new salinity assessment
technologies(EM and GPS technologies) may be considered to assess the spatial variability in soils.
The project aims to reclaim three times the area of pilot project. The Global Positioning System (GPS) may be
considered to screen out areas to reduce tne natural inherent variability in plots.
One representative site in each district would be selected for annual soil monitoring resulting to give a total of 10
soil monitoring sites. At this site, 12 plots would be selected, from reclaimed land with three plots each from class
A, B, and C categories of sodic land use classes. Another twelve plots would be selected from non-reclaimed land
with three each from class A, B, and C. The location of nonreclaimed plots would be close to drains but no more
than 50m from an improved drain. Soil samples would be taken from three locations within each plots at depth
intervals of 0 -15 cm, 15-30 cm, and 30-60 cm. From one location in each plot, soil samples would be taken to a
depth of 160 cm. These soil samples should be analyzed for all soil parameters given in Table 2. Data on soil bulk
density and hydraulic conductivity must be collected from all 10 sites in 10 districts. Figure 2 gives details on the
annual soil monitoring program.
This soil sampling program can be changed to include more areas if additional information from the pilot project
warrant the justification for this action. This action will be applied to new villages which will be brought under
reclamation in Year 2 (2000) of the project.
The soil sampling would also include the collection and analysis of soil samples from sites where piezometers are
installed. Three set of soil samples should be collected to a depth of 160 to 180 cm in increments of 0- 1 5, 15-30,
30-45, 45-60, 60-75, 75-90, 90-120, and 120-160 cm. These samples must be collected within the plots where
gypsum has been applied for reclamation. A set of soil samples must be collected before the beginning of
reclamation activity on these plots. These samples would be analyzed for parameters given in Table 2.
Soil samples would be collected twice a year from selected plots to understand the seasonal effects on salt
movements.
RSAC would use Hatch Co. kits for analyzing soil on a trial basis. If this procedure works well, more number of
soil sampling sites could be brought under annual soil monitoring program. These Hatch kits must be calibrated and
validated for U.P. soils before being adopted for regular analyses.



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 9 of 12
Table I : Environmental Management Plan
A. Matrix of Potential Environmental Impacts and Risk Reduction Measures
Issues                   Potential Project Impact            |             Effect       77                      Actions
Groundwater         Water quality deterioration as a result of leaching of   Decreased availability of good  Rigorous monitoring of GW quality,
Quality             salts from treated land surface.                 quality irrigation water.         elevation and depth at 21 permanent
Probability of occurrence: Moderate              Sustainability of reclamation may   individual peizometer sites and 3 multi
be jeopardized.                  piezometer nests. Sample tubewell water
once a year
Surface Water       Deterioration in quality as waterways receive runoff   Decreased utility of water for  Rigorous monitoring of surface water
Quality             contaminated with soil treatment chemicals and   downstream users and fisheries.   quality in selected main drains.
seepage with leached salts.
Probability of occurrence: Low
Soil Quality        Improvement of soils through reduction in pH and  Expansion of productive land area.  Undertake continued monitoring of
SAR levels, improved permeability, accumulation of                                reclaimed land and adjacent areas with
organic matter and better physical properties through                             improved drainage.
use of Sesbania as green manure.
Probability of occurrence: High
Air Quality         Improved air quality during dry season as soil   Potential reduction of incidence of  No monitoring planned.
surface is stabilized with vegetation.          dust-related health problems.
|________________ |Probability of occurrence: High                  l                                 l                                        l



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 10 of 12
Table 2. Types of Laboratory Analyses (physical, chemical, and biological) for Soils, Groundwater and
Biological Monitoring and Evaluation Programs
Purpose of Analysis     r                                    Analytical Parameters
lj          Soils 1/                       Water 1/
General Characterization       pH                             pH
Color                          Total Dissolved Solids
Soil Texture                  Turbidity
Hydraulic Conductivity         Total Hardness
Bulk Density
Organic Matter
Organic Carbon
Salinity
Hazard                         EC**                           EC
Ca++ **                        Ca++
Mg++ **                       Mg++
Na+ **                        Na+
C03                            C03
HCO3                           HCO3
S04                            S04
Cl-                            Cl-
F-                             F-
CEC                            SAR
ESP
SAR
Metals:                        B                              B
Zn                             Zn
Fe++                           Li
Fe+++
Fertility                      P 3/                           P
K  3/                          K     N03
N03 3/
Fe++
Physical:                      Aggregate Stability          I
Biological:                    Respiration                  I_E. coli 2/
Note : I/AII analysis of chemicals in soils to be done on 1:2 extracts only.
2/     On surface water samples only.
* *    Standard   Analyses   to   be   applied   in  the   soil   monitoring   programr.



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 11 of 12
ANNUAL SOIL PROFILE SAMPLING AT PIEZOMETER SITES
Reclamation Site
at District Level
(1 of 10)
Land use class    Class "C"
O0nly
7 depths
0 -180 cm
Field sites        10
Subclass C sites    10
Annual Samples    70



Annex 2
Attachment 9
Page 12 of 12
Groundwater Monitoring Program
|Reclamntin    aitrit
|Intensive Monitoring|                     Regular Monitrin                    Tubewell      || Open wells
-water samples                           - water samples                   samples                            (water levels only)
-water levels                           - water levels                 (C-class only)
(I of 3)                               (I of 7)_
Depth of piezometer                        Depth of piezometers:          During Installation           Pre-monsoon               Post-monsoon
3,5, 10, IS m.                           10-1Sm (single depth)              and post                May 15-June 15               Nov 1-15
(Cluster at each site)                      Three piezometers in              Monsoon
each district                 Nov 1-15
Pre -monsoon     Pre-monsoon      Post Monsoon       Pre-monsoon      Post Monsoon
sampling        sampling          sampling           sampling         sampling
Feb 1-28     (May 15-june 5)     (Nov. I-I5)      (May 15-Jun IS)    (Nov. 1-15)
Sodic 1I project
Annual Cluster piezometer samples                        36
Regular piezometer samples                               50
Tubewell water samples at all project level             400
Open wells                                              200
Pilot Project
Cluster piezometer samples                               60
Regular piezometer samples                              130
Tubewells                                               300
Open wells                                              300



Annex 3
Pagel of I
ANNEX 3
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT cos rs
Project Component                                   Local         Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million---------------
Land Reclamation and Farm Development                    129.5        8.8         138.3
Main Drain Remodeling                                    29.4         3.3          32.7
Technology Dissemination                                   6.9        0.8           7.7
Upgrading Farm to Market Roads                           29.7         3.3          33.0
HRD and Institutional Capacity Building of Support        9.0         3.3          12.3
Services
Adaptive Research                                          1.3        0.1           1.4
Project Management                                       24.4         4.0          28.4
Total Baseline Cost                                     230.2        23.6         253.8
Physical Contingencies                                 23.5         2.2         25.7
Price Contingencies                                     5.2         1.9          7.1
Total Project Cost                                      258.9        27.7         286.6



Annex 4
Pagel of II
ANNEX 4:
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Primary Impacts
Main Project Benefits. The reclamation of 150,000 ha of sodic lands uncder a six-year project in addition
to the areas reclaimed under the pilot project is expected to increase the annual production of paddy and
wheat in the ten districts covered by the project by about 664,200 tons. Fruit production of aonla, guava
and other fruits is also expected to increase by 175,500 tons annually. Additionally, the rehabilitation of
main drains under the project is expected to lead to incremental agricultural production in areas outside the
targeted areas of sodic lands as improved drainage would reduce the extent and duration of periodic
flooding over a wider area. This annual additional agricultural production outside the project lands is
estimated at 141,000 tons. In total, the development of 150,000 ha under the project would generate at full
development added value to local communities of approximately Rs 1,285 million annually in 1998 prices
from incremental agricultural output from currently non- or under-productive sodic lands, within the
project area and drainage catchment. Value added is defined as farm production revenues less the cost of
inputs and the value of labour employed, whether supplied by households or hired.
Other Benefits.
Rural Roads. The development of rural roads linking beneficiary villages to main roads will reduce
transport costs, facilitate commodity, encourage diversified cropping, and stimulate derivative economic
and social development. An estimate was made, described below, to demonstrate the minimum likely
benefits sufficient to justify this investment.
Women's Groups and Credit. The project will also pursue a pilot action research credit credit study to
identify strategies to increase local saving and develop links between households and formal credit
institutions. The results of the study would indicate the appropriate action necessary for credit institutions
to have the confidence to lend to small and marginal farmers. Results of the study would be incorporated
in the project during implementation.
There is evidence, however, from the pilot project of the likely positive benefits of pursuing a credit
component. Under the pilot project women have formed Women's Self-Help Groups (WSHGs), which are
savings and credit groups that successfully provide small amounts of financing for household-based
income generating activities and unexpected consumption expenditures. NMoreover, the WSHGs, which
also provide some seasonal credit from pooled savings for crop inputs, provide a significant degree of
community respect and prestige to its members. The WSHGs are typically the focus of literacy programs,
and income generating activities.
Strengthening of Local Government. Another project benefit which cannot be quantified at this time, but is
likely to be manifest in the long run is the institutional strengthening of local government. The project's
advocacy of the role of the panchayat system of local government in maintaining local infrastructure
(primarily main drains, but also rural roads) may have wide-ranging implications for the subsequent
channeling of development resources into rural areas. A successful demonstration of panchayat
performance in this regard could bolster greater local participation in the allocation of resources in other
sectors in the future, having as a likely outcome the improved efficiency of the use of resources and much
better prospects for the sustainability of development efforts.
Employment. The number of directly benefiting farm families is estimated at about 375,000. At full
development, the increased demand for farm labor would amount to 23.8 million man-days per annum.
Farm families are expected for the most part to supply this labor, reducing local short-term migration in
search of employment. Calculated at 300 days per job, this incremental farm employment represents the
equivalent of 79,350 additional jobs.



Annex 4
Page 2 of II
The table below summarizes the main impacts of the project at full development.
Table 1. Project Impact
Estimated
Project Activity                           Benefits
Project Area (ha)                                                150,000
Area Benefiting Outside Sodic Area due Improved drains(ha)       271,200
Directly Benefiting Farm Families                                375,000
Indirectly Benefiting Farm Families (within Main Drain Catchment)  542,200
Grain Production, within project area (t/yr)                     664,200
Paddy                                                  353,700
Wheat                                                  310,500
Grain Production, outside project area (t/yr)                    141,024
Paddy                                                   62,376
Wheat                                                   78,648
Fruit (tlyr)                                                     175,500
Farm Employment (md million/yr)                                      23.8
Agricultural Value Added (Rs million/yr)                           1,285
Impact on Farm Incomes and Poverty Alleviation
Farm Model Analysis. Based on the experiences of the on-going project, representative farm models
have been estimated to assess the project's direct impact on farm incomes. The farm models are based on
crop budgets for the cultivation of paddy during the monsoon kharif season and wheat during the following
winter rabi season. With the project, a crop of dhaincha for green manuring precedes the kharif cropping
during the short "summer" zaid season. The prices used in the financial analysis are listed in Table 8.
Pending further observations from the pilot project, cereal yields are expected to attain long-term levels
that are somewhat lower than those achieved initially. The leveling off of crop productivity would reflect,
among other things, the responses of specialized salt-tolerant varieties as soil conditions become less
saline, and the nature of establishing a stable equilibrium in soil chemistry following the initial soil
amendment. The following table summarizes the initial and long-term (following the fourth year of
cropping after soil amendment) cereal crop yields used in crop models constituting the farm models.
Table 2. Crop Yields With and Without Project (t/ha)
Without      With Project Initially     With Project
Project
Paddy, C Class Land          0.0                 3.8                    3.5
Wheat, C Class Land          0.0                 3.0                    2.7
Paddy, B Class Land          1.4                 3.8                    3.5
Wheat, B Class Land          0.0                 3.0                    2.7
Paddy, B+ Class Land         2.3                 3.8                    3.5
Wheat, B+ Class Land         2.0                 3.0                    2.7
Use of dhaincha seed as a green manure would lead to reduction in the quantum of fertilizer to be applied.
Cropping Patterns. In summary, in the course of normal cropping cycle a farm of 0.4 ha of non-
horticultural land would plant the entire area in dhaincha, crop the entire area in paddy and then crop the
entire area in wheat. For horticulture, farms would plant a mixture of fruit with overlapping production
cycles to ensure realization of early annual income. Prior to the first harvest of fruit, farms would secure
income by inter-cropping planted areas with mustard and other aromatic plants.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
The impact of the project on area farm incomes. Table 3 summarizes expected farm net incomes under
the project, where farm net income is defined as revenue less cash inputs and hired labor (Tables 11-14).
This is also referred to as "gross margin" in the crop budgets and farm models.
Table 3. Annual Net Incomes of Farms (0.4 ha)
Land Classification     Without    With Project  Incremental
Project (Rs)     (Rs)          (Rs)
C Class Land                   0          6,653         6,653
B Class Land                1,184         6,653         5,469
B+ Class Land               4,216         6,653         2,436
Horticulture/Intercropping     0         I 1,900       11,900
The full development return to horticulture is achieved 14 years after initial planting. In five years the
income to the farm (revenue less cash inputs and hired labour) is expected to be about Rs 2,370 and to rise
to about Rs 8,000 per 0.4 ha farm ten years after planting.
Financial Rates of Return to Farm Development. Financial rates of return were calculated on the basis
of the farm models, from the perspective of a farmer considering the financing of land reclamation out of
his own resources, and the perspective of an investor having the opportunity to finance the irrigation and
farm development of a 4-hectare area equivalent to a Water Users Group (WUG). The internal rates of
return are calculated on the streams of incremental value added generated by the farms and WUGs, where
value added is defined as farm revenues less inputs and payments to all labour involved at current local
wage rates.
Table 4. Net Present Value of Land Reclamation by Farm and WUG (Rs)
Land Classification      Farm         WUG
C Class Land                9,251        75,283
B Class Land               15,372       136,494
B+ Class Land               9,485        77,624
Horticulture/Intercropping  21,381   - 218,771
The investment in land reclamation and farm irrigation development, wlhen considered apart from other
project costs, has an estimated financial internal rate of return of 26-440,'o for water user groups producing
grains, and more than 25 % for horticultural groups. Public sector financing of on-farm works essentially
eliminates much of the financial risk to farmers for participating in the land improvements.
Poverty Alleviation Impact. Eighty percent of potential project beneficiaries come from scheduled or
backward castes. This implies that the family income of most project beneficiaries - up to eighty percent
of them - especially those who have been allocated plots of degraded land (Class C land and land which
would be suitable for horticultural development under the project), is below the poverty line of about Rs
11,000. The beneficiary households holding these lands in the project area, which number 206,250
households (based on areas to be developed under a six-year project), do not presently derive agricultural
incomes from these areas. Some households may have some other allocations of land - approximately
forty percent households allocated such areas are landless - but these would also be holdings too small to
provide a household's subsistence requirements. Of total project beneficiaries, 45 % would hold Class C
land and 10 % would hold similar quality land to be developed in horticulture. Even those beneficiary
households who hold Class B lands (27 % of total beneficiaries) - from 81,000 to 101,250 households -
which provide a crop of paddy, barely fair better than those having Class C and similar lands. These
households produce some food for themselves, but not profitably in terms of the implied wage per day of
household labour provided for the cultivation. These beneficiary households by and large depend upon
outside employment, earning Rs 400-500 a month, to meet basic needs.
About 18 % of the project beneficiaries would include holders of Class B+ land, which constitutes better
quality land that is suitable for a cropping of paddy followed by wheat. Technically, such lands cannot be



Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
excluded from the improvement of other areas because the most degraded areas exist in patches surrounded
by other quality soils. Although the holders of such land derive higher agricultural incomes than other
beneficiaries, they largely share the same socio-economic status of their neighbors. The size of their
holdings on average (0.4 ha) is the same as for households holding Class C or B lands. They are relatively
less reliant on short-term local migration in search of employment, but about as likely as their neighbors to
be near or below the poverty threshold.
The results of baseline survey indicate that the present households presently have annual incomes near the
poverty threshold of about Rs 11,000. For households holding Class C land, participation in the project
would represent a potential increase in annual household income of approximately 60 %, for Class B
households about 50 % and Class B+ households about 20 %. Households developing land in horticulture
would, at full development, approximately double their present income.
The project provides subsidies to farm households between 40% -65% depending on the class of land.(i.e.
extent of sodicity) There is a direct correlation between the class of land owned and the level of poverty of
the households. This subsidy is for seed, fertiliser, gypsum and boring. It is well targeted. It is difficult to
exclude larger farmers owning B+ land ( better quality land ) as reclamation technology package requires
contiguous 1Oha land area.
Economic Analysis
Analysis Approach and Methodology
Project Components Considered. At the level of the farm, the analysis includes the direct costs of site
selection with the use of remote sensing, on-farm irrigation development, soil amendment, link and main
drain construction, including annual O&M for main drains, technology dissemination and the incremental
costs of cultivation. Also added into the analysis are the full costs of road construction and their
maintenance. Project-wide, the analysis also includes the costs of human resource development,
institutional strengthening and project management. Only the adaptive research component was not
included in the analysis. All together, the analysis accounts for 99 % of project costs.
Derivation of Economic Benefits. Agricultural Production. The quantified benefits are mainly
incremental agricultural production directly attributable to the rehabilitation of sodic soils and other
incremental production within the area of improved main drains. As done for the financial analysis, these
production budgets are aggregated into economic farm and WUG budgets. Overall project incremental net
benefits from agricultural production are estimated according to the phasing of WUG formation under the
project.
Main Drains. The benefits from the improvements in main drains where based on recent engineering
assessments of irrigation and drainage systems in Uttar Pradesh .', which suggested that main drain
rehabilitation could benefit up to 15 % of the catchment area with reductions in waterlogged areas and the
duration of annual flooding. Proper drainage is an essential element for the sustainability of the land
reclamation process, and should be considered an integral part of its cost. The total catchment area of the
main drains improved under the project, however, encompasses an area far larger than the areas of
rehabilitated sodic lands. To assess benefits accruing to areas within the drain catchment outside the
targeted sodic lands, the analysis assumed the following: the average catchment per area of main drain
length is approximately 540 ha; 15 % of this catchment area would benefit from main drain improvement;
of the area benefiting, 90 % would experience a reduction in the duration of annual flood following the
monsoon, which in turn would allow the earlier sowing of wheat and a longer growing period for the rabi
crop; an increased wheat yield of 5 % (based on existing Class B+ land yields) would be indicative of the
impact of this longer growing period for the benefiting area; and in the remaining 20 % of the benefiting
area, a rabi crop of wheat would be grown that was previously not feasible.
' UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam, "UP Sodic Land Reclamation Project, Special Study on Drainage, Final
Report, Annexure X, Operation and Maintenance" (May 1998).



Annex 4
Page 5 of II
Rural Roads. The benefits from investments in rural roads include not only transport cost savings but
other, less directly tangible benefits of social and economic development. The segments of roads to be
taken up by the project are small - 2.0 km or less - and will serve primarily to link single villages to main
roads. Current traffic counts for the villages that may be under consideration are not available. Lacking
this data, the analysis instead constructs an estimate of the minimum quantity of commodities to be moved
along such tracts using an estimate of 9.6 t per household: an estimate of the minimum quantity of grain
that a family could produce to receive income near a poverty income of Rs 11,000. The actual traffic of
goods in and out of the villages is likely to be higher. The analysis uses an estimate of transport cost
savings of Rs 16/t/km, which is comparable to transport cost savings estimated for similar road
developments in Uttar Pradesh2 and elsewhere in India3. To attempt to capture some of the other
development benefits accruing to rural roads, the analysis considers an incremental increase in community
incomes of 0.5 % a year above what would have occurred in the absence of the development. An average
income of Rs 40,000 per household was assumed as the basis for this estimation. This base income is
equivalent to average income of US$200 per capita.
Sensitivity/Risk Analysis. Risks and assumptions that may not fully materialize are treated in the
sensitivity analysis by varying benefit and cost streams. Risks analyzed include: combinations of %age
changes in total costs and project benefits; lagged benefits; the mis-specification of project yields; and the
mis-specification of the economic prices for paddy and wheat.
Cost Assumptions
Economic Prices of Inputs. The economic analysis is presented in 1998 constant values over the project
life of thirty years. All local costs, including unskilled labour and other non-traded goods, were converted
into their approximate economic values using a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9. The economic
pricing of fertilizers was based on their import parity value at the farm gate .
Opportunity Cost of Labour. Current market wage rates for hired unskilled labor average Rs 30 per day.
The Government applies a higher rate for contracted labor: Rs 47 per day. The analysis uses an single
economic wage rate for all unskilled labor that is derived by applying the SCF to the market rate.
Land Reclamation and Farm Irrigation Development. The investment in land reclamation primarily
consists of labor and cost of gypsum. The labor costs was adjusted using an economic wage rate of Rs 27
per day. Total investment costs for the reclamation of 150,000 ha of sodic lands in 6 years are estimated
in financial terms at Rs 8,086 million, including costs of site selection using RSAC and community
mobilization using NGOs.
Main Drain Rehabilitation. The project's financial investment in main drain improvements amounts to Rs
1,907 million for the six-year project, which includes the costs of O&M through year 6. Construction of
the main drains is expected to be completed within four years from the start of the project's
implementation. Annual O&M costs amount to Rs 62 million based on financial costs of Rs 4,000/km/yr
for drains less than 5 cumec, Rs 6,000/km/yr for drains 5-15 cumec and Rs 7,000/km/yr for drains greater
than 15 cumec
Rural Roads. The total financial project cost of farm to market roads (700 km) is estimated at Rs 1,875
million through the first four years of the project's implementation. The unit rate of road investment is
about US$30,000 per kilometer. From year 5 on annual O&M costs amount to about Rs 43 million .
Human Resource Development (HRD) and Institutional Capacity Building of Support Services.
Total financial Investment costs for HRD and institutional capacity building for support services is
calculated at Rs 685 million and include both consultancy services and expenditures on local training
Project Management. The cost of project management, including the outfitting of additional UPBSN
field offices, additional equipment for UPBSN headquarters, UPBSN field management and supervision
2 UP Diversified Agricultural Support Project.
Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project,



Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
charges (which are assessed at a base cost of Rs 5,100 per hectare of targeted sodic area reclaimed);
environmental monitoring and project implementation and socio-economic impact monitoring amount to
about 10 % of total project financial costs
Adaptive Research. The total financial cost of the project's component of adaptive research is calculated
at Rs 75 million. In keeping with general practice, the economic costs of research have not been included
in the analysis due to the uncertainty (and complexity) of quantifying long-term benefits. As this
component constitutes less than one percent of total project costs, the impact of ignoring this component on
the results of the analysis is negligible.
Benefit Assumptions
Economic Prices of Commodities. The economic prices of cereals, the principal outputs of the project,
were derived from average world market price forecasts 4 and adjusted for transport and handling charges
to the farm gate.. As India is at present expected at times to be a net exporter of wheat, the analysis uses a
simple average of the derived import and export parity price to estimate the economic price for this
commodity. The economic price for paddy has been estimated on the basis of its export parity value at the
farm gate.
Land Reclamation Benefits. At full development, a project reclaiming 150,000 ha would realize annual
production net benefits of Rs 1,080 million within eighteen years. New production from Class C lands
(67,500 ha) would account for 37 % of this total, Class B land (40,500 ha) 22 %, Class B+ land (27,000
ha)10 % and hoiticulture (15,000 ha) 30 %. The total present value (at 12 %) of land reclamation
economic benefits is estimated at Rs 6,129 million.
Main Drain Benefits. Based on the conditions outlined above, the benefits from improvements in main
drains as a stand alone component were estimated at Rs 60,476 annually per kilometer of improved main
drain. In total, approximately 5,200 km of main drains would be improved under the project. The total
catchment area associated with this length is about 2.8 million ha. Of this area, about 421,200 ha stand to
benefit from the main drain investments, including 150,000 ha of sodic lands to be reclaimed under the
project. For the reclaimed areas, benefits have already been established on the basis of the crop and farm
budgets developed for the analysis. For the remaining benefiting area of about 271,200 ha within the
catchment, total annual benefits are estimated at Rs 205 million following the completion of main drain
investments. The total present value of estimated main drain benefits outside the target sodic land area is
calculated at Rs 1,205 million.
Rural Road Beinefits. The initial transport cost saving per road is estimated at Rs 203,520 per annum.
Other annual road benefits are initially estimated at Rs 120,000 per road. Growing at the assumed rate of
0.5 % a year, these benefits are sufficient to provide a minimally acceptable rate of return to the
investment. On this basis total economic benefits arising from investments in rural roads are estimated for
the project in present value terms at Rs 888 million.
Economic Rate of Return
Base ERR. On the basis of the above conditions, the economic rate of return (ERR) to the project is
estimated at 14.8 %. The net present value of the project, however, is more than Rs 1,192 million. The
rates of return are fairly robust for all components.
The sensitivity/risk analysis described below demonstrates that the base ERR for the project is a robust
result.
4 IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1996, adjusted to 1998 constant value.



Annex 4
Page 7 of II
Table 5. Summary of Base Case Economic Rates of Retum (%)
____ _________ _ _     ERR
Land Reclamation*
Class C Land                     12.3
Class B Land                     19.6
Class B+ Land                     1
Horticulture                     14.2
Main Drain Rehabilitation         29.1
Rural Roads                       12.0
Total Project                     14.8
Benefits NPV (Rs million)        7,322
Costs NPV (Rs million)           6,129
Project NPV (Rs million)         1,192
* Return to farm land and irrigation development only, including the costs of main drain improvement,
site selection & social mobilisation, technology dissemination, HRD, iinstitutional strengthening and project
management.
Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Values. Switching analysis was undertaken to determine the effect of deviations from the main
assumptions on the economic viability of the project. The switching value is the percentage change in total
project incremental costs or benefits that would reduce the present value of the project's net incremental
benefits to zero when discounted at the opportunity cost of capital rate of 12 %.
The analysis indicates that total benefits would need to fall by about 16% to reduce the present value of the
project's total incremental net benefits to zero. An increase of total costs by 19% would reduce the present
value of the incremental net benefit stream to zero.
Table 6. Switching Values at 12% Discount Rate
Benefits    Costs
% Change                      -16        19
PV (Rs million)              6,129      7,322
Appraisal PV (Rs million)    7,322      6,129
Variatimns in Tahl Cots nd Benefit Strenms. Several testg on the sensitivity of the proposed project's
overall return to simultaneous percentage variations in cost and benefit streams were calculated. The
results appear in the following two-part table.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 11
Table 7. Sensitivity of Project ERR
Change in Total Beneflts from Base Values
Change in          -20%             -10%            0%              10%            20%
Total Costs
from Base
Values
-20%           14.8%           16.8%          18.9%           20.9%           23.0%
-10%           12.9%           14.8%          16.6%           18.4%           20.2%
0%            11.4%           13.1%          14.8%           16.4%           18.1%
10%           10.1%           11.7%           13.2%          14.8%           16.3%
20%            9.0%           10.5%           11.9%           13.4%           14.8%
Effect on ERR from %age Changes in Reclamation Costs Only
Change in           -20%            - 10%           0%              10%            20%
Costs                                         l
ERR                16.4%           15.5%           14.8%          14.0%           13.4%
Effect on ERR from %age Changes in Other Project Costs Excluding Roads
Change in          -20%             -10%            0%              10%            20%
Costs                                               _
ERR                16.3%           15.5%           14.8%          14.1%           13.5%
Effect on ERR from %age Changes in Benefits from Outside Sodic Areas
Change in           -20%            -10%            0%              10%            20%
Benefits
ERR                14.2%           14.5%           14.8%          15.0%           15.3%
Similar variations in the costs or benefits attributable to the development of rural roads have little impact
on overall results for the project.
Implementation Delays. On basis of the experienqm of the on-going project, implementation delayg are
not a particular concern. In the unlikely event that project benefits are lagged by one year, the ERR is
13%. A two-year lag in project benefits would result in an ERR of 1 1%.
Caveat. The analysis has assumed that reclamation under the project uses gypsum as a soil amendment.
Trials suggest that a by-product of sugarcane processing, pressmud, may be an effective, less costly
substitute for this material. If the tedhmicil and finani5al feasibility of this posslbl6ty are proved true in the
course of the proposed project's implementation, total project reclamation costs are likely to be lower than
now estimated in the analysis.
Risk Analysis
Misspecification of Key Parameters. To assess the effect upon the project of paddy and wheat yields
that might vary around the long-term values applied in the analysis, and the possibility that the key
economic prices for paddy and wheat might be misspecified the analysis has calculated distributions for the
total ERR of the project by allowing these parameters vary within defined ranges of values. Based on
experience to date, the average yields of paddy and wheat for reclaimed areas are expected to be 3.5 t/ha



Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
for paddy (following the plowing in of a preceding dhainca crop) and 2.7 t/ha for wheat. The yields may
be lower or higher than these figures, but with a decreasing likelihood of actually occurring the further
removed the yields are removed from their expected base values. Here, confidence is strong that a
variation about the base yields for paddy or wheat by as much as ten % would not be very likely. For
simplicity, these yields, as random variables, are considered to follow a triangular distribution, where 4 t/ha
and 2.7 t/ha are the most likely values that these yields would attain and plus or minus 10 % of their values
are the least likely. Between the central values and their high and low extremes of 10 %, the likelihood of
other values occurring would vary in a linear fashion. The same approach was applied when considering
crop yields for the likely future in the absence of the project. The economic wage was also allowed to vary
ten % above and below the base value of Rs 27 per day.
Defining grain yields, the wage rate and economic prices in this way as variables falling between defined
extremes with linearly varying degrees of probability, the analysis performed a series of Monte Carlo
iterations of the project ERR. In each iteration, the yields of paddy and wheat, and their economic prices,
assume a particular value according to their distributions. The results of the iterations are then tabulated to
calculate a probability distribution for the project ERR.
The results of running a simulation of the project ERR given these input variables appear below. The
simulation ran 2500 iterations.
Chart 1. Simulation Results for Project ERR (6-Year Project)
Distribution for Project E RR
0.115.
0.0s2---- ,I ---------r------
0.069 ------ --   M    t.--- ------
0.09
0.9
EL  0.023                                --- ------~~~~~~~
0.000
8.25  10.59  12.92  15.26  17.59  19.92  22.26
ERR%
The mean of the ERR distribution for the calculated at about 17 O/o. is estimated at 2 %. These results
indicate that the bulk of the distribution for the ERR, given uncertainty in average grain yields, their
economic pricing and the economic wage, would lie above the opportunity cost of capital threshold of 12
Sustainability. There are possibly two major long-term risks to the sustainability of the project's expected
benefits: (i) the faulty maintenance of the drainage system and (ii) the discontinuance of cropping. The
following section describes how the project would address these risks.
Maintenance of Main Drains. As noted elsewhere, the improvement of main drains is an integral part of
the reclamation process. Failure to preserve the proper functioning of the drainage system would
eventually reverse much of the reclamation work. The Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department hitherto has
been unable to execute more than a fraction of the maintenance required of the existing system of main
drains because of limited budgetary resources. A maintenance plan has been developed where GOUP
budgetary resources would be supplemented by resources from centrally sponsored rural development
schemes such as the Employment Assurance Scheme. Irrigation Department has set-up seven dedicated



Annex 4
Page 10 of 11
divisions to ensure that the remodeling and maintenance work would be carried out expeditiously. A
financing plan has also been provided.
Continuity of Cropping. Sodic lands, once reclaimed, must be cropped continuously to keep from
reverting to their previously degraded state. In the context of the proposed project, the risk of discontinued
cultivation might arise if households find more attractive sources of outside income. This scenario would
not appear likely in the short to medium term. The estimated return to labor to households working
reclaimed lands is considerably higher than the current rural wage rate: the analysis indicates a return that
is more than double the existing wage. The imputed return to horticulture is more than Rs 200 a day.
Competing wages of more than Rs 70 (or Rs 200 in the case of horticulture) a day are not available locally,
and it is doubtful that they could easily be found by migration to urban areas within or outside the state.
Although the wage imputed to agricultural production under the project is expected to be relatively high
and rewarding; the average farm size is small, implying that the quantities of incremental employment
created per household will be rather limited (89 days in the case of Class C farms, 33 days for Class B
farms and 5 days for Class B+ farms). Nevertheless, productive land represents a valuable asset to
households. Under the first sodic land reclamation project, the value of reclaimed land is reported to have
quadrupled in most areas. There is also evidence that the value of such lands, as collateral, allows
households access to credit markets, which introduces further opportunities to develop household incomes
and local economies. Households, therefore, have strong incentives to keep their reclaimed lands
productive.
Initial cropping in paddy followed by wheat is critical to the reclamation process. Within a few seasons,
farms would be in a position to diversify production into higher value crops. Extension linkages
established and strengthened under the project would encourage and facilitate such changes. In this event,
the cash income opportunity cost of foregoing cultivation on the land becomes greater, and households are
in a more profitable position, if necessary, to hire labour to replace their own on the farm (although it is
likely that households will continue to supply all required labour on the farm for some time). Moreover, if
other more attractive income opportunities arise outside the farm, households would also have the choice to
convert the land to horticulture and wait for the full development of returns - while the land further accrues
value.
Project Alternaitives. Criteria that Alternatives Must Also Address. The proposed project targets poor
households, assisting them to develop the means for substantially augmenting their incomes. JFor
households having Class C land, for example, the total cost of reclamation is more than Rs 12,000 per
farm, of which gypsum for soil amendment and incremental working capital for agricultural production
account for over eighty %. This cash expense would represent nearly the entire income of a typical
beneficiary household, and would be beyond its capability to finance. Moreover, local credit to undertake
such reclamation is not available to beneficiary households, who, coming from scheduled and backward
castes, lack the surety to work with formal credit institutions and lack the capacity to undertake non-trivial
financial risks. The project therefore fits well within the component of the Government's strategy for the
development of agriculture in Uttar Pradesh that identifies as a priority the complementary objectives of
diversifying farming systems, generating greater employment and household incomes and reducing of
poverty. The project also addresses the strategic component of improving access to rural credit, especially
of the assetless rural community.
Households do share in the costs of development, however, providing labour for land development, the
construction of field drains and irrigation channels. In the reclamation of the B and B+ classes of sodic
land, total costs are less than for Class C, and accordingly there is a higher proportion of cost sharing borne
by these beneficiaries: each beneficiary contributes about the same value in labour (Rs 670-800 per
household) for the development of their land. After reclamation, farmers pay for the full cost of their farm
operations, and, if the devolution of responsibilities to the panchayats proves successful, substantially
contribute to the maintenance of the main drains from which their farms benefit. After reclamation,
farmers also have the incentive to sustain or increase the value added to their land. The Government, in
exchange, would benefit by avoiding the expense and possible efficiency losses of having to make future
transfers of income to these households to insure their subsistence and to provide the means for achieving a



Annex 4
Page II of 11
basic level of social well-being. The present analysis has not attempted to quantify these additional
benefits to the Government and economy.
Other Proposed Uses of Resources for Agricultural Development. Whether there exist feasible project
alternatives that meet the above criteria and could provide equivalent incomes to the large class of
households to be targeted by the project is not at all certain. As the project is primarily concerned with the
development of marginal lands held by poor households, an alternative agricultural development would
need to involve the improvement of agricultural productivity of farms outside these marginal areas, farms
which in turn would generate sufficient incremental employment opportunities to require the hiring of
labor from households that would otherwise benefit from the reclamation of their lands. The Uttar
Pradesh Diversified Agriculture Support Project (UPDASP) might offer that opportunity, but UPDASP is
itself concerned with addressing local poverty in districts that lie outside the present project area. Poverty
in Uttar Pradesh is a problem that is larger than the scope of both UPDASP and the project. Migration,
even if short-term, could impose financial and social costs on beneficiary households that restrict
participation and potential net economic benefits.
Further irrigation development in Uttar Pradesh might represent another, possibly preferred alternative to
the proposed project. The project however addresses priority concerns of the Government's agricultural
strategy as they relate to the further development or increased efficiency of irrigation. Formerly, the rapid
reclamation of sodic areas forms part of the strategic component concerning the sustainable use of natural
resources in service toward increasing the production of cereals. Land reclamation, however, also concerns
the Government's concern to utilize the state's irrigation potential. Utilization of this potential demands
both improved on-farm water management and adequate surface drainage, which are complementary focal
areas of the project and of the Government's strategy .
Government of India's Ninth Five Year Plan's objective is the removal of poverty and unemployment and
ensuring food and nutritional security and attaining a high growth in agriculture is a prerequisite.
Availability of land is considered to be a major constraint to agriculture growth with the increase in
demand for land for urbanization and industrialization. In the past the loss of land to non-agricultural uses
has been compensated by converting forest lands. As there is no further scope for this the strategy calls for
obtaining agricultural land through reclamation of wastelands and land affected by salinity . alkalinity and
water logging.



Annex 5
Pagel of 2
ANNEX 5
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Years Ending March 31
(US$ Millions)
Implementation Period                     Total
00        01    02    03    04    05    06   Amount   % of
Project
cost
Project Costs
Investment Costs           32.2  51.8  69.2  70.0  43.2  16.3   1.0   283.7      99.0
Recurrent Costs                   0.1   0.3   0.7   1.2   0.6            2.9      1.0
Total                   32.2  51.9  69.5  70.7  44.4  16.9   1.0   286.6    100.0
Financing Sources
IDA                        25.4  37.3  48.6  48.2  26.8   7.4  0.4   194.1       67.7
Govemnment                  5.0   7.6  11.1  11.3   6.8   2.6  0.4    44.8       15.6
Beneficiaries               1.8  7.0   9.8  11.2  10.8   6.9  0.2    47.7        16.7
Total                   32.2  51.9  69.5  70.7  44.4  16.9  1.0   286.6    100.0
Major Assumptions and Basis for Cost Estimates:
I.      Cost estimates are based on estimates of physical work;s and activities to be carried out
each year (land reclamation activities, drainage works, roads construction, etc).
2.     Cost data are based on July 1998 prices adjusted for expected inflation thereafter. Base
costs represent costs at Negotiations (October 1998).
3.     Expected inflation and exchange rates are based on latest Bank projections as indicated
below:
Local %       Foreign %
Data Collection - Negotiations (3 months in 98/99)    1.75        0.6
Negotiations to Project Start (6 months in 98/99)  3.4            1.2
Project Year 1 (99/00)                             6.5            2.4
Project Year 2 (00/01 )                            6.45           2.4
Project Year 3 (01/02)                             6              2.4
Project Year 4 (02/03)                             6              2.4
Project Year 5 (03/04)                             6              2.4
Project Year 6 (04/05)                             6              2.4
Project Year 7 (6 months in 05/06)                 3              1.2
Note: Project Years are April - March.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
4.     Expected exchange rates (period averages) are based on latest Bank projections as
indicated below:
Rs.JUS$
Project Year 1 (99/00)             46.25
Project Year 2 (00/0 1)            48.4
Project Year 3 (01/02)             50.45
Project Year 4 (02/03)             52.7
Project Year 5 (03/04)             55.0
Project Year 6 (04/05)             57.4
Project Year 7 (05/06)             59.3
Note: Project Years are April - March.



Annex 6
Pagel of 14
ANNEX 6
INDIA - UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
A. PROCUREMENT
Civil Works (US$90.9 million including non-Bank financed US$6.6 million): Civil works in the
project consists mainly of the construction of Panchayat Bhawans, buildings, field drains, tubewell borings,
link drains, main drains, irrigation channels and village roads; and for rnaintenance of roads and main
drains. Works would be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or direct contracting
procedures following Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997) as follows:
NCB: Works to an aggregate value of US $47.8 million equivalent would be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the IDA. The justification for
proposed NCB for civil works is that the works are located in widely scattered locations. The
works would be grouped together into convenient packages for bidding: but the largest contract is
likely to be much less than the equivalent of US$1,000,000 so it is unlikely that foreign firms
would find such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be
precluded.
Direct Contracting/Quotation : Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000
per contract and on farm development works up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$36.5
million may be undertaken by: (i) direct contracting from registered NGOs or local community
organizations such as Water Users Group, Self Help Group; or (ii) lump-sum fixed-price contracts
to qualified contractors awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 3 qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. These works are not suitable for competitive
bidding due to small amounts and remoteness of location.
Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$115.6 million incliuding non-Bank financed US$20.2
million): Goods would be procured following Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, Revised
January and August 1996, Septemiber 1997) as follows:
ICB: Goods estimated to cost $200,000 or more per contract (e.g., Gypsum, PVC pipe, Zinc
Sulphate, communication equipment, computers, scientific equipments, etc.) would be procured
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
NCB: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract (e.g.,
Dhaincha seeds, Reflux Valve, equipment, etc.) up to an aggregate value of US$5.3 million would
be procured following NCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
National Shopping: Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $20,000 per contract
(e.g., small items of equipment, urgent requirements of computers, audio visual equipment
furniture, laboratory equipment and some scientific equipment, field and laboratory supplies and
some inputs including fertilizers e.g., MOP, inter-horticulture seeds, crop, protection chemicals
etc.) would be procured by the various implementing agencies in small lots over the six year
period using national shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of
US$4.1 million. Rate contracts of Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D)
would be acceptable as a substitute for national shopping.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 14
Direct Contracting: Goods (except vehicles, seeds and fertilizers) estimated to cost less than
$ 10,000 equivalent per contract (e.g., satellite imagery, data, aerial photography, maps, etc. which
would be would be procured from organizations such as the National Remote Sensing Agency,
Survey of India and other organizations; books, periodicals, extension and publicity materials,
software, proprietary equipment and spares, irrigation water, pesticides, plants etc.) would be
procured using direct contracting procedures. Seeds (e.g., paddy and wheat) and fertilizers (e.g.,
Urea and DAP) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract would also be procured
using direct contracting procedures. The aggregate value of goods to be procured under direct
contracting is $23.1 million. Seeds (e.g., paddy and wheat) are kept under direct contracting
because specific varieties of these seeds are required and it is not generally available and for
procurement of specific varieties, arrangement for sowing will have to be made with specific
suppliers like TDC, NSC, SFCI, Dept. of Agriculture and other state seed corporation etc. in
advance and therefore no tendering procedure can be followed. Fertilizers (e.g., Urea and DAP)
have been kept in direct contracting procedure because the price of these items is controlled by
Govt. and arrangement for procurement will have to be made in advance.
Transportation, Storage and Handling: Local transportation charges from suppliers' factory to
project site, related handling charges (e.g., loading, unloading, rebagging, etc.), and storage
charges (godown rental, etc.) of gypsum will be eligible for reimbursement from the IDA Credit
(Disbursement Ratio: 80%). The estimated total cost of transportation, storage and handling
storage charges of gypsum is US$37.1 million. Local transportation of gypsum from suppliers'
factory to to rail head (estimated cost: US$29.9 million) will be included in the contract for
purchase of gypsum (procured using ICB procedures). Local transportation of gypsum from rail
head to project site, and storage and handling charges on gypsum will be procured using national
shopping procedures (estimated cost: US$7.2 million).
Vehicles (US$0.9 million): The requirement of vehicles is spread over the project period and thus would
not be amenable to central and lumped procurement. Individual contracts are not likely to be more than
US$100,000. Hence these would be procured using shopping procedure/DGS&D rate contracts. Contracts
costing $100,000 or more, if any, would be procured using ICB.
Consultancies and Training (US$21.7 million): Technical Assistance and consultancy services for
studies including hiring the services of NGOs and quality supervision of drains and roads estimated in the
aggregate at US$1I0.0 million, and research and studies services estimated in the aggregate at US$1.3
million would be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the use of
Consultants (January 1997 and revised in September 1997). Consultants would be procured using QCBS
procedures (US$8.9 million) and sole source procedures (US$1.4 million). The Standard request for
Proposals and Conditions of Contract would be used for all contracts.
Training Services in established institutions would be procured directly subject to clearance with IDA on
the annual plan which would include details of course fee and number of personnel to be trained. The
estimated cost of training services is US$10.4 million.
Incremental staff and operating costs: (US$11.8 million): These would be financed on declining basis
and would cover salaries and honoraria of agreed incremental positions, operation and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles, hiring cost of vehicles, travel, office (including rent and maintenance for office
buildings), and other operating costs such as telephone, printing and stationery, electricity, insurance and
legal expenses.
UPBSN Supervision Fee (US$20.6 million): UPBSN would be paid an output based fee towards cost of
UPBSN staff employed for implementing the project. The rate for the first year would be Rs. 5, 100 ha to
be increased based on average inflation rate (whole sale price index).



Annex 6
Page 3 of 14
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision : In addition to prior, review, Annual Procurement Plans
would be reviewed by IDA. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would
be carried out by IDA visiting missions/owner agencies.
Procurement Information : Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    Prompt reporting of contract award information by PMU.
(b)    Comprehensive semi-annual reports by PMU indicating
(i)    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total cost;
(ii)   revised timings of the procurement actions including advertising, bidding,
contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)   compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement
(c)    Completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
Procurement Schedule and Proposed Procurement Arrangements: The proposed packages and the
Procurement Schedules for the project have been provided by UPBSN. The Project's Training Plan is
presented as an attachment. Selection of consultancy services shall be undertaken in accordance with
selection plan presented in the attachment. The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement are summarized in Table A. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to
be financed through the IDA credit.
B. DISBURSEMENTS AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C.
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be $10 million which represents about 4 months of estimated disbursements from
the IDA Credit. The authorized allocation would be $5 million until the aggregate disbursements from the
IDA Credit reach the equivalent of SDR 25 million. The Special Account would be operated in accordance
with the Bank's operational policies.
Disbursements would be made against Withdrawal Applications for reimbursements of expenditure with
full documentation, reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), and direct
payments. IDA would disburse against SOEs for the following types of expenditures: (i) on contracts for
works, goods and local transportation (and handling and storage charges) for gypsum not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) on contracts for consultants services not exceeding $100,000 in the case of
consulting firms, and not exceeding $50,000 in the case of individual consultants; (iii) training expenditure;
(iv) incremental staff and operating costs; and (v) maintenance costs cf roads and drains.
Although disbursements would initially be made using the Bank's existing disbursement procedures (as
described above), it was agreed at Negotiations that UPBSN would operate the project financial
management system and produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) from the system; and that
UPBSN would take necessary steps (especially the recruitment of the Financial Controller and Financial
Officer as indicated below) to enable conversion of disbursements to the Bank's new PMR-based
disbursement procedures as soon as possible. The target date for this conversion would be April 1, 2000.
An assessment of the project financial management system, and actions to be taken, are given below.
Assessment of Financial Management System: The project is a follow-on project to the on-going Uttar
Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (UP Sodic 1). UPBSN and all other implementing agencies are
non-revenue earning entities. The main implementing agency - UPBSN has established and is operating a
computerized accounting system for UP Sodic 1. An appraisal of the accounting system indicates that the
major strengths of the system are: (i) a good accounting system has been established and operational.
Accounting books are maintained on double-entry system and are upto date; (ii) staff have been trained to
carry out basic accounting functions; (iii) a reasonable system of internal controls in place. An Accounting
Manual has been prepared which documents the various accounting systems and procedures; (iv) there is a



Annex 6
Page 4 of 14
good system of transaction audit (by a firm of Chartered Accountants) which is an added internal control
mechanism; and (v) a very good computerized system with facility for generating several financial reports
has been developed and is operational. Financial information from the accounting system is used to
prepare various management reports (albeit to an limited extent).
There is however considerable scope for improvement in the following aspects: (i) presentation of financial
information to ensure that financial information is provided in clear, simple, user-friendly and consistent
form; (ii) preparation and audit of project financial statements. There is need for timely preparation of
financial statements, and for audit of these financial statements to enhance credibility of financial
statements; (iii) use of financial reporting/financial statements as a project management tool to improve
accountability. There is need to analyze financial information and actively use the information in decision-
making; (iv) need for enhanced transparency and consistency of activities and expenditures which are
being charged as project expenditure by all implementing agencies; (v) improvement in internal controls on
advances paid to by UPBSN to other implementing agencies, and on checking and accounting of
expenditures incutred by these agencies; (vi) ensuring that all project-related activities are reflected in the
project accounts and financial statements; and (vii) documentation of operation of the computerized system
and controls over data integrity.
UPBSN has developed a financial management system for the project, with the assistance of a consultant
(Chartered Accountant). A Financial Management Manual has been prepared to document the operation of
the project Financial Management System. The Financial Management Manual would be formally adopted
by project management as the document which would govern all financial management aspects of the
project. The preparation and adoption of the Financial Management Manual is an important first step in
bringing a 'systems orientation' to project financial management (as contrasted with a transaction-
orientation). The Manual covers the following aspects: (i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting
policies; (iii) accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial
reporting (including formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting;
and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions. The Financial Management
Manual would be periodically updated and improved based on implementation experience.
Flow of Funds: CiOI would pass on the Bank funds to GOUP in accordance with the normal formula in
which assistance is passed on to States with GOI bearing the foreign exchange risk. GOUP would provide
funds for the project, as a grant, through a budgetary allocation under a single identifiable item called the
'Sodic Land Reclamation 11 Project' under the head 'Soil and Water Conservation' of the Department of
Agriculture. The allocation would include both counterpart funds of GOUP and funds from the IDA
Credit. Budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget for project activities prepared by
UPBSN in consultation and coordination with all implementing agencies.
All funds for the project would flow through UPBSN. GOUP would provide funds for the project (own
funds and World Bank-provided funds) to UPBSN. Beneficiary contributions to project costs would be
also be received by UPBSN. UPBSN would utilize part of the project funds for its own expenditures, and
would pass on funds to other implementing agencies for project-related expenditures on the basis of their
agreed work plans, UPBSN would provide advances to these agencies to enable them to carry out the
work, and would subsequently set-off these advances against project expenditures incurred by these
agencies.
Financial and Accounting Policies: Financial and accounting policies for the project have been
developed and included in the Financial Management Manual. These policies are crucial for ensuring
transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance staff,
ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies interalia cover the following aspects:
(i) expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from the IDA Credit; (iii) provision of advances
to various implementing agencies, and accounting of funds provided to these agencies; and (iv) project
accounting policies. These policies would be gradually expanded and refined to include aspects such as



Annex 6
Page 5 of 14
efficient management and deployment of funds, internal control policies, etc. All implementing agencies
would comply with the financial and accounting policies of the project iindicated in the Financial
Management Manual; and this aspect would be included in the Memorandum of Understanding to be
signed between UPBSN and each implementing agency.
Project Accounting System: UPBSN would be responsible for overall project financial management and
accounting. UPBSN would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by UP13SN on double-entry bookkeeping
principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized accounting system which has
been developed and operational in UPBSN. The computerized accounting system is a networked system
connecting all UPBSN field offices and headquarters.
(ii)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions),
and all utilization of project funds (by all implementing agencies). This would include payments made to
and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies. All project-related transactions (whether
involving cash or not) would be accounted in the books of accounts. Tlais would include contributions
made by beneficiaries in the form of labor and agricultural inputs. Disbursements made by the World
Bank and the Special Account maintained by GOI would also be included in the project accounting system.
Funds received from different sources - GOUP, World Bank and beneficiaries would be identified
separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements
(iii)   Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguishied from other activities of UPBSN.
This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the project
capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. A
Chart of Accounts for the project has been prepared. The Chart of Accounts conforms to the classification
of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan,
Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB model). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be captured in a
manner as to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii)
expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; and (iv) implemenTlting agencies.
(iv)    Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v)    Physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be
maintained for some high cost items which account for a significant portion of project cost, and for items
for which data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have been identified and indicated
in the Financial Management Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes:
(i) UPBSN would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on
activities directly managed by UPBSN.
(ii) Implementing agencies which are not departments of GOUP viz., FRSAC and UPCAR, would maintain
supporting documentation for expenditures on activities managed by them. RSAC and UPCAR would
maintain books of accounts on double entry bookkeeping principles, for their activities under the project.
RSAC and UPCAR would provide a summary statement of expenditure monthly based on the books of
accounts, along with other information and documents (details given in the Financial Management
Manual), to enable UPBSN to account for these expenditures.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 14
(iii) Implementing agencies which are departments of GOUP viz., Irrigation Department, Public Works
Department (PWD), Agriculture Department and Panchayati Raj Department would maintain supporting
documentation for expenditures on activities managed by them. These agencies would maintain books of
accounts according to government accounting system and would submit to UPBSN a summary statement
of expenditure monthly based on their books and accounts, along with other information and documents
(details given in the Financial Management Manual) to enable UPBSN to account for these expenditures.
(iv) All implementing agencies would maintain separate (distinct) books and records in respect of
transactions for activities under the project.
(v) Expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies would be audited by the project auditors
(Chartered Accountants); and
(vi) This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and modified as necessary.
Internal Controls
The project financial management system includes the following internal control mechanisms:
(i)    operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(ii)    adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier). These
policies and procedures are included in the Financial Management Manual.
(iii)   at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliations, physical verification, etc. These policies and
procedures are given in the existing Accounting Manual and Procurement Manual of UPBSN and would be
reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv)    establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, including concurrent audit (as
described below).
Financial Management Reports
Quarterly financial management reports for the project would be generated from the computerized
financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than
transactional details) and would be used for project management by UPBSN and other implementing
agencies. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of
major variances, including on sources and application of funds (by components, expenditure categories and
implementing agencies), and on physical parameters and unit rates for selected key items; (ii) expenditures
by disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters. Formats of the reports are given in the
Financial Management Manual.
Annually: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA. PFS would include: (i)
a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilites of the project. This would also include appropriate
schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and implementing
agencies; (ii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the
IDA Credit made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to
the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year (i.e., not later than September 30 for the
fiscal year ended on March 31 of each year).



Annex 6
Page 7 of 14
Auditing Arrangements
The accounts and financial statements of the project would be audited by a firm of Chartered Accountants,
who would be the Project Auditors. The annual project financial statements audited by the firm of
Chartered Accountants would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year.
The Terms of Reference (TOR) and qualifications of the firm of Chartered Accountants are included in the
Financial Management Manual and have been reviewed by the Bank. The cost of the audit by the firn of
Chartered Accountants would be eligible for financing from the Bank's Credit. The Bank's Guidelines for
selection of consultants would apply to the engagement of the firm of Chartered Accountants.
The audit by the Project Auditor would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all
sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies). The audit will be
carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The Terms of Reference of the
auditors includes both audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the financial
management system perse, including review of internal control mechanisms. All implementing agencies
would provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and information required
by the auditor for the purposes of the audit. The audit would also cover any cost-based consultancy or
other contracts for which no supporting documentation is provided to UPBSN. The Project Auditor would
carry out a concurrent audit at the end of each quarter, to bring to management's attention any issues which
may be required to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early
completion of the annual audit.
The Project Auditor would be appointed before the start of the project. The firm would initially be
appointed for one year. Depending on satisfactory performance, the contract would be extended for a
maximum period of two additional years. To ensure rotation of auditors, a different firm would be
appointed for the subsequent period.
Staffing
Key Professional Staff: Currently the key staff in the finance and accounts function of UPBSN are a
Manager-Finance, who is supported by an Accounts Officer. To augment its financial management
capabilities, UPBSN plans to recruit the following qualified professionals: (i) an experienced Chartered
Accountant or Cost Accountant as Financial Controller. The Financiail Controller would head UPBSN's
Finance and Accounts function; and would provide the necessary leadership, vision and direction to
modernize the financial function in UPBSN, including for the project perse; and (ii) a qualified middle-
level professional accountant (Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant) as Financial Officer. The
appointment of these two additional qualified professional staff is crucial for the satisfactory operation of
the financial management system for the project.
UPBSN has supporting junior accounts staff (Accountants or Assistant Accountants) at all 10 field offices;
and proposes to appoint similar staff in the proposed additional 16 field offices. UPBSN also has 5
supporting accounts staff at Headquarters and proposes to appoint 6 additional supporting staff at
Headquarters. This staffing is adequate for the project. The new improved computerized system, which
would automate many of the functions such as compilation, generation of financial reports, etc., would also
help significantly in reducing work load and ensuring timeliness and quality of accounting and financial
reporting.
Areas for Improvement
Overall, the financial management system documented in the financial management manual is satisfactory.
However, there is still considerable scope for improvement. The recruitment of the two qualified
professional staff with the necessary training and experience in the operation of modern financial
management systems, along with inputs by the project auditors (on thie operation of the system), would
provide the necessary foundations for these improvements. Some of the areas for improvement are: (i)



Annex 6
Page 8 of 14
sensitization and training for UPBSN professional staff (and those of other agencies) in financial planning
and management, operation of 'system-based' internal controls, financial policies, etc., (ii) training of
financial staff in all implementing agencies in basic computer operations (spreadsheets, word processors,
databases, operation of the computerized financial management system, etc.); (iii) ensuring better linkages
between physical and financial activities, including expanding the items for which physical data is captured
in the financial management system (e.g., construction of drains, roads, etc); (iv) developing better linkages
between stores and financial functions in UPBSN, especially since these functions are closely related (on
aspects such as internal controls over stocks, valuation of inventories, etc.); and (v) development and
implementation of internal service standards for all finance and accounting functions. These as well as
other improvements would be addressed during project implementation on a continual basis.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
Financial Management System: The design of the Financial Management System is substantially
advanced. A Financial Management Manual documenting the financial management system has been
prepared; and will be finalized shortly after review and incorporation of suggestions. The computerization
of the FMS (modifications to the existing computerized system) has also begun and is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1998. Completion of the development of the financial management system
would be a Condition of Effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
Appointment of Auditors: Draft Terms of Reference for financial audit of the project have been prepared;
and the process of recruitment of a firm of Chartered Accountants as project auditors for the first year has
begun. The auditors are expected to be appointed by March 31, 1999.
Recruitment of Key Staff: The process for recruitment of the two additional key financial staff (Financial
Controller and Financial Officer) has commenced. The Financial Officer is expected to be appointed by
March 31, 1999 and the Financial Controller is expected to be appointed by June 30, 1999. These are
included as dated covenants in the Project Agreement.
Risks
There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) unsatisfactory internal controls over
expenditures incurred by implementing agencies other than UPBSN; and (ii) delays in preparation of
project management reports. These risks and the risk-mitigation measures are outlined below. Both these
risks are considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these
are highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting project performance. These aspects
will be monitored closely as part of project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms for expenditures on activities managed by other agencies (which account for
about 33% of total project cost) need strengthening. Agencies which are departments of GOUP (Irrigation,
PWD, Agriculture and Panchayati Raj) operate on government accounting system, and do not have fully
satisfactory and transparent financial systems, budgetary controls and qualified financial staff. This risk is
mitigated by the following factors: (i) maintenance of project accounts by UPBSN covering all
implementing agencies; (ii) establishment of financial policies and procedures which would govern project
expenditures by these agencies, and incorporation of these policies in the Memorandum of Understanding
with these agencies; (iii) audit of expenditure of all implementing agencies, including concurrent quarterly
audit, by the project auditor (Chartered Accountants); and (iv) provision to modify these arrangements
based on implementation experience.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of
the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that UPBSN has not previously
prepared project financial statements. Timely preparation and use of the project management reports, and
satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project management. The risk-
mitigation factors are the substantial upfront actions which have been/are being taken on: (i) design of a



Annex 6
Page 9 of 14
comprehensive financial management system; (ii) computerization of the financial management system;
(iii) recruitment of key financial staff to augment financial management capabilities. Pending the
appointment of the qualified professional staff, disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the
basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement
basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the key professional staff have
been recruited and the financial management system is satisfactorily operated.
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation 11 Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          _        _ _Procurement Method                 l
ICB     NCB   Other    NBF          Total
1. Works                                          47.8   36.5      6.6        90.9
(38.1)  (27.9)              (66.0)
2. Goods                                  25.9    5.3    27.2      19.9       78.3
(22.7)  (4.2)   (21.5)              (48.4)
3. Local Transportation, Handling and Storage   29.9      7.2      0.3        37.4
(23.8)          (5.7)               (29.5)
4. Vehicles                                               0.9                 0.9
1(0.7)              (0.7)
5.Consultancies, and training                             21.7                21.7
_(21.7)             (21.7)
6. Incremental staff and operating costs                  11.8                11.8
(7.2)               (7.2)
7. UPBSN Management and Supervision fee                  :20.6                20.6
_(20.6)             (20.6)
8. Agricultural Labor                                        _     25.0       25.0
Total                                     55.8    53.1    125.9    51.8       286.6
(46.5)  (42.3) _(105.3)             (194.1)
Note: NBF =Not Bank-Financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA,



Annex 6
Page 10 of 14
Uttar Pradesh Sodic lands Reclamation II Project
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant and Training Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Consultant                      Selection Method                      (including
Services                                                           contingencies)
Expenditure
Category
_  QCBS  QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firns            8.9      O      0 0    0      0     11.5                    20.4
B. Individuals        0 _           0 0 _                1.3                     1.3
Total    8.9                                 12.8                    21.7
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 6
Page 11 of 14
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project
Annex 6 Table Al(a); Procurement Plan for Consultancies
No                    Particulars                          Mode of              Cost (including contingencies in Rs. Lakh)       Cost (including contigencies in US Dollar '000)
proc.        Year                                               year
.roc.        Year 1     2       3      4      5 6and 7 Total         1     2      3       4      5       6 Total
I Site Identification and community organization
Digitization                               F  Sole source            27.6   6.4    6.8   7.2   7.6              55.7    59.7  13.2  13.5    13.7  13.9              114.0
Subcontractedservices                      F  QCBS                   71.4  71.5   55.7  45.7  18.2             262.5   154.4  147.7  110.4   86.7  33.1             532.4
NGO for community mobilization             F  QCBS                  219.2  233.4  396.9  420.7  446.0  463.2 2179.4  474.0  482.3  786.7   798.3  810.8   806.9  4159.1
Inspection and Soil Testing Charges        F  QCBS                   22.8  37.8   47.5  50.8  46.6    2.6  208.1    49.0  78.2  94.2    96.4  84.6    4.5   407.0
2 Main drain remodeling
Engineering (Design and Survey)            F  QCBS                   48.6  66.3   107.9  98.0                  320.9   105.2  137.0  214.0   185.9                  642.0
Supervision charges                        F  QCBS                   24.3  33.2   54.0  49.0                   160.4   52.6  68.5  107.0   92.9                     321.0
3 Technology Dissemination
Mass media                                 F  Sole source            17.3  18.4   19.6  20.8  22.0              98.1    37.4  38.0  38.8    39.4  40.1              193.7
Technology Validation & Refinement         F  QCBS                   10.9  23.3    18.5   6.6                   59.2   23.6  48.0  36.7    12.4                     120.8
4 Upgrading of farm to market roads
Technical Exaniner                         F  QCBS                   28.8  30.7   32.6  34.6                   126.7   62.3  63.4  64.6   65.7                      256.0
Monitoring of compliance of MOU conditions  F  Sole source            1.2   2.6    2.7                           6.5     2.6   5.3   5.4                             13.3
5 HRD & Institutional Capacity Building of Support Services
Strengthening of Panchayats
Consultants from SIRD on Contract          F  Sole source             2.7                                        2.7     5.9                                          5.9
Evaluation and Survey                      I  Sole source                                          1.4    1.5   2.9                                   2.5     2.6    5.1
Strengthening of local credit services
Institutional strengthening of NGO contract  IF  Sole source         28.3  30.1    32.0  34.0  36.0   38.2  198.6   61.1  62.2  63.4    64.4  65.5    66.6  383.2
Evaluationofcreditservices                 F  Solesource              2.2   2.3    2.5   2.6   2.8    3.0   15.3    4.7   4.8   4.9            5.0   5.1      5.1    29.6
Marketing
Special Studies                            I  Solesource              3.3   5.8    6.2                          15.3    7.1    12   12.2                             31.3
Contracted Services                        F  Sole source                   11.6   12.4   6.6                   30.5             24   24.5    12.4                   60.9
RSACStrengthening                             I  Solesource              9.6  10.2   10.9  11.5  12.2              54.5   20.8  21.1  21.5    21.9  22.3              107.6
6 Adaptive Research
TechnicalProgram                           F  Solesource              7.9  119.6  126.0  136.9  146.1   156.8  693.3    17.0  247.2  249.8  259.8  265.6  273.1  1312.5
Monitoring & Co-ordination Advisory Committee  I  Sole source         5.5   5.8    6.2   6.6   7.0    7.4  38.3    11.8  12.0  12.2   12.4  12.6    12.9   74.0
7 Project Management
Specialist services for Soil monitoring    I  Sole source             2.2   2.3    4.9   2.6   8.3        8.9  29.3      4.7   4.8   9.8       5.0  15.2    15.4   54.9
SpecialistservicesforGWmonitoring          I  Solesource                             1.9   2.0   2.1      2.2   8.1                    3.7    3.7   3.8       3.9    15.1
Biodiversity Monitoring                    F  Sole source                                                 3.2   3.2                                           5.7    5.7
Project Implementation and
Socio-economic impact monitoring         F  QCBS                   174.6  186.0  197.7  209.7  222.5          990.5   377.5  384.3  391.8   398.0  404.6         1956.1
Participatory managementevaluation         F  QCBS                          31.6           35.9          13.6.- 81.1           65.3           68.1           23.7   157.1
Audit Fees                                 F  QCBS                   24.0  25.6   27.2  28.8  30.6   49.5  185.6   51.9  52.8  53.9   54.7  55.6   85.1   354.1
TOTALS                                                             J  732.4  954.5  1170.1 1210.6 1009.4  750.1 5826.7  1583.3 1972.1 2319.0  2296.8 1835.3  1305.5 11312.4
Note: I = Individuals; F = Firm.



Annex 6
Page 12 of 14
Uttar Pradesh Sodic lands Reclamation IT Project
Annex 6, Table Al(b); Procurement Plan for Training
N  Particulars                                  Cost (including contingencies in Rs. Lakh)     f           Cost (including contigencies in US Dollar '000)
0
year                                                 Iyear
._Tecnoloy Disemintion1                          2       3       4       5      6   Total       1   1   2          3      4           5        6  ITotal
1 Technology Dissemination
Beneficiaries Training               335.3   487.5   531.1  577.3  627.2           2558.5   725.1   1007.2   1052.7   1095.5   1140.4                5020.8
Exposurevisitforbeneficiaries         37.9    60.6    64.4   68.3   72.5            303.8    82.0    125.2    127.7    129.7    131.8                 596.5
2 HRD & Institutional Capacity Building of Support
Services
a) UPBSN
Training of staff                    176.4   124.8   114.3   41.1    6.9   4.1   467.6   381.5    257.9    226.6           78.0      12.5   7.1       963.6
Exposurevisitforstaff                232.6   283.8   110.9   41.3                   668.6   503.0    586.3    219.8        78.4                      1387.5
b) Strengthening of line departments
Training of staff                     41.9    18.7    33.3    2.7                    96.5    90.5       38.5     66.0       5.1                       200.2
Exposure visits for staff             95.9   104.6      6.1    6.5                  213.1   207.2    216.1       12.1      12.3                       447.8
c) Strengthening of Inrigation Department
Training of staff                     44.2    74.0    50.3   23.1    9.2            200.7    95.5    152.8       99.7      43.8      16.7             408.4
d) Strengthening of PWD
Training of staff                      9.0      9.6    10.2                          28.8    19.5       19.8     20.2                                  59.5
e) Strengthening of RSAC
Staff training in remote sensing       7.4      7.9     8.4                          23.7    16.0       16.3     16.7                                  49.0
Staff training in GWmonitoring                  6.7    14.2    7.5    8.1   8.6    45.1                 13.8     28.2      14.3      14.6  15.0        85.9
Staff training in soil monitoring                      15.6    7.5    8.1   8.6    39.8                          31.0      14.3      14.6  15.0        74.9
f) Adaptive research training               4.7    12.5    12.7    0.9                    30.9    10.1      25.9      25.2       1.8                        63.0
g) Strengthening of NGOs
Training of staff                     56.3    89.8    45.8   11.5                   203.4   121.6    185.5       90.8      21.8                       419.8
Exposure visit of staff               47.0    53.0      8.6    9.1                  117.6   101.6    109.5       17.0      17.2                       245.3
h) Strengthening of local credit services
Capacitybuildingoffieldstaff          13.3    14.2    15.1   16.0   17.0  18.0    93.5    28.8          29.3     29.9      30.3      30.8  31.4       180.5
i) Strengthening of Panchayats
Training of Panchayat representative &   20.1                                           20.1    43.3                                                      43.3
personnel
Study tour                               7.1      7.6                                  14.6    15.3       15.6                                           30.9
j) Training for Marketing                   2.6     2.8      3.0    6.3                   14.7      5.7      5.8       5.9      11.9                        29.2
k) Michigan State Training Program         42.5      1.3     1.4                          45.1    91.9        2.6      2.7                                  97.2
TOTALS                                 1174.2  1359.4  1045.4  819.1  749.0  39.3  5186.1  2538.6   2808.1   2072.2   1554.4   1361.4  68.5    10403.3
Note: It is expected that about 10% of the total amount ($1 million) would be through individuals; and 90% (S9 4 million) would be through firms



Annex 6
Page 13 of 14
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure      Contract Value          Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to
Category         (Threshold)                                   Prior Review
1. Works         >=US$200,000            NCB                   US$200,000 and above
Civil Work       >=US$20,000 ($47.8m)   NCB                    None"
<US$20,000 ($36.5m)     Direct                None
Contracting/Quotation
2. Goods
Goods,           >=US$200,000 ($25.9m)   ICB                   US$200,000 and above
Equipment,       >=US$20,000 ($5.3m)   NCB                     None"
Furniture,       <US$20,000 ($4.1m)      Shopping              None
Supplies,        <US$ 10,000             Direct contracting    None
Materials        (<$50,000 for seeds and
fertilizers) ($23.1 m)
3. Vehicles      >=US$100,000            ICB                   US$100,000 and above
<US$100,000 (US$0.9 m)  Shopping              None
Procedures/DGS&D
rate contract.
4. Contractual                           In accordance with    US$100,000 and above
Service,                                 IDA/Bank guidelines    for firms
Consultancies,                                                 US$50,000 for
Studies, Training,                                             individuals
Fellowships etc.      c
" First two contracts for goods and works between $ 20,000 and $ 200,000 would be subject to
prior review.



Annex 6
Page 14 of 14
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure         Amount in US$                   Financing %age
Category               million
Civil Works                      58.0                80%
Goods                            44.9       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Local Transportation             26.8                80%
costs of Gypsum
(Note I)
Consultancy Services              19.9              100%
and Training
UPBSN Management                  18.8              100%
and Supervision Fee
(Note 2)
Incremental Staff and             6.8       80% until March 31, 2001; 60% until March
Operating Costs                             31,2003; 40% until March 31, 2005; and
(Note 3)                                    20% until September 30, 2005
Maintenance Costs of              0.4       80% until March 31, 2002; 60% until March
Roads                                       31,2003; 40% until March 31, 2004; and
20% until March 31, 2005
Maintenance Costs of              0.6       80% until March 31, 2001; 60% until March
Drains                                      31,2002; 40% until March 31, 2003; and
20% until March 31, 2004
Unallocated                      17.9    __                       __         _
Total            194.1
Notes:
I.     Local Transportation costs of gypsum would include transportation costs of gypsum from
supplier's factory to project site (specifically from supplier's factory to rail head, and from rail head to
project site), as well as related handling and storage charges until the gypsum is distributed to intended
beneficiaries.
2.     "UPBSN Management and Supervision Fee" means an output-based fee to be paid to UPBSN for
the cost of individuals employed by UPBSN for implementing the Project. The fee would be calculated at
Rs.5100 per hectare of land reclaimed during the first year (99/00). This rate would be adjusted annually
to reflect changes in the wholesale price index.
3.     Incremental staff and operating costs means incremental costs of: (i) salaries, allowances and
travel costs of additional staff of Irrigation and Public Works Departments of GOUP, RSAC and UPCAR
engaged on a full-time basis in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) for the operation and
maintenance of equipment, vehicles and offices incurred by UPBSN, relevant line departments of GOUP
(Agriculture, Irrigation, Public Works and Panchayati Raj), RSAC and UPCAR for purposes of
implementing the project.



Annex 7
Pagel of I
ANNEX 7
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planined              Actual
Bank Budget                                        454.1                353.3
Cr. 251 0-IN (Project Preparation Funds)                                 62.0
Total                                        415.3
B. Project Schedule                               Planied               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              11/14/1997            11114/97
Appraisal mission departure                     06/30/1998             06/30/98
Negotiations                                     08/31/1998             10/19/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/1999
Prepared by: UTTAR PRADESH BHUMI SUDHOR NIGAM (UPBSN), Remote Sensing
Application Center (RSAC), Uttar Pradesh Council for Agriculltural Research (UPCAR),
Govemment Line Departments - Irrigation, Public Works and Agriculture
Preparation assistance: FAO Investment Center, Project Preparation Funds from Uttar Pradesh
Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (Cr. 2510-IN) and India Country Department
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
J. A. Perumalpillai-Essex                  Economist
A.K. Seth                                  Agriculturist
M. Balasubramanian                         Agriculturist
T.K. Balakrishnan                          Financial Analyst
S.Satish                                   Social Development Officer
C.S. Nawathe                               Road Specialist
S.Rajagopal                                Water Resources Engineer
E.V. Jagannathan                           Water Resources Engineer
S.Krishnan                                 Procurement Engineer
H. Imamura                                 Lawyer
S. Salman                                  Lawyer
W. Marke                                   Disbursement Officer
S. Vani                                    Disbursement Officer
P. Jipp                                    Forester
R. Crooks                                  Environmental Specialist
B. Scott                                   Team Assistaint
T. Karmiris                                Team Assistant
V. Peters                                  Team Assistant



Annex 8
Pagel of I
ANNEX 8
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT II PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Volume I - Land Reclamation and Farm Development
Volume IA - Mapping, Soil and Water Monitoring
Volume I B - Participatory Management
Volume II - Main Drain Remodeling
Volume III - Technology Dissemination
Volume IV - Upgrading Farm to Market Roads
Volume V - HRD and Institutional Capacity Building and Support Services
Volume VI - Adaptive Research
Volume VII - Project Management
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Supervision Reports for Cr. 2510 -IN, Sodic Lands Reclamation Project
Implementation and Monitoring Reports for Cr. 2510
C. Other
Preparation Reports for Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project II:
J. D. Rhoades:: Appropriateness of Reclamation Technology and Methodology
R.S. Kanwar: Environmental Impact Analyses
S. Thiruvengadachari: Use of Remote Sensing and GIS
J.S.P. Yadav: Adaptive Research
Niel. Boyle: Institutional Study for Drainage, Government of Uttar Pradesh
AzadAzad: Drainage Network Component
S.R. Tambe: Upgrading Farm to Market Roads
TARU Leading Edge: Social Assessment
B. Deren:    Economic and Financial Analyses
Indian Institute of Management: Baseline Survey and PRA surveys ( 30 villages)
G.S. Dutt: Corporate study
Other Reports:
Water and Power Consultancy Services (WAPCOS): Study on the Efficiency of Shallow
Tubewells (05/98)
Mott McDonald: Special study on Drainage (Vols. I -XI)
Proceedings of Workshops held at UPBSN:
Efficiency of shallow tubewells -(28/01/98)
Use of press mud for reclamation (23/06/98)
Technology Dissemination (18/06/98)
Drainage study (28/04/98)
Indian Instituteof Management: Socio-economic Impact Assessments (1993-98)
Implementation Monitoring Progress reports (1993-98)
Banker's Institute and Credit Management: Group Savings and Credit Management
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Page I of 4
ANNEX 9
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
Fiscal                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID    Year            Borrower                Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancel-  Undis-  Original  Forn
lationa   bursed              Revised
Number of Closed Projects: 322
Active Proiects
IN-PE-10496     1998   GOI                       ORISSA HEALTH SYS          0.00    76.40      0.00    77.91         0.00     0.00
IN-Pe-10561     1998   GOI                       NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY       96.80   100.00      0.00   197.90         0.00     0.00
IN-PE-35160     1998   GOI                       HARYANA POWER APL-I       60.00      0.'00    0.00    53.01         5.00     0.00
IN-PE-35169     1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   U.P. FORESTRY                  0.00    52.94      0.00    48.75         -.33     0.00
IN-PE-35824     1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT           79.90    50.00      0.00   130.86         0.00     0.00
IN-PE-35827     1998   GOI                       WoMEN C CHILD              0.00   300.00      0.00   304.80         0.00     0.00
DEVLPH
IN-PE-38021     1998   GOI                       DPEP III (DIRAR)           0.00   152.00      0.00   147.31         7.78     0.00
IN-PE-49385     1998   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   AP ECON                      301.30   241.90      0.00   547.06         0.00     0.00
RESTRUCTURIN
IN-PE-49477     1998   GOVERNMeNT OF INDIA   KERALA FORESTRY                0.00    39.00      0.00    39.45         0.00     0.00
IN-PE-50638     1998                             UP BASIC ED II             0.00    59.40      0.00    46.97        -2.13     0.00
IN-PE-9979      1998   CIL                       COAL SECTOR REHAB        530.00      2.00     0.00   515.00        15.88     0.00
IN-PE-10473     1997                             TUBERCULOSIS               0.00   142.40      0.00   129.88        32.69     0.00
CONTROL
IN-PE-10511     1997   GOI                       MALARIA CONTROL            0.00   164.80      0.00   157.29         9.93     0.00
IN-PE-10531     1997   GOI                       REPRODUCTIVE               0.00   248.30      0.00   238.82        27.48     0.00
HEALTH1
IN-PE-35158     1997   GOI                       AP IRRIGATION rII        175.00   150.00      0.00   262.02        11.20     0.00
IN-PE-36062     1997   GOx                       ECODEVELOPMENT             0.00    28.00      0.00    23.34          .81     0.00
IN-PE-43728     1997   GOI                       ENV CAPACITY BLDG          0.00    50.00      0.00    44.45         3.84     0.00
TA
IN-PE-44449      1997                            RURAL WOMEN'S DEV          0.00    19.50      0.00    18.49         5.36     0.00
IN-PE-45600      1997   GO                      TA STS RD INFRA           51.50      0.00     0.00    40.27        13.77     0.00
DEV
IN-PE-49301      1997   GOI                      A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE        50.00   100.00     0.00   137.55        31.20     0.00
IN-PE-9995      1997   GOI                       STATE HIGHWAYS           350.00      0.00     0.00   335.31        13.31     0.00
I (AP)
IN-PE-10480     1996   GOVT OF INDIA             B SEWAGE DISPOSAL        167.00    25.00      0.00   130.02        72.26     0.00
IN-PE-10484     1996   GOI                       UP RURAL WATER            59.60      0.00     0.00    53.79         5.38     0.00
IN-PE-10485     1996   GOVT OF INDIA             HYDROLOGY PROJECT          0.00   142.00      0.00   106.37        39.64     0.00
IN-PE-10529     1996   GOI                       ORISSA WRCP                0.00   290.90      0.00   181.25        -8.26     0.00
IN-PE-35170     1996   GOI                       ORISSA POWER SECTOR    350.00        0.00     0.00   332.67        50.17     0.00
IN-PE-35821     1996   GOI                       DISTRICT PRIM EDUC         0.00   425.20      0.00   355.32        23.09     0.00
2
IN-PE-35825     1996   GOI                       STATE HEALTH SYS II        0.00   350.00      0.00   290.75        71.11     0.00
IN-PE-39935     1996   ILCFS                     ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE    200.00        5.00     0.00   179.66        71.00     0.00
IN-PE-43310     1996   GOI                       COAL ENVCSOCIAL             0.00    63.00     0.00    52.00        10.20     0.00
MIT.
IN-PE-10461     1995   GO0                       MADRAS WATER SUP II    275.80        0.00   189.30    64.87       127.13     5.79
IN-PE-10463     1995   GOI                       INDUS POLLUTION          143.00    25,00      0.00   147.14        63.70     0.00
PREV
IN-PE-10464     1995   GOI                       DISTRICT PRIMARY ED        0.00   260.30      0.00   146.25        27.44     0.00
IN-PE-10476     1995   GOI                       TAMIL NADU WRCP             0.00   282.90     0.00   232.86        99.13     0.00
IN-PE-10489     1995   GOVERNMENT OF INDIA   AP 1ST REF. HEALTH              0.00   133.00     0.00    86.21        18.08     0.00
s
IN-PE-10503     1995                             AGRIC HUMAN RES            0.00    59.50      0.00    38.85        26.70     0.00
DEVT
IN-PE-10506     1995   GOI                       MP FORESTRY                 0.00    58.00     0.00    28.03         7.12     0.00
IN-PE-10522     1995   GO                       ASSAM RURAL INFRA           0.00   126.00     0.00   105.47        37.24     0.00
IN-PE-10563     1995   GOVT OF INDIA             FINANCIAL SECTOR         700.00      0.00   200.00   326.80    -173.20       0.00
DEV
IN-PE-10448      1994   GOI                      FORESTRY RESEARCH           0.00    47.00     0.00    25.98        36.52     1.66
ED
IN-PE-10449     1994   000                       ANDHRA PRADESH              0.00    77.40      0.00    35.21       14.02      0.00
FORESTRY
IN-PE-10455     1994   GOI                       BLINDNESS CONTROL           0.00   117.80     0.00    90.66        34.79     0.00
IN-PE-10457     1994   GOI                       POPULATION IX               0.00    88.60     0.00    55.92        14.74     0.00
IN-PE-34162     1994                             MANARASHTRA                 0.00   246.00    29.19    13.66        38.98      9.65
EARTHQUA



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
Difference
Between expected
Original Aomunt in US5 Millions          and actual
Fiscal                                                                                        disbursemnta a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower                Purpose
i3DD      IDA    Cancel-  Undis-  Original  Forn
lations  bursed              Revised
XN-PF-9870      1994   GOVT. OF INDIA          CONTAINER TRANSPORT       94.00     0.00     0.00   81.02        71.03     0.00
IN-PE-9964      1994   GOX                     WATER RES CONSOLID         0.00   258.00     0.00   160.66       70.86     0.00
H
IN-PE-10407    1993   GOI                      ADP - RAJASTSAN            0.00  106.00      0.00    34.52       28.12     0.00
IN-PE-10408    1993   GO                       8IHAR PLATEAU             0.00   117.00     0.00    71.59       77.19     0.00
IN-Pt-10410    1993   001                       RENEWABLE RSSOURCES    75.00   115.00       0.00    76.19       98.46     0.00
IN-PE-10416    1993                             PGC POWER SYSTEM        350.00     0.00     0.00   120.00      102.06     0.00
IN-PF-10418    1993   GOI                       KARNASTAA WS 6            0.00    92.00     0.00    56.98       51.44     0.00
ENV/S
IN-PE-10423    1993   NTPC                     NTPC POWER              400.00      0.00     0.00   75.81        72.55     0.00
GEgNRATIO
IN-PE-10424    1993   GOl                      NATL LEPROSY               0.00    85.00     9.07    35.69       38.49     5.38
ELDCZN&
IN-Pg-9955      1993   GOI                     USTAR PRADESH BASIC        0.00   165.00     0.00    39.08       -1.71        -
IN-PE-9959      1993   GOI                      RUBBER                    0.00    92.00    36.58   27.39        56.02     6.82
IN-PE-9961      1993   GOI                     UP SODIC LANDS             0.00    54.70     0.00   21.98        12.57     0.00
RECLA
IN-Pi-9977      1993   001                      1CDS II (BIEAR C         0.00   194.00      0.00  143.05        90.99    97.46
MP)
IN-PE-10390    1992                            MARARASSTRA                0.00   124.00    16.18    47.14       62.03    41.36
FORESTRY
IN-PE-10393     1992   GOVT OF INDIA           AIDS PREVENTION AND        0.00    84.00     0.00    13.11       13.46     0.00
IN-P9-9921      1992   GOI i STATES             SHRIMP a FISH             0.00    85.00    48.51    18.39       65.12    13.81
CULTUR
IN-PE-9946      1992   GOI                     NAT. HIGHWAYS II        153.00   153.00      0.00   177.39       83.26     0.00
IN-PE-9963      1992   OOI                     POPULATION VIII           0.00    79.00      0.00    61.63       51.07     0.00
IN-PE-9877      1991   GOI                     DAM SAFETY               23.00   130.00    50.03    50.01        98.05    10.02
IN-PE-9906      1991   GOI                      IND POLLUTION          124.00    31.60      0.00    20.03       10.72     0.00
CONTRO
IN-PE-9958      1991     GOVT OF TAM5L NADU  AGR.DEV.I (TN)             20.00    92.80      0.00    25.68       24.90     0.00
IN-PE-9988      1991   GO                      TECH EDVC II              0.00   307.10    51.37    94.96      144.89    49.25
XN-PE-9860      1990   GOI                     WTRSN PLAINS               7.00    55.00     7.00     8.59       10.34     3.34
IN-PE-9882      1990   GOI                     WTRSH HILLS               13.00    75.00    13.00    21.36       29.60    16.60
IN-PE-9982      1990   GOI                     NOR REG TRANSM          485.00      0.00     0.00   194.40      194.39     0.00
IN-PE-9869      1989   GOI                     NATSPA JHAXRI HYDRO   485.00        0.00     0.00   140.34      140.33     0.00
IN-PE-9941      1989   GOI                     FHAARASHTRA POWER       400.00      0.00    62.67    36.66       99.34    24.87
IN-PE-9990      1989   GOVT OF INDIA           VOCATIONAL TRAINING       30.00   250.00   146.15    16.86      157.70     6.70
Total                                                                 6,248.9  7,544.    859.05  8,446.    2,838.04   167.48
0       44                58
Active Proiects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              4,320.96          31,693.54           36,014.50
of which has been repaid:                202.63           9,919.63           10,122.26
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             12,731.61          21,147.21           33,878.82
Amount sold                     :                0.00              133.77             133.77
Of which repaid              :                0.00              133.77             133.77
Total Undisbursed               :            8,446.58               80.28           8,526.86
a. Intended disbursements to date manus actual d.sbursements to date as pro3ected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90         MUSCO                   0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93         HDFC                   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00
1981                  Nagarjuna Steel         0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96   ITW Signode             0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92      TISCO                   3.47   15.37    0.00    0.00    3.47   15.37    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93            M&M                      .50    6.49    0.00    2.00      .50    6.49    0.00    2.00
1984/90/94            India Lease              .66     .86    0.00    0.00      .66     .86    0.00    0.00
1984/91               Bihar Sponge            13.39    .68    0.00    0.00   13.39      .68    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-City Mills           .48    0.00    0.00    0.00      .48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-CECL                 .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-NB Footwear          .19    0.00    0.00    0.00      .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-STG                  .37    0.00    0.00    0.00      .37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                  EXB-TAN                  .03    0.00    0.00    0.00      .03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94         GESCO                   0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95         India Equipment          .43     .77    0.00    1.07      .43     .77    0.00    1.07
1987                  Hindustan               5.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93         Titan Watches            .96    1.03    0.00    0.00      .96    1.03    0.00    0.00
1988/90/92            Tata Telecom            0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00      .10    0.00    0.00
1988/94               GKN Invel               0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00
1989                  AEC                     11.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  UCAL                    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94            Tata Electric          29.64    0.00    0.00    0.00   29.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91               Gujarat State           6.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95               JSB India               0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00
1990                  HOEL                    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00      .28    0.00    0.00
1990                  TDICI-VECAUS 11         0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1990/92               CESC                   43.36    0.00    0.00   60.30   43.36    0.00    0.00   60.30
1990/93/94            IL & FS                21.00    3.11    1.81    7.00   21.00    3.11    1.81    7.00
1990/94               ICICI-IFGL              0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30    0.00    0.00
1990/95               ICICI-SPIC Fine         0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
1991                  BSES                    17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/93               Triveni                 0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1991/96               VARUN                   0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00
1992                  Indus VC Mgt Co         0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00
1992                  Indus VCF               0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Info Tech Fund          0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64    0.00    0.00
1992                  SKF Bearings            3.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.82    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93               Arvind Mills            0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97            Ispat Industries       78.31    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.45    5.77    0.00    0.00
1992/95               IL&FS Venture           0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97            NICCO-UCO               6.50      .50    0.00    0.00    2.50     .50    0.00    0.00
1993/94/96            Indo Rama               19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87   19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87
1993/97               20TH Century            14.47     .80    0.00    2.13   14.47     .80    0.00    2.13
1994                  Centurion Growth        0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1994                  Chowgule                13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09   13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09
1994                  Crdcap Asset Mgt        0.00      .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32    0.00    0.00
1994                  DLF Cement              8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75    8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75



Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Gujarat Ambuja          0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00
1994                  Taurus Starshare        0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00
1994/97               GVK                    39.17    8.30    0.00   37.26   29.17    7.45    0.00   37.26
1994/98               Global Trust            5.00    3.19    5.00    0.00    0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00
1995                  Centurion Bank          0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00
1995                  EXIMBANK               20.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  GE Capital             11.25    5.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1995                  Prism Cement            15.00    5.02    0.00   13.50   15.00    5.02    0.00   13.50
1995                  Rain Calcining          19.25    5.47    0.00    0.00   19.25    5.46    0.00    0.00
1995                  Sara Fund               0.00    6.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00    0.00
1995/98               RPG Communicatns        0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00
1996                  CVF Oil Gas-AL          8.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  India Direct Fnd        0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1996                  Indus 11                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Indus Mauritius         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Moser Baer              5.70      .60    0.00    0.00    5.70     .60    0.00    0.00
1996                  United Riceland         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Asian Electronic        0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1997                  CEAT                   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Duncan Hospital         7.00      .84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  EEPL                    0.00      .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03    0.00    0.00
1997                  Owens Coming           25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  SAPL                    0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00    0.00
1997                  SREI                    15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Walden-Mgt India        0.00      .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  WIV                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .88    0.00    0.00
1998                  IDFC                    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998                  TCW/ICICI               0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  541.81  230.48    6.81  249.97  438.95  197.42    1.81  164.97
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  CESC 11 -BLINC          0.00    0.00    0.00   37.00
1998                  IL&FS (IlI)-RI          0.00    0.00    3.11    0.00
1998                  IVCAAF                  0.00    5.74    0.00    0.00
1995                  SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE        0.00      .86    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    6.60    3.11   37.00



ANNEX 10                                                           Annex 10
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION 11 PROJECr                                                    Page I of 2
India at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South      Low-   r
India     Asia  Income        Developmentdiamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (miiDons)                       960.9      1.289     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     390        390       350
GNP (Atlas methodr, US$ bilhlons)                      375       502       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          1.7       19        2.1
Labor force (%)                                        2.0        2.2       2.3   I GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1191-97)                               capib\|                       enrolment
Poverty (% of populaton below national povedy line)     36
Urban population (% of total population)                27        27         28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        62        62         59                       _
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                63        71         78
Chid malnutrition (% of children under 5)               66        63         61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  81         77        71
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                    48         51        47
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age populaton)    100         99        91      _____Inda   - Lowincome group
Male                                                 110       109        100
Female                                                90        89        81       _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
'1976    1966      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                           95.0    229.1      359.7     380.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                20.9     23.2       25.2      24.0                     Trade
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP                 7.2      6.0       11.8      11.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.7     20.4       21.9      20.2
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.2     20.8       23.9      22.3
Current account balance/GDP                   1.4      -2.6      -1.4       -1.8     0     t
Interest payments/GDP                          03  0.7            1.1       0.9      Domea4c                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                               15.2     21.0       26.0      24.8
Total debt service/exports                   15.3      32.0      24.3      20.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                        19.6
Present value of debtexports                                    135.6
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996      1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.4      5.7       7.4       4.9
GNP per capita                       2.1      3.8       5.7       3.5                       India       Lowencome group
Exports of goods and services        3.4     11.8      10.1       3.8                                                     ___
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GOP)
Agnculture                                   38.5      31.7      27.0      25.3      30.
Industry                                     25.0     28.4       30.0      30.1     20 
Manufacturing                               17.1     17 8       19.4      19.5    _0
Services                                     36.5      39.9      43.0      44.6      0
0~     2    9    94   95  9M   97
Private consumption                          68.6     67.8       67.8      69.8    .20
General govemment consumption                 9.7      11.8      10.3      10.0                     GDI    --'  GOP
Imports of goods and services                 6.4       8.7      15.1      15.2
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Girowth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.6       3.1       7.9       -1.5   '4 -
Industry                                       5,3      6.7       6.4       5 5     30 
Manufacturing                                5.5      7.0       7.4        5.8    20 -.
Services                                      5.4       7.2       8.1       8.9    is  
Private consumption                           4.7       5.1       8.2       8.5                  93
General govemment consumption                 6.9       3.5       5.1       0.3 3   10                                  97
Gross domestic investment                     4.2       7.3      -0.6       -0.7   -20 '
Imports of goods and services                 8.7       7.4      -5.4       9.0                   Exports     :-Imports
Gross national product                        4.3       5.7       7.5       5.2
Note- 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wil
be incomplete.



ANNEX 10                                                             Annex 10
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT                                                      Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Infttlon(%)
Domestic pdlces
(% change)                                                                             T
Consumer prices                                         8.7        9.3       6.8     i
Implicit GDP deflator                          5.9      6.5        6.3       5.6    to
Govemment fOnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 i o    _     __._,_ _
Current revenue                                  ..    25.2       23.4      24.0             92   93   94   9s   se    9?
Current budget balance                           ..      1.7       0.6       0.7                   GDP deflator    C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    13.3        9.3       9.9    _
TRADE
(USS1millions)                                          9t6       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   9.738    33.469    34.700      60.000T
Tea                                            ..    451         279       405      500004
Iron                                           ..    428         483       474      4 000
Manufactures                                   ..   6,458    25.490    26.168       0       
Total imports (cif)                          5,390   17.740    48,063    50.240      30000
Food                                           ..   1.068      1.477     1.567     20000        _         _
Fuel and energy                                ..   2,187     10,036     7,595      0000
Capital goods                                  .,   5,074      7,735     6,743         0
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      95         97        92
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                       .,      75        112       110                tExports      Wlmpons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..    127          87        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Currnt account balance to GDP ratio (%M
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                6,800   13,637    41.732    44.102       0
Imports of goods and services                6,080   19,962    55.696    59,236
Resource balance                               720   -6,325    -13.964   -15,134
Net income                                     -98   -2.045     -3.584    -3,389
Net current transfers                          692    2.327     12.367    11.830
Current account balance                       1.314   -6,043    45.181    -6.693     .2 -
Financing items (net)                        -1,314    5.971       -46     3.097
Changes in net reserves                          0       72      5.227     3.596     .3
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)            ..   7.200    26.718    29.651
Conversion rate (DEC. localWISS)                8.9     12.8      35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         14,471   48,124    93,431    94,404
IBRD                                         456    3,475      8.768     8,138                  G 6.977   A 8.138
IDA                                        3.333   10,529    17.616    17,912
Total debt service                            1.178    5.273    12.669    11.257                      _19
IBRD                                          88      469      1.514     1.410                                     B 17,912
IDA                                           30      152        365       381
Composnion of net resource flows                                                     F: 31,503                        i
Official grants                                       403        410       351
Official creditors                         1,058    1.404       -200     3,395                                       37
Private creditors                            -14    2.793       -558    -2,042                                     0 3.760
Foreign direct investment                      ,.    208       2.696     3.197
Portfolio equity                                        0      3.312     1.828 
E 25.450
World Bank program
Commitments                                  315    1.79n      ..125     2.094     A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                610    .  .     1.592       1,337     B - IDA    D - Other multtiateral   F - Private
Princpal repayments                           ee      235      1.074     1.071     C - IMF                       G - short-term
Net flows                                    544    1,062        518       267    _
Interest payments                             52      386        804       721
Net transfers                                492      676       -287      -455
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/15/98



12'                 f8'                                      0                                       2 ,                                                     32-
.2 78                   ST                                      hO                       INDIA
HIMACHAL                                                                                     UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS
PRADESH                    C                                                                         RECLAMATION 11 PROJECT
_-                                                                                              J  PROJECT DISTRICTS
V -  >                                                                EXECUTING AGENCY HEADQUARTERS
- ,                                                      _    SODIC LANDS
STATE CAPITAL
DISTRICT BGUNDARIES
Nm   4Pl-=nRADL'=      t      ,tR.        -1"C         ,*
! .-. 0 < - - -   STATE BOUNDARIES
,TM,C-VAPH j                                   - - -- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
fSA                   .        -..'                                        /       \-j                                                                       3
SAnALA PU=R HARC 'A          P .1M- 
MUZAFFARNAv'.R  ;                                              r
:t A54                                        NALR.J  TA -- wS <SSj * 
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T   a)
AES                                          I~~~~1LI     
GH-AZ;ABA ...... iNPAGAR, <y' AMU .(
DELHI      H.yTATM
$NAGA,'           ,                     BARF!! PY                        ;'
BU .ANDSH1AHR = 
HARYANA.
L AtP        - 5   ;                                   LAK!MPUR                                      I28
-28                                                        S@a     m f:2 -it . '  oP-  KHFR
SHRAWASTl
, ,FRRL KH     a             t S!APR     BIAHR ACM   R  L
PIROZ   D= =SIDDARIH-NAGAR   MAARA
OONFFA                 (F~~MAARAi 
AG,RA         ZBA                       H+                          ,          _         GONDA       .                  GANJ, 
RARA BAR4Kl
Lua/tnow ~ ~ ~~~~ks NA -AGAR 
RAJASTHAN    /                                   i=O'AKE                                                             F       -O                     .
-,                      NPJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F4A4                              AA
24't                                                                                                                   MMAF '     'MA''"  ' 
MAHYAL        /R                                                                          ALAL'                   j
MRADHYA                     M                    MP     HY      PA   'P
Z ~   ~       ~       ~       C                                                                                                 C-smfofeeoJhslnSroorm   dsmmo     5 5   5 IOIE
PRADESHMADHA   PADENPK FD/HFA 
aiDHO \ /8                 /I
sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
_lL    NA ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    B-~
Thh ato snot padaced y the Mp Desig LInAa/She W0d Bank.    25  50    5   105 RLGMTTER
Th=      p-0    7dyW ..                                     ST.~i.T.Wdb.k    25827                                                                 84=KLOFrR



