Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3152 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3152 IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar 
Pradesh) and Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN) with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to Uttar Pradesh, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith among the Association, Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan, 
agreed with the Association, for the periodic monitoring, throughout the Project 
period, of the input of the Project activities;  
(b)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Uttar 
Pradesh (as hereinafter defined) and UPBSN (as hereinafter defined), which begins on 
April 1 of a calendar year and ends on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(c)
“ha” means hectares; 
(d)
“Line Departments” means the Departments of Uttar Pradesh participating 
in the implementation of the Project; 
(e)
“Main drains” means the drainage system maintained by the Irrigation 
Department, and discharging into a natural water course;  
(f)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization;
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(h)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
the Borrower, Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN for the Project, dated August 17, 1998, and 
including time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the 
Association; 
(i)
“Road Maintenance Policy” means the policy set forth in the letter dated 
September 19, 1998 from Uttar Pradesh to the Association for the maintenance of the 
road network in Uttar Pradesh; 
(j)
“Rs” means Rupees in the currency of the Borrower; 
(k)
“RSAC” means Remote Sensing Application Centre of Uttar Pradesh; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement; 
(m)
“UPBSN” means Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (or Uttar Pradesh Land 
Development Corporation), a government company established under the Companies Act, 
1956, as amended to date, and operating according to its Memorandum and Articles of 
Association dated March 30, 1978, as amended to date;
(n)
“UPCAR” means Uttar Pradesh Council of Agricultural Research, a society 
established and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, as amended to 
date; and 
(o)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State of the 
Borrower, or any successor thereto. Section 1.03. Each reference in the General 
Conditions to the Project implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to 
each of Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2009 and ending December 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2018 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
financial 
management and accounting practices, records and 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such fiscal 
year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V  
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Uttar Pradesh or UPBSN shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Uttar Pradesh or UPBSN will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
Any change shall have been made in the Memorandum and Articles of 
Association of UPBSN so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of UPBSN to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
Page  6
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the financial management system referred to 
in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement has been adopted. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN, and is legally binding 
upon Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, 110001, 
India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Page  7
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   42,300,000
80%
(2)
Goods                   32,800,000
 
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Local transportation
    19,600,000
80%
costs of gypsum
(4)
Consultants’ services   14,500,000
100%
and training
(5)
UPBSN management        13,700,000
100%
and supervision fee
(6)
Incremental staff        5,000,000
80% until
and operating costs
March 31, 2001;
60% until
March 31, 2003;
40% until
March 31, 2005;
and 20% until
September 30, 2005
(7)
Maintenance costs
       300,000
80% until
of roads
March 31, 2002;
60% until
March 31, 2003;
40% until
March 31, 2004;
and 20% until
March 31, 2005
Page  8
(8)
Maintenance costs
400,000
80% until
of drains
March 31, 2001;
60% until
March 31, 2002;
40% until
March 31, 2003;
and 20% until
March 31, 2004
(9)
Unallocated
    13,100,000
   ___________
TOTAL
   141,700,000
   ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “UPBSN management and supervision fee” means an output-based fee 
to be paid to UPBSN for the costs of individuals employed by UPBSN for purposes of 
implementing the Project and to be calculated at the rate of Rs 5,100 for each ha of 
land reclaimed during Fiscal Year 99/00, such rate for each ha of land reclaimed 
during each subsequent Fiscal Year to be adjusted to reflect a change in the 
Borrower’s wholesale price index from the immediately preceding Fiscal Year; 
(d)
the term “incremental staff and operating costs” means the incremental 
costs (A) for salaries, allowances and travel costs of additional staff of the 
Irrigation Department, the Public Works Department, RSAC and UPCAR engaged on a full 
time basis in the implementation of the Project and (B) for the operation and 
maintenance of equipment, vehicles and offices incurred by UPBSN, the Agriculture 
Department, the Irrigation Department, the Panchayati Raj Department, the Public Works 
Department, RSAC and UPCAR for purposes of implementing the Project;
(e)
the term “maintenance costs of roads” means the costs of works 
subcontracted by the Public Works Department for the maintenance of rural roads under 
the Project; and 
(f)
the term “maintenance costs of drains” means the costs of works 
subcontracted by the Irrigation Department for the maintenance of main drains under 
the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works or 
local transportation cost of gypsum under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; 
(b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants, 
respectively; (c) training and fellowships; and (d) incremental staff and operating 
costs, and maintenance costs of roads and drains, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN in reversing 
the process of water-induced land degradation (salinization, sodification, groundwater 
Page  9
depletion) and loss of soil fertility, which have resulted in the declining 
productivity of foodgrains, through sustainable reclamation of sodic lands and 
prevention of further sodicity in selected districts of Uttar Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Land Reclamation and On-Farm Development
Selection and reclamation of about 150,000 ha of sodic lands through: 
(i) formation of water user groups; (ii) planning, design, construction and/or 
improvement of link and field drains; (iii) provision of shallow tubewells and 
pumpsets to leach salts and to support crop growth; (iv) on-farm development 
consisting of land leveling and bunding; (v) application of chemical/organic 
amendments to the soil; and (vi) input support for crop production.
Part B:
Main Drain Remodeling and Maintenance
Remodeling and maintenance of about 5,750 km of main drains. 
Part C:
Technology  Dissemination
Establishment of a demand driven technology dissemination system (extension 
services) through: (i) support for social capacity enhancement through mobilization 
and participation of farming communities; (ii) changes in institutional and 
operational arrangements at the district, block levels and below through establishment 
of multi-disciplinary teams drawn from research, extension and farming communities; 
(iii) preparation of strategic research and extension plans for each district using 
participatory approaches; (iv) development and implementation of a program of human 
capital development of public functionaries of cooperating agencies, including NGOs 
and farming communities; and (v) dissemination of information on effective land and 
water management practices with a focus on drainage.
Part D:
Rural Road Upgrading
Upgrading of about 700 km of farm to market rural roads connecting villages to 
the highway/district road network.
Part E:
Human Resource Development and Institutional Capacity Building
Provision of (i) training of staff in UPBSN, RSAC, line departments, NGOs, 
farmers, banks and other institutions, and (ii) capital investment necessary for 
executing services in support of Project activities.
Part F:
Adaptive Research
Carrying out of adaptive research for improving existing technology, 
diversification of cropping systems and development of systems for preventing further 
expansion of sodicity and key research to achieve efficiency and cost effectiveness in 
reclamation through establishment of a competitive agricultural research program and 
linkages with national and international scientists and institutions.
Part G:
Project Management
(i)
Strengthening UPBSN through provision of office equipment, management and 
service fee, civil works, consultants’ services and training.
(ii)
Carrying out of a program for monitoring environmental impacts of the Project 
activities in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.  
(iii)
Carrying out of a program for monitoring and evaluation of the overall progress 
of the Project, including agriculture and socio-economic impact assessment.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if at any time the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  11
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if at any time the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
