Report No. PID6100
Project Name                     India-Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands (@+) ...
Reclamation II Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       INPE50646
Borrower                         Government of India
Implementing Agency              Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Niagm
Government of Uttar Pradesh,
Lucknow
Contact                          Mr.C.B. Paliwal
Managing Director
Tel. 91-522- 393510, 395270-76
Fax: 91-522-392856
EM: UPBSNLKO@lwlvsnl.net.in
Projected  Appraisal             July 1998
Projected Board Date             December 1998
1. Country and Sector Background
Uttar Pradesh (UP) covers half the Indo-Gangetic plain which is one of India's
most fertile tracts and its agricultural heartland. UP has nearly 17 million
hectares under cultivation and accounts for 10t of India's net sown area and
25t of the total irrigated area.   It produces nearly 20t of India's
foodgrains. Despite the existing and potential wealth, UP is the third
poorest state in India with a per capita income of US$200 and a poverty index
(head count) of 40w.  More than 80t of its people are rural and 75t are
dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. Of the total operational
holdings of 19 million in UP, about 16.8 million are classed as small (1-2 ha)
or marginal (less than 1 ha).
A major concern in the state is the declining productivity of foodgrains,
especially of rice and wheat. Annual productivity during the period 1980-90 to
1990-95 has declined, for wheat from 2.4w to 1.6w and for rice from 5.2w to
1.09 respectively.
Key rural development sector issues remain to be addressed by the Government
of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP). Some of the issues include: distortions in input and
output prices resulting in misallocation of resources; private sector being
crowded out with the heavy involvement of the public sector in many areas of
the sector, including marketing; and accessibility to credit by the poor
continues to be a constraint to intensify production systems. As yet there is
no clear strategy to deal with these issues and UP is not one of those states
where there is an agreed program of fiscal reform. GOUP has however requested
Bank assistance for a major fiscal reform package and the Bank is currently
carrying out a state fiscal study with a view to such assistance.
However, there are some institutional issues pertaining to research and



extension that are being addressed. For example the main research
institutions in UP are weak and operate with limited links to national and
international institutions. Research programs do not allocate sufficient
resources to address issues of sustainability of production systems. The
approach of government to agricultural extension continues to be top-down, and
staff lack training and funds to operate effectively. The Government of UP
(GOUP) has initiated action (though not comprehensive) to address some of
these sectoral issues under the proposed Uttar Pradesh Diversified Agriculture
Project (UPDASP) (Cr.3106/Ln.4365). Concurrently, research activities
undertaken by the state agricultural universities will benefit from the reform
program to be introduced in the proposed National Agricultural Technology
Project (NATP) (Cr. 3048/Ln.4296) which would involve all Indian research
institutes.
Additionally, the lack of an effective village-to-market road network is an
increasing constraint to development throughout UP, for the transport of both
inputs and outputs. This requires large amounts of public funds that are not
available but some rationalization of the public expenditure has been
initiated in the UP DASP project. GOUP has now agreed to put into place an
institutional and operational framework for the construction and maintenance
of the rural road network. However, a lot more is required to ensure maximum
efficiency from infrastructure development in the state.
There has been encouraging progress made by GOUP's initiatives especially with
respect to institutional strengthening, ( e.g. progress under the proposed
UP DASP and pilot project - Uttar Pradesh Sodic Land Reclamation, Cr. 2510
and participatory approaches to development ( as demonstrated in the ongoing
pilot project and the UP Rural Water Supply project).
2. Objectives
To increase agriculture production and contribute to poverty alleviation
through sustainable reclamation and prevention of sodic lands in selected
districts of Uttar Pradesh state.
3. Description
The proposed project is seen as part of a long-term program to improve
agricultural production and productivity in areas with high concentrations of
sodic salts -affected lands and deteriorating environmental conditions.     The
project would build on the ongoing IDA financed project - Uttar Pradesh Sodic
Lands Reclamation Project (Cr. 2510) to reclaim sodic areas, and establish
models which in the future could be replicated on a much larger scale
emphasizing participatory management. The proposed project would aim to
reclaim about 150,000 ha over a six year period in the same ten districts of
the on-going project, namely: Allahabad, Aligrah, Etah, Etawah, Fatehpur,
Manipuri, Pratapgarh, Raibareli, Hardoi and Sultanpur.
Key components of the proposed project include:
Component 1: On- Farm development and Land Reclamation
This component addresses the need for beneficiary-led, on-farm reclamation
efforts in sodic areas of the state. This would entail the design, planning,
construction and/or improvement of the drainage network (link and field
-2 -



drains); provision of shallow borewells and pumpsets for irrigation
development to leach salts and support crop growth; on-farm development,
consisting of land leveling, bunding and construction of farm drains and
irrigation channels; provision of chemical amendments for alkalinity
reduction; and input support for crop production activities until crops/trees
have been successfully established and therefore provide an effective start in
the yield stabilization process.
The project would finance support of grassroots NGOs to assist in organizing
beneficiary groups. This would involve formation of farmer groups for water
sharing, operation and maintenance of pumpsets, on-farm development activities
and credit management. In order to give women access to and control of
resources, NGOs would also assist in the formation of women's groups, which,
in addition to the activities outlined above, would provide training to
enhance productivity in farming operations and strengthen their role in local
decision making bodies.
Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Main Drains
Remodeling and rehabilitation of 5,700 kilometers of main drains that are
situated in the ten districts to remove leach effluent and excess rain and
from the districts. Total catchment area of these drains is about 1.2 million
ha. Improved drains would also contribute to a positive environmental impact
by reversing and arresting the process of sodic land formation.
Component 3: Technology Dissemination
The main objective of the proposed component would be to establish a
community-based, demand driven system for technology dissemination in the
districts. The extension system would take into account the following key
elements:
Decentralization of management responsibility for the extension service to the
district and block level;
Local participation in the design and delivery of technology dissemination
educational programs;
Involvement of the private sector and NGOs in technology dissemination;
Strengthening of research- extension linkages;
Enhancing coordination between line departments;
Developing extension systems to address the farming system needs; and
Development of human capital for sustainable natural resource management.
Component 4: Upgrading farm to market roads
Upgrading about 700 kilometers farm-to-market roads. Rural infrastructure is
critical for land reclamation efforts and for farmer's access to inputs and
markets. About 3,400 villages in the sodic areas would be connected with all
weather roads.
Component 5: Human Resources Development and Institutional capacity building
of support services
This component emphasizes staff training and institutional strengthening of
staff in local government at the district, block and village level, UPBSN,
-3 -



NGOs and line departments supporting project activities.
Component 6: Adaptive Research
Adaptive research would be conducted with the overall objective of verifying
and refining available technologies to suit the location specific needs of
farmers and to bring about sustainable increases in the productivity of sodic
lands through reclamation.    The areas of adaptive research include the effect
of flushing out of sodium salts on gypsum requirements, use of highly sodic
tolerant crops to reduce the use of gypsum, effect of green manure as first
crop in reclamation, use of high residual sodium content water for irrigation,
post-reclamation management of lands, computor simulation of salt water
balance studies and further refinement of methodology for the use of pressmud
(by-product of sugarcane processing). Funds would be provided through a
Competitive Agricultural Research Fund (CARF) where both private and public
sector individuals and institutions may compete.
4. Financing
Component                Category        Indicative       W of Total   Bank-            W of
Costs (US$M)                  financing       Bank
(US$M)      financing
Land Reclamation and
On-farm development      physical        155.9             54           86.1             44
Main Drain Remodeling
and Maintenance          physical         38.0             13           29.4             15
Technology
Dissemination            Institution       8.5              3            7.8              4
building
Upgrading Farm
to Market Roads          Physical         37.1             13           29.1             15
Human Resource
Development and
Institutional Capacity
Building                 Institution      13.7                          12                6
building
Adaptive Research        Support            1.4             1           14                1
Services
Project Management       Support          31.9             11           28.6             15
Total            286.5           100          194.4             68
5. Implementation
There will be little deviation from the institutional and implementation
arrangements that are in place for the on-going project. The main
implementing agency for the project would be the Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar
Nigam (UPBSN). UPBSN will be responsible for the coordination of all
-4 -



activities pertaining to the project. Other Government of UP line departments
will be implementing parts of the project. These departments include
Agriculture, Irrigation, Panchayat Raj and Public Works.
The services of the Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC) would be
utilized for identification of sodic areas to be reclaimed and environmental
monitoring. The Uttar Pradesh Agriculture Research Council (UPCAR) would
coordinate implementation of the adaptive research program. NGOs would
participate as motivators for group formation, an essential ingredient for the
successful implementation and sustainablity of the project.
6. Sustainability
A critical area for the sustainability of project benefits is to ensure that
the main drains are remodeled and adequately maintained. Organizational
changes within the Irrigation Department have been made to expedite work in
the project. Maintenance funds have been committed by GOUP and the medium
term objective is to recover the costs of drainage maintenance from
beneficiaries.
7. Lessons Learned from past operations in the sector
The success of the IDA project is mainly due to: (a) flexibility in project
design; ( b) a strong government commitment to succeed. (The executing agency
(UPBSN) was given substantial flexibility and authority to carry out its
activities; the staff are all on contract and are fully accountable for their
performance; and there is complete transparency in the functioning of the
Corporation); (c) effective use of NGOs to motivate beneficiaries to organize
themselves to design and implement the program; and (d) systematic approach of
the full reclamation package.
To further strengthen the proposed project, based on lessons learnt from the
experience of the on-going project, the following elements are to be included
in the design: (a) strengthening the supporting environment, including public
institutions, local government, NGOs and the community; (b) focus on training
of extension staff and farmers; (c) rural roads to facilitate input supply and
marketing;
(d) remodeling/maintenance of the main drainage network by the Irrigation
Department; and (e) intensification of adaptive research activities, including
research into cost-effective technology.
Poverty Category : Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
11. Contact Point:               The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 5-



Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 2, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
The environmental issues that could arise with the sodic lands reclamation
process are:
Water quality :- Groundwater is contaminated by the leached sodic water from
the farmers' fields.
Soil quality : Sodic soils do not respond to reclamation technology
Biodiversity - sodic soils do destroy the natural habitat of many species of
flora and fauna.
In the on-going pilot project, regular monitoring of the above aspects are
being carried out by the Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC) and the
Groundwater Department. Data obtained in the past four years show that there
is no adverse impact on water, soil nor environment. The environment has
improved and both flora and fauna are now flourishing in areas that were
affected by sodicity and barren.
An environmental analyses was carried out during preparation to determine the
impact of land reclamation on soil, water and biodiversity. Three years' data
collected during the pilot phase were evaluated. The evaluation suggests that
soil quality at the root zones are improving and there has been no negative
impact on surface and groundwater quality. The data on biodiversity indicate
a strong positive impact, with soil organic matter improving, increase in the
insect eating bird population and an increased abundance of fauna.
It has been decided that as the impact on biodiversity is substantial and not
expected to reverse with the extension of the area to be reclaimed, regular
monitoring would not be required. However an evaluation would be made at the
end of the project implementation period to identify the species of flora and
fauna that have been found in the reclaimed areas.
With respect to soil and water quality, though there has been no adverse
impact, long-term monitoring is required to establish and confirm the data so
far obtained. An environmental management plan has been agreed with UPBSN
and the Remote Sensing Application center ( RSAC) - the responsible nodal
agency to ensure timely monitoring of soil and water quality throughout the
project period.
-7-



