Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3152 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
and
UTTAR PRADESH BHUMI SUDHAR NIGAM
Dated February 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3152 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), the STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Uttar Pradesh) 
and UTTAR PRADESH BHUMI SUDHAR NIGAM (UPBSN).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,700,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN declare their commitment to the 
objective of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
land reclamation, agricultural, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall otherwise agree, Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan.
(c)
Uttar Pradesh shall make available to UPBSN, as a grant and in a timely 
manner, (i) the proceeds of the Credit made available to Uttar Pradesh by the Borrower 
and (ii) additional funds from Uttar Pradesh’s own resources in amounts sufficient to 
cover the amounts required by UPBSN in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh 
and UPBSN of their obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Association, Uttar Pradesh 
and UPBSN, a plan satisfactory to the Association for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of UPBSN
Section 3.01. UPBSN shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
Page  3
accordance with sound administrative, financial, land reclamation, agricultural, 
engineering and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. UPBSN shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, land reclamation, agricultural and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. UPBSN shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall maintain  records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such fiscal 
year, (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such fiscal year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, Uttar 
Pradesh and UPBSN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement among the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Telex:
535259 CHLW
For UPBSN:
Managing Director
Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam
Vibhuti Khand, Gomti Nagar
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Telex:
              535259 CHLW
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and on behalf of UPBSN may be taken or 
executed by the Chairman of the Board of UPBSN or such other person or persons as 
UPBSN shall designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ K. Desiraju
Authorized Representative
UTTAR PRADESH BHUMI SUDHAR NIGAM
By /s/ C.B. Paliwal
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in the following paragraphs of this Part C, 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,300,000 equivalent, may be 
Page  6
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles, seeds and fertilizers) estimated to cost less 
than $10,000 equivalent per contract, and seeds and fertilizers estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$23,100,000 equivalent, and with the Association’s prior agreement, may be procured by 
direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract and works for 
on-farm development under Part A of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $36,500,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured by direct contracting 
from water user groups, self help groups and NGOs in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines; or
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
5.
Transportation of Gypsum
Contracts for transportation of gypsum from rail head to project sites, costing 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,200,000 equivalent, shall be awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for goods (except vehicles) and works, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, (b) the first two contracts for 
goods (except vehicles, seeds and fertilizers) and the first two contracts for works, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than the equivalent of 
Page  7
$200,000, and (c) each contract for vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for training, digitization, mass media, monitoring of compliance of the 
memoranda of understanding referred to in paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, strengthening of panchayats, strengthening of local credit services, 
marketing studies, adaptive research, soil monitoring, groundwater monitoring, surface 
water monitoring, biodiversity evaluation, and strengthening of RSAC may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  8
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that RSAC, UPCAR and the line departments will, in a 
timely manner: (i) participate in the implementation of the Project as necessary; and 
(ii) provide all the necessary assistance to and cooperation with UPBSN in the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall ensure that UPBSN, each of the line departments, 
RSAC and UPCAR will: (i) not later than April 1, 1999, enter into a memorandum of 
understanding, acceptable to the Association, setting forth the activities to be 
carried out and financial and other implementation arrangements; (ii) comply with the 
provisions of such memorandum of understanding; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive such memorandum of understanding or any provision thereof without the written 
consent of the Association.
3.
UPBSN shall carry out the identification, selection and planning of the 
reclamation sites under the Project in accordance with criteria, schedule and 
procedures agreed with the Association.
4.
UPBSN shall select NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project in 
accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association.
5.
UPBSN shall: (i) by April 1, 2000, select, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a suitably qualified agency to undertake 
an independent assessment of the participatory management process for NGOs adopted 
under Part E of the Project; (ii) by December 31, 2000, prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, to implement recommendations made by such agency; and 
(iii) thereafter implement such recommendations in accordance with such action plan.
6.
UPBSN shall: (i) by December 31 of each year, starting in 1999, furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments an annual implementation plan for the Project, 
including training, for the following year; and (ii) thereafter implement each such 
plan, taking into account the Association’s comments on such plan.
7.
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
for each six-month period, starting with the period ending on December 
31, 1999, submit to the Association for its review and comments, within thirty (30) 
days of the end of such period, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
Page  9
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six months ending on 
the last day of such period and during the entire year ending on the last day of such 
period;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by December 31, 2001 and in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
8.
UPBSN shall ensure that the remodeling of the main drains for each site under 
the Project shall be substantially completed to ensure the free flow of effluents from 
leaching process.
9.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) not later than three (3) months prior to the beginning 
of each Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association an operational plan for the 
maintenance of the main drains under the Project to be undertaken during such Fiscal 
Year, including an estimate of the costs of such maintenance in an amount satisfactory 
to the Association; and (ii) thereafter provide in a timely manner the funds 
sufficient to cover the costs of such maintenance for such Fiscal Year.
10.
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall: (i) select and improve the rural roads under Part 
D of the Project in accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the 
Association; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with the Road Maintenance Policy; 
(iii) employ, not later than July 1, 1999, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and with terms of reference agreed with 
the Association, consultants to inspect and verify the technical quality of such roads 
after their improvement; (iv) ensure that any land needed for road improvement shall 
be provided by the occupant of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with 
a memorandum of understanding, acceptable to the Association, between Uttar Pradesh 
and such occupant; and (v) not commence improvement of roads in locations where land 
is needed until such memorandum of understanding has been concluded. 
11.
Uttar Pradesh shall continue to keep the Agriculture Production Commissioner as 
the Chairman of the Board of UPBSN.
12.
UPBSN shall implement the Environmental Management Plan in accordance with the 
objectives, policies, procedures, time schedule and other provisions set out therein 
and shall not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
implementation.
13.
Uttar Pradesh and UPBSN shall: (i) with the assistance of UPCAR complete 
approval, not later than December 31, 1999, of the first phase of the research 
proposals under the competitive agricultural research program under Part F of the 
Project, in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association; and (ii) take all 
the necessary measures to ensure that continued funding for the program shall be 
provided, during the post-Project period, (a) for completion of the research initiated 
during the Project period and (b) subject to satisfactory performance of the program, 
for support of a competitive research funding mechanism.
14.
UPBSN shall take all the necessary measures to ensure that, not later than 
December 31, 1999, extension services activities under Part C of the Project in at 
least one block of two Project districts are contracted to NGOs or private service 
providers in association with the commodity groups/associations and self help groups, 
with technical back-stopping by the district teams and block level staff of the line 
departments of Uttar Pradesh, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Page  10
15.
UPBSN shall successfully develop and maintain a financial management system for 
the Project comprising preparation and adoption of a financial management manual, and 
development, installation and operation of a computerized financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association.
16.
UPBSN shall employ (i) not later than June 30, 1999, and thereafter maintain as 
a financial controller a suitably experienced chartered accountant or cost accountant, 
and (ii) not later than March 31, 1999, and thereafter maintain as a financial officer 
a suitable chartered accountant or cost accountant.
17.
UPBSN shall employ not later than March 31, 1999, and thereafter maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period a firm of chartered accountants with 
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association, for auditing the 
records, accounts and financial statements of the Project.
