                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR0000653




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-31520)


                                      ON A


                CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 141.7 MILLION


                       (US$194.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                     TO THE


                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA


                                    FOR THE


         UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT


                                  March 20, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective September 2007)

                 Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                       Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.03
                     US$ 1.00 = Rs. 39.71

                          FISCAL YEAR
                        April 1 ­ March 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ATMA  Agricultural Technology        MCAR        Micro Credit Action
      Management Agency                          Research
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy    M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
CES   Consulting Engineering         MIS         Management Information System
      Services
DASP  Diversified Agriculture        MK          Mitra Kisan
      Support Project
DCA   Development Credit             MMK         Mahila Mitra Kisan
      Agreement
DICC  District Implementation and    MTR         Mid-Term Review
      Coordination Committee
DOA   Department of Agriculture      NGO         Non-Government Organization
ERR   Economic Rate of Return        OFD         On-Farm Development
FFS   Farmers Field School           PAD         Project Appraisal Document
FY    Financial Year                 PDO         Project Development Objective
GIS   Geographic Information         PRA         Participatory Rural Appraisal
      System
GOUP  Government of Uttar Pradesh PV             Present Value
GP    Gram Panchayat                 PWD         Public Works Department
hh    Household                      Rs.         Rupees
HRD   Human Resource                 RSAC        Remote Sensing Application
      Development                                Centre
ICRR  Implementation Completion      SAU         State Agricultural University
      and Results Report
ID    Irrigation Department          SCF         Standard Conversion Factor
ISM   Implementation Support         SHG         Self Help Group
      Mission
ITK   Indigenous Technical           SIC         Site Implementation Committee
      Knowledge
Km    Kilometer                      SREP        Strategic Research and Extension
                                                 Plan
M     Million                        t           Ton

UP         Uttar Pradesh                 WOP   Without Project
UPBSN      Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar    WP    With Project
           Nigam
VOC        Vehicle Operating Cost        WSHG  Women Self Help Group
VOT        Value of Time Saved           WUGs  Water User Groups
WMC        Water Management
           Committee




     Vice President: Praful C. Patel
   Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
    Sector Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader: Paul Singh Sidhu
  ICR Team Leader: Paul Singh Sidhu

                                              INDIA
          UTTAR PRADESH LANDS RECLAMATION II PROJECT
                                         CONTENTS
Data Sheet

      A. Basic Information.................................................................... i

      B. Key Dates............................................................................. i

      C. Ratings Summary.................................................................... i

      D. Sector and Theme Codes.......................................................... ii

      E. Bank Staff........................................................................... ii

      F. Results Framework Analysis.......................................... ............ ii

      G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs......................................... v

      H. Restructuring........................................................................vi

      I. Disbursement Graph............................................................... vi

 1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design....................................... 1
 2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................... 4
 3.     Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................... 8
 4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................. 15
 5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................. 16
 6.     Lessons Learned................................................................................................ 18
 7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 41
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 43
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 52
 MAP IBRD No. 29956R

A. Basic Information

Country:                India                  Project Name:          UP Sodic Lands II
Project ID:             P050646                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31520
ICR Date:               03/20/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 141.7M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 141.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/19/1998     Effectiveness:         03/29/1999        03/29/1999
Appraisal:             06/30/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/15/1998     Mid-term Review:                         04/29/2002
                                      Closing:               09/30/2005        09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):


                                               i

Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                       Highly Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                             1                   1
Irrigation and drainage                                        60                  71
Other social services                                           4                   1
Roads and highways                                             15                  12
Sub-national government administration                         20                  15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                            Primary            Primary
Other rural development                                       Primary            Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary            Primary
Technology diffusion                                          Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Isabel M. Guerrero               Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:           Adolfo Brizzi                    Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:      Paul Singh Sidhu                 Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex
ICR Team Leader:          Paul Singh Sidhu
ICR Primary Author:       Jim Hancock



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Sustainable reclamation of sodic lands and prevention of further increases in sodicity in
selected districts with the highest concentration of sodic areas in Uttar Pradesh state. This
would contribute significantly to poverty alleviation in these areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Incremental farm income for 0.4 ha farm size at 1998 real prices, excluding
                horticulture (Rs.)
Value
quantitative or 0                          4,909              No revision    5,947
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Incremental farm income is 21% more than the PAD estimate.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Income distribution in sodic land reclamation beneficiary households (%)

Value                                                                        Bottom three

quantitative or Bottom three deciles: 06   Not given          No revision    deciles: 14

Qualitative)    Top three deciles    : 69                                    Top three deciles
                                                                             : 57
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The share of poorer households in the aggregate income has more than doubled.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Poverty incidence in the sodic land households (%)
Value
quantitative or 72                         Not given          No revision    48
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        By end-project, 24% of the poor households crossed poverty line threshold

achievement)    income level. For without project (WOP) poverty level is 65% at project closure.

Indicator 4 :   Crop yields in reclaimed sodic lands (t/ha)
Value
quantitative or Paddy: 0.9                 Paddy: 3.5         No revision    Paddy: 3.5

Qualitative)    Wheat: 0.4                 Wheat: 2.7                        Wheat: 3.0

Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007     09/30/2007

Comments        Weighted average crop yield at project completion is 11% more than the PAD

(incl. %        target for wheat and same as the target for paddy. WOP weighted paddy yield is

achievement)    0.7 t/ha. Class C lands accounted for 67% of the reclaimed lands as compared
                with 55% in the PAD.
Indicator 5 :   Cropping intensity (%)
Value
quantitative or 63                         190                No revision    198
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007     09/30/2007



                                                iii

Comments        Cropping intensity is 3.2% more than the PAD target. The actual value in

(incl. %        baseline survey is 43%. Green manure crop (not included in determining

achievement)    cropping intensity) covered 30% of the reclaimed lands, which would raise
                cropping intensity to 227%.
Indicator 6 :   Additional rural employment generated (million person days/year)
Value
quantitative or 0                          23.8               No revision   28.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007    09/30/2007
Comments        Additional rural employment generated is 18% more than the targeted value.
(incl. %        This will have poverty alleviation impact on about 10% of the landless labor
achievement)    households in the project area.
Indicator 7 :   Out migration of labour (person days per migrating household per year)
Value
quantitative or Men laborer : 98           Not given          No revision   Men laborer : 45

Qualitative)    Women laborer : 38                                          Women laborer : 05

Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007    09/30/2007
Comments        No value is reported in the PAD. The data are from baseline survey and socio-
(incl. %        economic impact assessment. By end-project, out migration of labor has
achievement)    decreased by 63%.
Indicator 8 :   Adequacy of funding for maintenance of sodic main drains (Rs. million/year)
Value
quantitative or 0                          Not given          No revision   48.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007    09/30/2007
Comments        A Corpus Fund has been established from the levy on gypsum distributed to
(incl. %        farmers for providing 10% counterpart funds to GOUP allocated budget (90%
achievement)    share) for drain maintenance. Discussed in the main text.
Indicator 9 :   Reduction in area of sodic lands and lands with shallow water table (ha)

                                           Sodic lands:       Sodic lands:  Sodic lands:
                                           150,000            180,000       189,715

                                           Critical shallow   Critical      Critical shallow
Value                                      water table:       shallow       water table:
quantitative or 0                          244,800            water table:  385,600
Qualitative)                                                  No revision

                                           No water                         No water
                                           logging            No water      logging
                                           problem:           logging       problem:
                                           27,200             problem:
                                                              No revision   136,400

Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2005         09/30/2007    09/30/2007

Comments        The sodic lands reclaimed exceeded the PAD target by 26% and the revised

(incl. %        target by 5.4%. The reduction in land area with shallow water table has

achievement)    exceeded the PAD target by 57% due to increased coverage of main drain
                rehabilitation.




                                                iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                              approval            Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)        Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Annual incremental foodgrain production from the reclaimed sodic lands
                (thousand metric t)
Value
(quantitative   0                         664                  No revision     959
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  09/30/2005           09/30/2007      09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Annual incremental foodgrain production is 44% more than the PAD target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Area of sodic lands reclaimed and brought under cultivation (ha)
Value
(quantitative   0                         150,000              180,000         189,715
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  09/30/2005           09/30/2007      09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Area of sodic lands reclaimed and brought under cultivation is 26% higher than

achievement)    the PAD target and 5.4% more than the revised target.

Indicator 3 :   Increased market value of land (Rs. thousand/ha)
Value           C class: 58                                                    C class: 224
(quantitative   B class: 122              Not given            No revision     B class: 264
or Qualitative) B+ class: 167                                                  B+ class: 352
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  09/30/2005           09/30/2007      09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The increase in market value of land is 3.9 folds for C class land and 2.1 folds for

achievement)    B and B+ class land against the PAD target of 4 folds.

Indicator 4 :   Amount of savings by SICs and SHGs (Rs. million)
Value
(quantitative   0                         Not given            No revision     126
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  09/30/2005           09/30/2007      09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        No taget was fixed in the PAD.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     05/21/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     05/25/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        0.00
  3     11/29/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                        5.00


                                               v

  4   05/10/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory        7.55
  5   06/23/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       12.30
  6   12/26/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       13.84
  7   06/19/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       27.27
  8   11/15/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       30.62
  9   04/17/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       50.95
  10  06/27/2002        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory     50.95
  11  12/03/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       68.25
  12  06/05/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory       83.71
  13  12/24/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      107.66
  14  06/24/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      119.12
  15  10/07/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      123.83
  16  06/03/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      151.50
  17  08/28/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      158.87
  18  02/18/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      180.55
  19  08/26/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      190.03
  20  11/26/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      193.48
  21  05/30/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      197.12
  22  09/07/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory      197.12



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

The project was designed in line with the World Bank's poverty reduction strategy for
India at the time of appraisal, with priorities to work through state level interventions,
focusing on institutional change and technical innovation, and aiming for sustainable
natural resources management and enhancement of participation.

In Uttar Pradesh (UP) there is widespread poverty and a high dependency on agriculture
for livelihoods. While the State has been relatively slow on reforms, it has made a good
start in addressing its considerable land degradation problems. The project dealt with
these core issues by contributing to strengthening agriculture related institutions at many
levels: through participation of stakeholders, maintenance of key infrastructure, and
engagement of local government and extension services. While not central to the project,
it also had activities to examine and ensure project beneficiary services for marketing
systems and credit, aspects of agricultural reform which were weak in the State.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was sustainable reclamation of sodic lands1 and prevention of further increases
in sodicity in selected districts with the highest concentration of sodic areas in UP, which
would contribute significantly to poverty alleviation in these areas.

The key performance indicators were:

· increased crop yields in reclaimed areas (paddy and wheat 3.5 and 2.7 tons (t)/ha
    respectively) and increased cropping intensity (up to 200%);
· four-fold increase in market value of land;
· increased household (hh) income (up to Rs. 12,000) of small and marginal farmers;
· improved drainage network in 10 districts;
· upgrading of 700 km of farm to market roads; and
· increased community participation.

The PAD logframe noted, in addition, the following indicators:

· beneficial changes in migration patterns;
· adequacy of local funding for main drain operation and maintenance channeled
    through Panchayats;
· execution of scheduled maintenance of main drains; and



1Sodic lands are characterized by accumulation of high concentrations of sodium salts (mainly sodium
carbonate and bicarbonate). These lands have developed under impeded drainage and high fluctuating
water table. Accumulation of sodium adversely affects soil fertility and is harmful for plant growth.




                                                    1

· reduction of waterlogged and sodic lands.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
        Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were considered to be appropriate throughout project
implementation and were not revised, aside from the targets (see section 1.7).

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

Some 375,000 farm families, 75% of whom were small and marginal farmers living
below subsistence level in 10 districts of UP, were the primary beneficiaries of the
project. PAD also recognized that families with land in the catchment areas of the main
drainage network improved through the project would also benefit. Correcting for the
average holding size, and accounting for the farmers with land in both the sodic
reclaimed areas and in the surrounding main drain catchments, it was estimated that an
additional 122,000 families will also benefit from the project, 77% of whom were
marginal and small farmers. Secondary beneficiaries that can be identified from PAD are
key local institutions: the key implementing agency Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam
(UPBSN), the Remote Sensing and Application Center (RSAC) assisting identification
and monitoring, the Departments of Irrigation (ID) and Public Works (PWD), local
government and community based organizations.

1.5     Original Components

The project had the following seven components (based on PAD Section C, Table 1 and
Annex 2) and several sub-components:

(i)   Land Reclamation and On-farm Development: On about 150,000 ha that would
      include:    (a) detailed mapping of sodic lands; (b) forming water user groups
      (WUGs) and site implementation committees (SICs); (c) planning, design,
      construction and/or improving link and field drains; (d) providing shallow tubewells
      and pump sets to leach salts and support crop production; (e) on-farm development
      (OFD) through land leveling and bunding; (f) applying gypsum                         2  /organic
      amendments to the soil; (g) providing crop production inputs support; and (h)
      developing a withdrawal strategy.

(ii)  Main Drain Remodeling and Maintenance: (a) Remodeling and rehabilitation 5,750
      km of main drains, including pucca works; (b) technical assistance and equipment
      for monitoring and survey; and (c) maintenance of main drains and transferring
      maintenance from ID to communities through capacity building.




2Application of gypsum (calcium sulfate) supplies calcium which replaces harmful sodium from the soil.
The replaced sodium is then removed from the root zone by drainage and leaching.




                                                   2

(iii) Technology Dissemination: Establishing a demand-driven technology dissemination
      system for: (a) mobilizing the participation of farming communities, block level
      farmers advisory committees and block technology teams; with farmer self-help
      technology teams; (b) setting-up district implementation and technology teams; (c)
      establishing multi-disciplinary teams of research and extension specialists (link with
      component vi); (d) preparing strategic research and extension plans (SREPs); (e)
      strengthening communications capacity and use of mass media; (f) training of
      public extension workers, NGOs and farming communities; (g) disseminating
      information on effective land and water management practices; and (h) technical
      assistance for effective project implementation.

(iv) Upgrading Farm to Market Roads: (a) Upgrading 700 km of roads connecting
      sodic villages to highways/district roads; and (b) maintenance of the upgraded roads.

(v)   Human Resource Development and Institutional Capacity Building: (a) Training of
      line department and local government bodies' staff, and capital investment to
      support project activities; (b) strengthening of Panchayats through training and
      construction of village Panchayat Bhawans (meeting halls); (c) strengthening of
      government agencies and NGOs at various levels; (d) pilot credit action research;
      and (e) marketing support through studies, upgrading of village market `haats'
      (platforms), and training.

(vi) Adaptive Research: Continuing and strengthening key research activities initiated
      under the pilot project to increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of
      reclamation through: (a) adoption of competitive research system; (b) research
      advisory committee and linkages with national and international institutes; and (c)
      setting up a sub-station of the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute in UP.

(vii) Project Management: (a) Strengthening of UPBSN, and implementation through
      district implementation units; (b) carrying out of Environmental Management Plan
      by monitoring of land improvement, ground water quality, biodiversity and
      diversification of cropping systems; and (c) overall monitoring and evaluation
      (M&E) of the project, with the support of independent monitoring agencies in
      project implementation progress, agricultural and socio-economic impact
      assessment, and participatory management.

1.6     Revised Components

The project components were not revised.

1.7     Other Significant Changes




                                              3

The project increased its coverage from 10 to 183 districts in May 2001. It was envisaged
that works would be completed within the existing budget allocations and there was no
need for any amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Due to delays in
starting the main project physical works, and lower than expected PAD unit costs,
following the mid-term review (MTR) the project was extended in December 2004 by
appropriate amendment to the DCA to: (i) increase the area of sodic land reclamation
from 150,000 to 180,000 ha; (ii) increase the main drain remodeling and maintenance
from 5,750 to 7,603 km; (iii) increase upgrading of farm to market roads from 700 to
1,330 km; and (iv) extend the project closing date by two years to September 30, 2007.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Overall the project design was satisfactory, building on very specific needs and targeted
areas, and the success of a previous pilot project (UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project).
The PDO, sustainable reclamation of sodic lands in selected districts with the highest
concentration of sodic areas in UP, provided a core thrust to the project. The PDO was
clear and realistic; outcome indicators were well-defined and measurable. The lessons
learned from the pilot project, such as establishing logical sequence of reclamation
activities, secure land titling, mobilization and involvement of communities in planning
and implementation, were incorporated in the project design. Continued Bank
involvement was important to take advantage of the success in implementing the pilot
project to replicate and broaden the reclamation success. The Government was fully
committed to the project. The project's dual objective of combining sodic land
reclamation and poverty alleviation remained very focused and clear. The lessons learned
in the pilot project on sodic land reclamation, the importance of M&E and the use of
flexible project management and participatory approaches were strongly taken up and
built upon. Main drain remodeling and maintenance rightly took a more prominent place
in the project design. Also a new component, upgrading farm to market roads, was added
for which UPBSN did not have any prior experience.

While innovative, the project design was complex, with too many (seven) components
and implementing agencies. Furthermore, there were several coordinating/planning
committees for extension and research at different levels. The horticultural sub-
component could have been excluded as it was incidental to the project objectives.

2.2     Implementation

The chain of activities envisaged at appraisal for reclamation of sodic lands included: (i)
identification and demarcation of sodic lands, (ii) mobilization of communities, (iii)
installing shallow tube wells and pump sets, (iv) designing, constructing and



3Two of the original project districts were bifurcated, and six districts that were previously financed by the
European Union, were included.




                                                      4

rehabilitating the drainage network, (v) on-farm development, land leveling and bunding,
(vi) applying gypsum followed by drainage of excess salts, (vii) cultivation of rice-wheat-
Dhaincha in a sequence for two years, and (viii) developing an exit strategy. This
sequence of activities proved very effective in the reclamation of sodic lands.

The project got off to a slow start due primarily to: (i) insufficient time allowed for the
identification of sodic areas that met the project selection criteria; (ii) longer than
anticipated time needed to mobilize communities for their participation in the project; and
(iii) the inclusion of two new components (upgrading farm to market roads and main
drain remodeling and maintenance) that were not in the pilot project and needed
considerable development of implementation arrangements. This resulted in delayed
disbursement in the initial years.

Project expansion to six additional districts and the two year extension of the closing date
allowed savings, identified at MTR, to be used well to expand project scope and impact,
and poverty alleviation outcomes. At MTR savings of approximately US$12.4 million
(m) were identified due to: (i) lower than expected unit costs, especially of gypsum;
(ii) lower physical contingencies; (iii) GOUP ban on vehicle purchase; and (iv) under-
utilization of training costs. Overall, the Government commitment was good and the
stakeholder involvement and participatory processes were exceptional. There were no
major risks to implementation.

The project design did not anticipate the extent of economic response by women self help
groups (WSHGs), especially in dairy and small ruminant production. As a consequence,
technical support was concentrated on crops, with relatively little attention given to
animal husbandry. Opportunities for diversification after 2-3 cycles of paddy-wheat
rotation, were not recognized at the outset, and the design did not emphasize green
manure crops. However, the MTR proved useful in refining the project design, such as
sharpening post-reclamation focus on crop diversification, curtailing the horticultural
sub-component, and provided useful guidance on implementation issues. Implementation
support missions (ISMs) also provided constructive guidance throughout, mostly
followed by the implementing agencies. The incorporation of complimentary activities
from the parallel Diversified Agriculture Support Project (DASP), such as crop
diversification, popularization of organic manures, and farmer-to-farmer improved seed
exchange, gave unplanned incremental benefits.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E system of the project was well designed and was put to a very good use in
implementation (see Box 1).

 Box 1. High quality M&E (From Bank's Quality of Supervision Assessment in
 2006) "Of particular note was the design of an M&E system that employed two
 independent monitoring agencies to collect baseline and implementation data. This
 provided a quantified record of implementation achievements, which enabled the
 project to demonstrate its worth to the state and national officials. The quantified



                                              5

 demonstration of the project impact has done much to reinforce the commitment of
 the Borrower and the Bank to this approach to sodic land reclamation."

M&E Design. In addition to basic input monitoring to be supported by a Management
Information System (MIS), a large portion of M&E was designed to be conducted by
external independent agencies for the main field components. Special studies and
evaluations were also planned for the end of project for all the main components.

M&E Implementation. Internal and external M&E was generally very well
implemented. However, during the initial years one of the external agencies provided
below standard reports, had substandard management, and a low presence at the field
level. Supervision missions early in the project picked-up on this and it was satisfactorily
addressed. Initially monitoring of environmental changes was under-resourced. This was
also identified at MTR and suitable remedial actions were quickly taken.

Over 12 special studies and evaluations were undertaken, some of these reviewing the
monitoring data. Nevertheless, given the complexity of the project interventions, there
were some minor weaknesses in data collection. The M&E for agricultural and socio-
economic impact assessment covered the pre-reclamation year and three cropping years
following the reclamation. Given the poor resource base of the targeted beneficiaries,
some of the reclamation impacts like crop diversification and shift to high value crops,
will happen gradually beyond the first three years, which the M&E did not capture. Field
observations and some rapid assessments done by UPBSN did indicate this trend. Also
paddy and wheat yields, recorded initially through the M&E system, appeared to be
conservative by about 10% as compared to the yields reported in special studies. ICRR
mission field observations and interviews with project beneficiaries confirm this. The
M&E implementation to some degree suffered from lack of a carefully planned control,
which could have assisted in a more systematic comparison with non-project effects from
the start of the project.

M&E Utilization. Use of the M&E information was excellent overall and
implementation feedback mechanisms were responsive. For example, the two third-party
M&E service providers reported directly to the managing director of UPBSN, and
monitoring of physical quality of drain and road works was conveyed firmly to ID and
PWD. Timely information on implementation progress of the project was reported
quarterly and reports were sent to district project managers for compliance. Monitoring
data formed the basis for a project MIS/Geographic Information System (GIS), proved
particularly practical for tracking reclamation activities and indicators. Monitoring of
community mobilization and organization processes, land reclamation and infrastructure
works provided objective information on project progress, and was effectively used for
making decisions to achieve project objectives. Findings of the MTR and socio-economic
studies were used to improve targeting of the project towards more C class4 land, and


4C class land: barren sodic land, soil pH > 8.5 which may go up to 11.0; B class land: single cropped sodic
land with no irrigation facilities, low productivity, soil pH >8.5; B+ class land: double cropped sodic land
with some irrigation facilities, productivity below normal, soil pH >8.5.



                                                        6

thus poorer beneficiary groups. The micro credit action research (MCAR) pilot results
were used to spread micro-credit processes, particularly amongst women. Regular
monitoring of the reclaimed lands and a ground-truthing exercise undertaken by RSAC,
led to a revisit system for identifying the follow-up activities in each project village,
which in 2005-06 directly addressed the sustainability issues.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental and Natural Habitats. The institutional responsibilities for compliance
with environmental management plans were clearly defined and regularly monitored.
Environmental specifications by contractors were satisfactorily implemented. The
presence of Sarus cranes in project areas immediately triggered the Bank policy on
natural habitats in 2001. Special studies undertaken by RSAC and the Wild Life Institute
of India have shown that the project activities have not impacted on wetlands and Sarus
crane populations, and any effects were caused in areas outside project control. Regular
environmental monitoring has shown that land reclamation and rehabilitation of drains
produced no harmful effect on quality of ground water and in the downstream areas.
Reclamation improved soil quality with significant reduction in pH and electrical
conductivity. Both floral and faunal diversity in sampled sodic areas increased over five-
fold as a result of reclamation, as has microbial biomass. The project has promoted
ecologically sustainable agriculture by popularizing the use of bio-fertilizers, green
manures, compost, bio-pesticides and integrated pest management.

Social. Compliance with social safeguards has been satisfactory, ensuring that no roads
and drains were considered for upgrading unless lands were voluntarily donated by the
beneficiaries. Sample surveys and field visits were undertaken to directly consult with the
affected populations. Objective, transparent and verifiable criteria were employed,
including remote sensing data, to identify the sodic lands to be taken up for reclamation.
Independent surveys and stakeholder consultations (including farmers and NGOs)
assessed poverty and gender outcomes.

Procurement. Overall procurement performance has been satisfactory. The major items
procured were gypsum, drainage civil works, rural roads, as well as inputs such as poly
vinyl chloride pipes, seeds, fertilizer, etc. All items procured exceeded PAD targets,
although early on there were some delays in procurement for the construction of rural
roads and drains. Issues arose with regard to the procurement of gypsum. About 1.8
million t of gypsum was procured through international competitive bidding but no
foreign suppliers participated in the bids. After trying different approaches to procure
gypsum, bulk purchases were made from three Rajasthan suppliers transporting by rail.
The landed cost of gypsum was about US$ 45 million. However, there was limited
competition from the three public corporation suppliers.

Financial Management. Overall financial management has been satisfactory. In view of
large spread of the project, three specific legal covenants were included to ensure
effective implementation of basic accounting, reporting and internal control systems.
These covenants were regularly complied with. In earlier years, there were some delays



                                             7

in submitting quarterly audits and compliance with audit observations. Consequently the
financial management was rated as unsatisfactory in 2005. As a result of a special drive
by the project, all the pending observations were resolved in FY 2005-06. Total audit
disallowances were Rs. 2.8 million, constituting only 0.02% of total expenditures. The
Annual Audit Report was always submitted on time. Flow of funds from GOUP to
UPBSN, and then from UPBSN to the implementing units was remarkably smooth.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project put considerable emphasis, both in design and implementation, on the
sustainability of reclamation and on-farm development activities. For three key areas of
post-operation ­ maintenance of roads, link and main drains, and local institutional
capacity, systems have been established and resources allocated (discussed in Section 4
Assessment of risk...), such as maintenance schedules and budgets. However, there is no
system for continuing external monitoring that was being done during the project.

The Bank has received a request for a follow-on project to continue support to the
reclaimed lands and the institutions set up under the project, and to expand to other
similar areas in UP. In the meanwhile, under the Kisan Samridhi/Hitt Yojna of the GOUP,
Rs. 340.3 million have been provided to UPBSN for reclamation of sodic, barren and
ravine lands in the 18 project districts in FY 2007-08. Also under the Horticulture
Mission funded by Government of India (GOI), Rs. 26.5 million has been provided to
promote horticulture on the reclaimed lands in FY 2007-08. The competitive agricultural
research funding approach has been expanded with the UP Council for Agricultural
Research adopting the approach across its programs and the setting up of a Corpus Fund,
now financing 9 new projects. Key activities initiated or consolidated through the project
will be continued by GOUP for ensuring continued technical support to farmers through
the Mitra Kisans (MKs)/Mahila Mitra Kisans (MMKs) and the farmer field schools
(FFSs) and strengthening their linkages to State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), line
departments, private sector and other relevant organizations. The Department of
Agriculture (DOA) is also committed to continue to provide technical services to farmers
through trainings, demonstrations, field days and farmer fairs.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of objectives. The objectives were highly relevant at the start of the project
and remain so at the time of ICRR: in terms of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
priorities of poverty alleviation, rural livelihoods development and agricultural growth
focus; and building up of participatory agricultural support institutions and community
driven approaches. The project also remains relevant to the focus on geographical areas
of the poor and engaging the private sector. In addition, the project squarely addresses the
rehabilitation of the environment. These are also high priority areas in the government
strategy.




                                              8

Relevance of design. The project design was underpinned by a coherent strategy for
sodic land reclamation developed and owned by GOUP, and tested under the pilot project.
The project incorporated design features which remain highly relevant to the present
Bank strategies and project objectives: for precise targeting of critical geographical areas,
targeting and working with the poor, widely using participatory processes, private sector
development, provision of critical infrastructure and agricultural support services. The
use of a relatively autonomous UPBSN, as the main implementing agency, was important
for flexibility to address changing needs and to maintain poverty alleviation focus.

Relevance of implementation. In general, the implementation remained responsive to
the project objectives and principles (see Sections 2.2 Implementation, and 2.3 M&E).
The broader project management and the Borrower relationship with the Bank was highly
responsive to the changing needs and issues arising, as reflected in the prominence given
to the project in the State Portfolio Performance Reviews.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

For its development objectives, the project has achieved and exceeded the main original
targets, and also achieved or surpassed most of the revised targets. Baseline values,
original and revised targets and actual values at completion of the project outcome
indicators are shown in Data Sheet Section F(a) PDO Indicators. The project has
substantially reduced sodicity and contributed significantly to poverty alleviation. This
has been done by effectively completing all the main core activities, as well as through
the additional benefits accruing from the project (see Annex 2 Outputs by component).

Reclamation of sodic lands. 189,715 ha of formerly sodic lands have been reclaimed
and are being utilized, out of which around 126,990 ha were the most severely affected
class C lands which were lying barren with no production - 54% more than targeted. The
local farmer groups have successfully adopted the sodic land reclamation technology and
the improved crop husbandry, soil fertility and water management practices. Durability
studies using satellite imagery show that 93% of the reclaimed lands are under double
cropping 3-5 years after reclamation. As a result of large scale adoption of the new
practices by the farmers, the cropping intensity has increased from a baseline of 63% to
198%, on an average, across all classes of reclaimed lands, above the 190% originally
targeted. The crop yields have increased across all classes of reclaimed sodic lands from
a weighted average of 0.9 to 3.5 t/ha for paddy and 0.4 to 3.0 t/ha for wheat. For paddy
this yield is the same, and for wheat this is 11% higher than the original target. As a result
of improved cropping intensity and crop yields, the annual incremental production is
531,000 t for paddy (353,700 t original target) and 428,000 t for wheat (310,500 t target)
giving a very large 44% overall higher production than expected. The market value of
land has increased 3.9 folds for C class land and 2.1 folds for B and B+ class land. At the
same time, the environmental impacts of reclamation have been positive for soil quality
and biodiversity (see Section 2.4), and neutral for water quality and natural habitats.

Maintenance of main drains. Through improved main drains it is estimated that the
extent of waterlogged areas has been reduced by 57% -- based on comparison of 1998



                                              9

and 2007 satellite imageries -- though rainfall was relatively lower in 2006 which would
affect the data. Impact assessment showed decreased number of days of water logging,
though this happened in control areas too. Paddy and wheat yields have increased by 18%
and 15%, respectively, in villages benefiting from project reclamation, 12% and 18% in
neighboring villages benefiting from drainage only, but 6% and 11% in control villages.

Sustaining reclamation benefits through continued maintenance of drains is essential, as
was shown in the pilot project. Project activities for drain maintenance were delayed by
two years, but once implemented the maintenance activities covered 132% of the
expected maintenance of pilot project drains, and 106% of the expected maintenance of
the project drains. The sustainability aspects of drain maintenance were incorporated into
project objectives (see Section 4 Assessment of risk...). They have been satisfactorily,
but not fully, accomplished.

Improved access from farm to market roads. 1,112 km of rural roads have been
upgraded against the PAD target of 700 km. Impact assessment has shown that they have
significantly improved farm household income. Farmers report getting better prices for
their produce (averaging 5%) and have incentives to produce more. The project has also
significantly improved capacity of the PWD in planning, design, quality assurance,
procurement, contract management, dispute resolution and maintenance of roads.

Poverty alleviation. The project has had a major impact on reducing poverty. The
primary benefit of reclamation has been the increase in annual farm income by Rs. 5,947,
21% more than the PAD estimated increase in farm income for an average holding of 0.4
ha in 1998 real prices. Most important has been the number of expected direct beneficiary
households. The project reached out to 367,621 households, though this is slightly lower
than the revised target of 375,000. However, while the PAD estimated that 75% of these
beneficiaries would be small or marginal farmers, the actual proportion of small and
marginal farmers covered by the project is 93%. This was because the project not only
achieved its expected poverty targeting, but considerably expanded on it with a greater
emphasis after the MTR on sodic class C lands ­ generally with smaller pieces of land
belonging to poorer households.

Distribution of benefits and quality of life improvements.             The PAD logframe
indicators at the CAS impact level specify expected changes in incomes and
welfare/quality of life improvements, including their distribution in relation to poverty
alleviation. No targets were set apart from increased income (see above). Nevertheless
there has been important positive distributional effect by the project. With increased farm
work on reclaimed lands, the project has contributed to the reduced annual out-migration
for labor (typical of poor households) from 98 to 45 person days for men and from 38 to
5 for women, while staying more or less constant in the control villages. The project also
assisted 126,542 villagers to be allotted and/or provided firm possession of 58,660 ha
land. This provided much greater security of tenure to a large number of poor, scheduled
and backward classes or landless. The share of aggregate income of the three poorest
deciles has increased from 6% to 14%.




                                             10

Community participation outcomes. There were key community groupings that were
expected to be established and play a key role in implementation and sustainability. A
total of 3,591 SICs were established, covering all reclamation villages with members
from farmers and self-help groups (SHGs), and fully involved in implementation at the
village level throughout the project cycle - from site planning, delivery of inputs to
implementation review. SIC members themselves selected male and female progressive
farmers to act as change agents. Together with the WUG leaders, they formed the SIC
core team. 2,471 SICs are now formalized under the Gram Panchayat (GP) Water
Management Committee (WMC). 48,167 WUGs covering nearly all beneficiary farm
households are continuing to share water after project activities have been completed in
their area.

The development of women's SHGs has gone beyond original expectations. A total of
7,193 groups (3,500 originally planned) have been set up covering 84,526 members, most
of whom are from small or marginal farmer households. Many of the WSHGs have
scaled up their economic activities and diversified into social programs demanded by
their members such as population management, health care and education for girls. They
have saved Rs. 85.77 million, and recycled this over 3 times. About 94% of the groups
have linked with banks and accessed Rs. 177 million in bank loans. While many women
bought cattle using credit, 6,675 were also linked to 125 commercial milk routes. A total
of 1,716 WSHGs have joined into 165 cluster groups, some with informal contract
linkages to traders. Some of the WSHG clusters have federated and become self-
supporting (see Box 2). WSHGs have acted as focal points for implementing a
`convergence' of other government activities. While over 3,200 men's SHGs were also
set up, these were not as active since they have alternative channels to access credit.

 Box 2. Five "people managed federations" in Hathras district are paying the service
 charges to 7 NGO staff since August 2005, for the services provided by them after
 the withdrawal of project support.

Farmer field schools (FFSs), incorporating elements of originally envisaged block level
farmer committees and technology teams, have been a major achievement. A total of 238
FFSs were formed covering 2,823 villages with 18,225 members. While coverage of
project villages is 79%, all project blocks have an FFS, and 159 are registered societies.
The FFSs have facilitated Kisan credit cards for accessing agricultural inputs for 13,686
mainly male farmers, and other services to members, and in many cases, master trainers
have initiated some income generating activity for FFS members. In response to
supervision mission concerns, steps have been taken to enhance inclusivity of women and
poorer farmers in the FFS. While their links to government have been fairly weak, many
(60%) but not all members felt that the FFS has a fair chance of sustaining after the
project closure.

3.3     Efficiency

The PAD estimated economic rate of return (ERR) was 14.8% for the entire project. For
individual activities the ICRR estimated rates of return are as follows: sodic land



                                             11

reclamation and on-farm development by land class C: 21.6%, B: 14.3% and B+: 34%,
horticulture: 14.6%, main drains: 14.3%, and rural roads: 14.1%. The ICRR estimated
ERR for the project is 19.3%. The ERR is higher than the PAD estimate mainly due to
the following reasons:

· achievements at the end of project implementation exceeded the PAD targets as
    follows: total reclaimed land area by 26%; reclaimed C class land area by 54%;
    rehabilitated main drains by 32%; farm to market link roads by 59%; and wheat
    productivity on reclaimed lands by 11%;
· crop diversification on 20% of the reclaimed areas against nil in the PAD;
· about 22% of the main drain catchment area with critical shallow water problems
    benefited from rehabilitation of main drains against the assumption of 15% in the
    PAD; and
· only the area under fruit crops is lower by 73%, as compared to the PAD estimate.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Overall Rating: Satisfactory

The project was and remains highly relevant. Outcomes were achieved and exceeded on
many important fronts and efficiency was greater than foreseen. There were minor
shortcomings in some component outcomes, but overall the two main objectives were
achieved.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project has had considerable poverty alleviation impacts. Several of the poverty
impacts, gender and quality of life have been noted in the section on assessment of
outcomes above (see Box 3). The project has had a considerable emphasis on gender
issues: WSHGs have provided significant economic benefits; 6,731 ha were allotted in
both spouses' names of 16,926 families; and there has been empowerment in terms of
self confidence, greater prominence in the community with women farmer change agents
and numerous non-economic activities. Interviews indicated that increased incomes have
led to reduced female drudgery, improved housing, clothing and health, and improvement
in education, especially of girls. However, while women spend considerable time
working in the fields, often more than men, they are represented in relatively low
numbers in FFSs and SICs. The possibility of elite capture was minimized, both for on-
farm activities as well as other support, by the very rigorous use of selection criteria. This
has resulted in high proportions of project resources going to support the poor.
Beneficiaries from FFS activities have been largely (80%) marginal and small farmers,
and scheduled and backward castes. However, some attention will need to be given for
ensuring continued inclusivity of the poorer farmers and women for services from FFSs.
FFS leadership has a greater proportion of larger farmers (28%), as compared to the
beneficiary group as a whole.



                                             12

Box.3. Poverty reduction rate doubled in the sodic land households
By end-project, the income distribution has become more equitable in the sodic
beneficiary households. The share of poor households (bottom three income deciles) in
the project area accounted for 6% of the aggregate income, which has more than doubled
during the project period to reach 14% by project-end. The project has made significant
impact on reducing poverty in the beneficiary households. In the project area, the poverty
level has come down from 72% to 48%. After adjusting for the poverty reduction in the
control villages (from 72% to 65%), net poverty reducing effect of the project is 17%
during the project period, averaging about 2.1% per annum in the project benefited
families. For the UP state as a whole, the annual decline in rural poverty is about 1.2%
(1991-2005). Additional rural jobs for 86,710 persons per year are generated from the
cultivated area expansion and intensification in the reclaimed sodic lands, which will
increase the income of landless labor households accounting for 10% of the rural
households in the project area.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening

Agricultural extension system. As discussed in Section 4.2, a major change has taken
place at the village level, with the development of 238 FFSs covering 2,823 villages and
servicing a farmer owned and managed village extension system through volunteer
farmers linked to village level WUGs and SICs. The concept has successfully spread with
a broader technical coverage and into economic activities. At very little cost to
government, a significant institutional change is occurring in the adoption of the FFS
approach at the state level, as a result of the project experience. At district level, the
principles of Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) have been
internalized and steps to introduce prioritized and fully integrated district planning are
underway. However, it still has a long way to go to be fully accepted by the concerned
line departments and become fully sustainable.

Engagement of Gram Panchayat and other administrative level agencies. Project
coordination/planning committees were established at Nayyay Panchayat, block and
district levels. These have played a key role in implementation. The project originally set
out to strengthen the Panchayat Secretariat and District Panchayats to provide
administrative support and greater financial responsibility over project activities, through
trainings and exposure visits. Community meeting halls (Panchayat Bawans) were
constructed to provide venues for training, meetings and other community activities.
These facilities have been important, as they have often been the first neutral and
sheltered spaces available in the community for such activities. Convergence plan
`matrices' were developed at various levels which often provided the Gram Panchayat
opportunities to mobilize a wide range of government programs to project beneficiaries.
It is less clear to what extent Panchayats have been systematically strengthened to sustain
project activities and monitoring.




                                             13

UPBSN and other implementing agencies. The project supported an extensive training
program for UPBSN, NGOs, DOA, PWD, ID and other staff to ensure participatory
implementation of the project activities with active involvement of all stakeholders. The
key features of the participatory management are summarized in Box 4. The trainings on
the whole seem to have been relevant and effective, with generally good levels of
community satisfaction in the trainings. Trainings on participation and technical subjects
directly contributed to the project outcomes. The NGO performance assessment system
provided rigorous and objective mechanisms to ensure improvements in implementation
of community development activities. On an individual level, the capacity built will
remain in the region for future programs. The RSAC has strengthened its environmental
monitoring capacity and services, which it is now providing state-wide, including the
Bank funded UP Water Sector Restructuring Project. The PWD has developed special
methodology for constructing roads in sodic areas which has led to significant cost
savings for maintenance.

 Box 4. Important features of the project participatory support included rigorous
 contracting and monitoring of NGO engagement in all key village level activities;
 community based technology dissemination at the village level; PRA based planning;
 women's participation through self-help groups; transparent delivery of inputs to
 farmers; cost sharing by farmers through labor; and working with various stakeholders
 at all levels to develop convergence and sustainability strategies.

The project experiences have defined a set of approaches and procedures for
implementing land improvement and poverty alleviation programs for the poor, which
have been recognized by GOUP as a model for application within its own programs.
However, one of the results expected from project was the establishment of UPBSN as a
`center of excellence' with a solid base for sustaining and expanding the project efforts.
This achievement has been limited. There was over 100 staff on deputation and as
consultants, who have left on project closure, leaving 21 permanent technical staff with
little capacity for sustaining the monitoring system and follow-up mechanisms. An Exit
Policy was prepared for UPBSN, but the necessary resources to implement this are not
fully in place. Short-term assured funding to sustain the model on large scale by UPBSN
and partners, is only partial with the GOUP funding Kisan Samridhi for land reclamation
costs in new areas only. A `Corpus Fund' was envisaged in the PAD to make UPBSN
more independent of the GOUP funds. However, this has not been done, except for
establishing a corpus fund of Rs. 125.98 million (Anurakshan Nidhi) to meet 10% farmer
contribution for the maintenance of drains.

(c)      Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

As noted above, the project benefited more poor rural families than was anticipated at
appraisal, both from on-farm reclamation and drain improvements. The families with
land in the catchments of the main drains improved through the project increased from
about 122,000 to 174,015 - where 77% are marginal and small farmers. The positive
outcomes and impacts, not foreseen in the design, include: (i) a substantial number of
WSHGs successfully generating additional income; (ii) considerable diversification from



                                            14

paddy and wheat after initial sodic land treatment covering 20% of the reclaimed area;
(iii) paddy and wheat seed exchange among farmers from the seed supplied for
demonstration purposes; (iv) green manure crops covering about 30% of the reclaimed
area during the zaid (summer) season; and (v) the technology for reducing the
maintenance costs and extending the life of roads constructed in sodic lands. Potential
negative effects, such as loss of grazing lands and increased fertilizer use, appear not to
have been significant.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Outcome sustainability will depend upon avoiding reversion of the reclaimed lands to
sodicity by continuing dynamic technological support and backstopping to the
community based extension services and FFFs, and maintenance of the improved
drainage system. As such the probability of reversion to sodicity has been minimized
because the project did not undertake reclamation of sodic lands having water table
within two meter of ground surface.

Sustainability of land reclamation and on-farm developments. As noted above, most
farmers are sustaining rice-wheat cropping, and nearly all WUGs are actively sharing
water after project withdrawal, assisted by the exit plans developed. In addition, there are
positive environmental benefits which GOUP are well aware of and wish to maintain.
Since DOA has adopted the FFS approach with village based MKs and MMKs state-wide,
a major change has happened in the approach and ethos from the earlier top-down
approach, facilitated by the rotation of project staff back to senior positions in DOA.
Greater continuity is possible with secured adequate budgetary provisions for FFS and
farmer extension development5. However, there is a risk that the DOA will offer the
farmer extension workers a payment for services whereupon the concept would be
compromised.

Sustainability of drain maintenance. Main drain maintenance is probably the main
sustainability issue for the reclaimed lands. While M&E studies indicated some issues in
field and link drain maintenance, these were relatively minor. SICs have been merged
with Water Management Committees of the Gram Panchayat, whose responsibility
covers maintenance of tubewells and link drains. Farmers are likely to maintain field and
link drains as they can see benefits and have contributed to a maintenance fund, as seen
also in the earlier reclaimed areas. In addition, National Rural Employment Guarantee


5 The DOA has provided funds for FFS development and support, Rs. 10 million in 2007 and Rs.700
million under the 11th Five Year Plan.




                                              15

Scheme funds are being used in some villages for maintenance of these drains. A
satisfactory funding mechanism has been operationalized for main drain maintenance,
and adequate budgetary provisions made, albeit after considerable delays. This includes
90% budgetary contribution by GOUP and 10% by the farmers. The GOUP has been
providing funds since 2005 as a separate line item in ID budget specifically for the
maintenance of pilot project drains, raised to Rs. 48.3 million from FY 2007-08 to cover
the drains rehabilitated under the project. A corpus fund (Anurakshan Nidhi) of Rs.
125.98 million (invested @ 10.5% annual interest) has been established from the small
levies collected from the farmers on inputs provided by the project to meet the 10%
farmer contribution. However, the timing of fund release and past performance give some
causes for concern. Regular monitoring and corrective actions are required to ensure that
farmers do not lose incentives to maintain the link and field drains.

Maintenance of rural roads and community meeting halls. The PWD has taken the
responsibility of maintaining the roads upgraded under the project in the post­project
period, using their regular budget as per government norms. This is backed up by a
maintenance plan for these roads over the next seven years. GOUP has established a road
fund for the maintenance of the entire road network in the state, including the roads
upgraded under the project. The 1,271 Panchayat Bhawans, constructed under the project,
have been transferred to the Gram Panchayats which have sufficient funds for their
operation and maintenance.

Follow-up support to project areas. While UPBSN, NGOs, DOA, district and other
agencies have been strengthened, in the short-term there are limited resources to provide
continuing support to community institutions should they need follow-up assistance
[Section 3.5 (b)].

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance was satisfactory. The pilot project provided good data based on
sodic lands reclamation experience and a tested working institutional framework.
Consequently the project was overall well designed. However, the project was too
complex with seven components and several implementing agencies which slowed
implementation during the first three years and missed some opportunities to improve the
level and sustainability of farmers' incomes.

(b)     Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly satisfactory




                                            16

Overall supervision has been constructive and supportive throughout and this contributed
significantly to the successful implementation of the project. Much of the success of
supervision derives from the experience, expertise and local knowledge of the task team
that has been continuously involved with the project. Some key risks were foreseen but
when others arose, they were dealt with effectively. The team used Bank management
judiciously to head off potentially serious problems. When it was necessary, supervision
was bold enough to give unsatisfactory ratings with respect to progress of the main drains,
farm to market roads and land reclamation components as well as procurement and
financial management, to spur problem-solving by the implementing agencies and/or the
Borrower. Supervision and the MTR missions were pro-active in incorporating useful
lessons of other projects, particularly DASP, on strengthening farmer extension services
and introducing crop diversification. Supervision acted swiftly on the lessons drawn from
the Bank Project Performance Assessment Report of the pilot project, done in 2004,
which noted that insufficient attention had been paid to green manuring and linking the
village level SICs and WUGs to the Gram Panchayat. The Bank Quality of Supervision
Assessment completed in September 2006 rated supervision for the period 2004-05 and
2005-06 as highly satisfactory overall and for focus on development effectiveness and
adequacy of supervision inputs and processes. Supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects
and candor of quality of Implementation Status Reports were rated satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Taking into consideration performance during both project design and implementation,
the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government was committed to the project throughout preparation and
implementation. The release of counterpart funds was timely and overall support
satisfactory. However, GOUP could not provide continuity of UPBSN managing
directors, with a total of 11 incumbents over the project period. Also, there was
inordinate delay in operationalizing the maintenance policy for the main drains.
Continuity of technical staff in the implementing agencies considerably facilitated project
implementation.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Despite frequent changes of managing director and early implementation delays, the



                                            17

UPBSN and most of its staff did a very good job and delivered the project, especially
considering the scale of implementation and coordination compared to the pilot project.
The information and recommendations provided by the third party M&E service
providers were followed up in a timely manner and immediate steps were taken to
address the identified weaknesses. The NGOs responsible for group formation and
beneficiary motivation performed satisfactorily, as did the ID and PWD in the
implementation, respectively, of the main drains and farm to market roads components
after a slow start. The RSAC provided a high quality objective service in site
identification, village-level and environmental monitoring.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

6.      Lessons Learned

Piloting can produce a pro-poor and sophisticated land development system. Building
on a pilot project, which in itself was a lesson in scaling-up, has produced a set of robust
and highly efficient systems for intervention suited to the particular needs of sodic land
reclamation - while at the same time targeting the needs of the poor. These systems can
provide for technically sound and transparent criteria for area and beneficiary selection,
which target the poor, without excluding benefits to the wider community.

Scaling-up must take into account new conditions. While the project systems developed
for area and beneficiary selection have worked extremely well, they may have done so
partly because of the relative homogeneity of the targeted lands and groups, and the quick
visible returns to sodic land reclamation. This bodes well for scaling-up on further larger
areas of sodic lands, but considerable effort and resources may be needed to extend these
approaches to more complex environments (such as ravine areas in the region).

Third-party independent and timely M&E improves implementation. Independent
monitoring of implementation and using a variety of evaluations of outcome progress
have been invaluable to quickly address issues arising, as well as identify and make
adjustments to further expand the project impacts.

Communities must be supported by demand driven-services. With significant and rapid
asset build-up through reclamation and production benefits, considerable household
resources are released to further enhance livelihoods. To tap those resources communities
must be supported by services which are household-focused, needs-based, responsive to
markets, flexible and multi-sectoral.

Participatory processes and inclusive community institutions that are efficient and
effective remain cornerstones for success. They are essential for site selection, planning
of activities, implementation and sustaining benefits. The building of lasting social
capital needs sustained support, which should start well before physical interventions
with awareness raising and empowerment. For community institutions to grow, their



                                             18

linkages with line departments, credit, marketing and other agribusiness services, need to
be continually strengthened. Key to this is the government facilitation (but not control)
and the help of NGOs to federate them into larger more vibrant and independent
organizations.

Community mobilization and preparatory activities are essential for successful sodic
land reclamation. These result in delayed disbursement in the initial years, followed by
accelerated disbursement in the later years.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

       No issues were raised by the Borrower/implementing agencies.

(b)    Cofinanciers

       Not applicable.

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders
       (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

       No issues were raised by other partners and stakeholders.




                                            19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)    Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal      Actual/Latest
         Components            Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD     Percentage of

                                  millions)        millions)       Appraisal

On-farm development and land
reclamation                               138.3            181.9           131.5
Rehabilitation and maintenance
of main drains                             32.7             40.3           123.2
Technology dissemination                    7.7              3.5             45.0
Upgrading farm to market
roads                                      33.0             37.8           114.6
HRD & institutional capacity
building of support services               12.3             11.0             89.0
Adaptive research                           1.4              0.6             46.2
Project management                         28.4             36.5           128.7

         Total Baseline Cost              253.8            311.6           122.8
Physical Contingencies                     25.7
Price Contingencies                         7.1
          Total Project Costs             286.6            311.6           108.7
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
   Total Financing Required               286.6            311.6           108.7




(b)    Financing
                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest

      Source of Funds         Type of     Estimate     Estimate   Percentage of
                             Cofinancing   (USD          (USD      Appraisal
                                          millions)    millions)
GOUP                                             44.8         41.9        93.5
IDA                                             194.1        197.8       101.9
Beneficiaries                                    47.7         71.9       150.7
                        Total                   286.6        311.6       108.7




                                        20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: On-Farm Development and Land Reclamation

Performance of this component is highly satisfactory.

Detailed mapping of sodic lands: RSAC involvement in area identification, selection and
mapping was very professional with a total 338,428 ha of potential areas mapped.
Through annual mapping by RSAC and joint ground-truthing with UPBSN, annual
reclamation area targets were set. Due to cost savings, a significant increase in actually
reclaimed area could be achieved, 189,715 ha over PAD target of 150,000 ha. The
mapping assisted in detailed identification and monitoring of specific classes of farm
plots. Identifying and demarcating land ownership, allotting new community lands and
providing secure title deeds is a very creditable performance. A total of 16,926 families
have been allotted 6,731 ha GP land; and another 109,616 families have been given
possession of 51,929 ha land, some of which was allotted in 1970s. These are all `C'
category lands and constitute 31% of the total lands reclaimed under the project.
Coordination with the District Magistrates and Revenue Departments through the District
Implementation and Coordination Committees (DICCs) to achieve this difficult task is
notable.

Formation of water user groups and site implementation committees and planning: As the
most basic community implementation groups, a total of 48,167 WUGs, based on
tubewell command areas, have been formed with 97% of the WUGs continuing to share
irrigation water. 3,591 SICs were established to manage the reclamation process, one for
each project village, formed by a male and female representative from each beneficiary
household, male and female Mitra Kisans as trainers, and village animators. The latter
together with WUG leaders formed the `core team' coordinating village activities, and
ensuring inclusive planning and implementation. All villages, through an NGO/UPBSN
facilitated PRA process developed site implementation plans, which defined the phasing
of land development in the village, sequencing of activities, inputs supply and technical
support.

Shallow tubewells and pump sets for leaching and crop production: Of these WUGs,
31,766 acquired new borings and pump sets while the remaining 16,401 had existing
borings and pump sets. The project has created an additional assured irrigation potential
of 127,064 ha at the command of the farmers which is playing a key role in the adoption
of improved technology and crop cultivation practices.

Improvement of field and link drains, land leveling and bunding: Field and link drain
development6 is a vital on-farm development activity with individual farmers and/or
water user groups/management committees responsible for their maintenance. Drains
seen by the ICRR mission were mostly in good shape but more thorough M&E surveys



6About 5,860 km link drains have been constructed.


                                                 21

indicated some delays or shortcomings in maintenance (see Section 4 Assessment of
risk...). As part of the reclamation activities, the planning, training and mobilization
raised awareness and labor contribution by farmers, leading to successful reclamation and
water control. This included land leveling and bunding. Only a few early project plots
had weak crop patches, arising from poor leveling.

Applying chemical and organic amendments to soil: Bulk procurement of 1.8 m t gypsum
was done from 3 state level public mining corporations in Rajasthan. Considering the
logistical complexity, the gypsum was delivered from mines by rails to farms efficiently,
effectively and transparently. To reduce the cost of reclamation, the project has
successfully used pressmud (more below), organic wastes and scraping of surface salts,
resulting in reclamation of 26% additional sodic lands as compared with the PAD target
of 150,000 ha. The main alternative to gypsum, was use of "pressmud", a sugar mill by-
product, in reclamation of 8,640 ha. It is only economical within 10 km of a sugar mill
where it has proved a good alternative to gypsum, provided the price is competitive. It
has the additional benefit of adding organic matter to the soil.

The green manure program using Dhaincha during the first two years, as part of the
reclamation process, has been very successful and covered 184,000 ha. Parallel extension
of other organic manures, including ploughed in cereal straw stubbles, farm yard manure
and compost are also encouraging. Given the past resistance to the adoption of green
manuring in the state, its incorporation into regular farming systems under the project is
an important additional benefit.

Crop production: With technical guidance from NGOs, UPBSN and DOA field staff,
farmers have intensified their cropping patterns to assist the reclamation process, sustain
it, and expand the benefits from it. In most cases, the paddy/wheat rotation is retained for
the first three crop years, with some diversification thereafter. With promotion of green
manuring, there was a consequent decrease in chemical fertilizer use due to green manure
nutrient contributions.

Horticultural production: The project had an inter-cropped horticultural sub-component
covering 8,000 ha, comprising of guava, ber or aonla intercropped with crops such as
mustard and green gram in the first five years. Performance of this small sub-component
was unsatisfactory as the tree survival rate was less than 50%.

Diversification: An unexpected positive result of the project, as a result of adoption of
lessons from a parallel DASP, was the successful promotion of diversification. After 2-3
years of rice-wheat cycle, about 20% farmers have diversified to cultivation of sugarcane,
maize, oilseeds, pulses and high value vegetable, spice and medicinal crops.
Diversification was given greater emphasis after the MTR when the focus of
demonstration programs was switched from paddy and wheat to diversification
opportunities. Unfortunately, incremental production information on these crops was not
captured in M&E surveys. A number of farmers did not diversify on their reclaimed land
but did do so on the other land they had.




                                             22

Withdrawal/exit strategy: As a part of the withdrawal strategy, UPBSN undertook a
revisit and exit policy exercise in 2005-06. The sustainability index prepared from this
revealed that out of a total of 3,263 villages, 2,601, 594 and 68 villages were under good,
medium and poor sustainability categories, respectively. Surveys indicated that only
about 2-3% of the reclaimed land is not being cropped in any one year, mainly for
reasons of farmer absenteeism.

The post reclamation re-visit survey proved very useful in identifying problems to enable
corrective follow up measures. These included sodic patches requiring additional
treatment, maintenance of field drains, some boring failures, lack of pump sets, and
inactivity of some Mitra Kisans and Mahila Mitra Kisans. A follow up program was
initiated and the identified deficiencies were largely corrected. A training program to
develop village based pump mechanics will also contribute to sustaining the irrigation
assets.

The project has implemented a withdrawal strategy focusing on the sustainability of
assets and institutions created under the project. Most of the SICs have been
amalgamated into the WMCs of the GPs. This amalgamation required transfer of
community assets and SIC funds to GPs and recognition of the Mitra Kisan and Mahila
Mitra Kisan as co-opted members of the GP. The SICs have collected farmer contribution
of Rs. 6.97 million, of which Rs. 4.79 million has been utilized for the maintenance of
link drains.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Main Drains

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

Rehabilitation and modeling of main drains: Under the project, rehabilitation and
remodeling of 7,620 km of main drains and construction of 3,058 pucca structures have
been completed. All project completion reports have been approved. The project has thus
exceeded the PAD target of 5,750 km and MTR target of 7,000 km main drain
rehabilitation at a cost of about Rs. 1,898.8 million as compared with PAD target of
Rs. 1970.9 million. In all, 10,608 km of main drains have been rehabilitated under the
two projects, constituting about 50% of the drains in the project area, and 26% of the total
drains in UP.

Technical assistance and equipment for monitoring and survey: Trainings/technical
assistance was provided on planning, design, quality assurance and contract management
for drainage civil works in 2002-03. The quality of works was assessed independently by
Consulting Engineering Services. The entire drainage networks in the state was mapped
on GIS and is now being used by many agencies.

Maintenance of drains and transfer to communities: Maintenance of 6,522 km of pilot
project and 7,565 km of present project drains has been completed. After some delay, the
drain maintenance policy has been developed and implemented since FY 2004-05 and
adequate funds provided by GOUP and the communities (see Section 4). The timing of
maintenance does remain a critical issue based on past ID performance. Major transfer of


                                             23

responsibility (apart from the 10% contribution) to community, in terms of a more direct
role in implementation, has not occurred.

Component 3: Technology Dissemination

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

District and block implementation and technology teams: An Inter-Departmental
Working Group constituted under the Chairmanship of Agriculture Production
Commissioner has been promoting inter-departmental coordination and policy
harmonization at the state level in addition to reviewing implementation progress of
technology dissemination programs. The group has met 7 times and been instrumental in
dovetailing project and departmental activities. Broad-based DICC under the
chairmanship of District Magistrate has provided good oversight in the implementation of
land demarcation, allotment and land titling program; land reclamation and technology
dissemination activities. The PAD also made provision to test the privatization of
extension services through NGOs. This was attempted in Fatehphur, Hardoi and
Pratapgarh districts; but was not sustainable after the withdrawal of project support. In
the end, a similar system of farmer field schools was developed covering all the project
blocks. As the overall component objective is to develop a de facto privatized farmer-
owned service at the village level, this activity appears redundant (the same was the case
for a similar activity under DASP).

Multi-disciplinary research and extension teams and strategic research and extension
plans (SREPs): To promote decentralized, farmer-focused technology dissemination
system,    and    strengthen   research-extension   linkages,   Agricultural   Technology
Management Agencies (ATMAs) were set up in 8 project districts. In addition, 32
ATMAs were set up under DASP. ICRR mission interviews in Etawah district also
indicated that principles envisaged for the ATMA have been internalized: SREPs are
prepared and implemented with farmer, researcher, extensionist and other stakeholder
participation. However, plan coverage is not necessarily complete, for example the
district plan for Etawah did not have a specific program for the reclaimed sodic lands.

Strengthening communications capacity: The project identified communications to be a
possible impediment to technology dissemination due to the geographic dispersion of the
project and the weak communication system throughout the project area. A multi-faceted
approach was used to reach out to project areas utilizing facilities that were available. It
employed new technologies and revived a number of traditional technologies with great
success. For example, 847 bi-weekly radio and 265 project specific TV broadcasts were
transmitted; 805 libraries were established in Panchayat Bhawans; 115 hoardings were
put up; pamphlets, posters, and traditional media, such a songs and puppet shows, were
extensively used.

Early in the project the lack of rapid communication technology was overcome by
systematic planning based on the experiences of the pilot project. Any gaps were filled as
the project progressed by the expansion of the GSM telephone networks into the project
areas. The project also tried two new systems: video conferencing and the creation of e-


                                             24

chaupals (electronic community centers) but these did not become widely used and their
potential was underutilized.

Dissemination of information on effective land and water management practices: The
Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) research verification sub-component was
perhaps somewhat misplaced in the technology dissemination component rather than in
the adaptive research component. However, from 60 ITKs recommended, 11 ITKs were
selected for trial at DOA research stations. Five were validated and deemed suitable for
dissemination through DOA extension. The main technology dissemination program was
through a large demonstration program comprising a total 16,442 agricultural and 452
horticultural demonstrations (usually 0.4 ha). Some of these demonstrations were also
used as seed exchange sites whereby the owner of the demonstration plot was contracted
to pass on 50% of the harvest to other farmers on an exchange basis. This useful add-on
activity resulted in 46 tons of improved crop seed exchange.

Human resource development and technical assistance for project implementation: A
comprehensive training and exposure visit program was delivered in cascade form:
district level training institutions/UPBSN/NGO staff training MKs, MMKs, group leaders
and animators, who in turn disseminated the information to the village beneficiaries,
mainly through SIC meetings. UPBSN has organized various types of training and field
days: technical, business oriented and leadership development. Trainings of a technical
nature, were both for the reclamation process and for food production, integrated pest and
nutrient management, diversification and other cropping issues.

Mobilizing the participation of farmers in advisory committees and technology teams:
The development of a community based extension system has evolved from the
experiences of the pilot project and DASP. It is based on locally selected village
volunteer extension agents Mitra Kisans (male) and Mahila Mitra Kisans (female).
Groupings of about 10 villages form a farmer field school (FFS), essentially a farmer
association which selected subject matter master trainers from amongst their members
and who were especially trained to serve as resource persons to the Mitra Kisans, Mahila
Mitra Kisans and the community at large. Links are established between FFS and external
agencies for services such as banks, input supply agents and research scientists.

Some 238 FFS have been developed serving all project villages. 15 FFSs have been
upgraded to e-choupals with computer facilities and improved information sourcing
capacities. 2,429 master trainers have been identified and trained in a wide range of
subjects appropriate to their locality7. 81% of members belong to the small and marginal
farmer category. 99% of beneficiaries knew of FFS existence and 73% were aware of the
trainings offered.




7Agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, credit, bee keeping, marketing, etc.


                                                    25

Component 4: Upgrading Farm-to-Market Roads

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

Upgrading of roads: Initially, this component included upgrading of 700 km of rural
roads involving an expenditure of Rs. 1,880 million. 1,112 km of rural roads have been
upgraded involving an expenditure of Rs. 1,715 million. This includes a maintenance
pilot for 187 km roads. The roads were selected from a core network linking each village
in the project area to nearby markets. The effective identification of roads and quality
control has been the focus of attention under the project.

Maintenance of upgraded roads: The 187 km roads, taken up under the maintenance pilot,
have the provision of 3 years subsequent maintenance after completion of the defect
liability period. Except a few remaining roads which are still under the defect liability
period, all roads have been transferred to the regular divisions of PWD for maintenance.
The maintenance expenditure of these roads is to be borne by PWD and the contracts are
to be supervised by the regular PWD divisions. The PWD has agreed to provide the
necessary funds for maintenance of these roads for the next three years from the regular
maintenance grants. A road fund has been established by introducing a levy on the sale of
petrol and diesel to mobilize additional funds for maintenance of roads ­ significantly
improving the maintenance of roads in the state, though these are not specifically targeted
to the project improved roads.

Component 5: HRD and Institutional Capacity Building of Support Services

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

Strengthening of Government agencies and NGOs: A comprehensive training program,
covering all the implementing stakeholders, was implemented by over 40 local, national
and international agencies. The project faced considerable challenges in implementing
such a large training program - participatory methodologies were new for many agencies,
and UPBSN had to mobilize and tap many local agencies to assist in training. To ensure
adequate support on capacity building training and communication, organizers had to be
identified and recruited for each district. They were especially important for undertaking
more detailed training needs assessments and adapting training program. The human
resource development and institutional capacity building of support services covered
village and district Panchayats, NGOs and other line agencies, as well as the key support
agencies involved in project implementation. Large numbers of trainings were provided
to UPBSN and implementing and support agencies (see Annex 7 Borrower's ICR).
Although concerns were raised by supervision mission on the quality of the assessment of
trainings, the report did indicate mostly satisfied responses from communities of the
trainings they had received.

Training to communities: In addition to the training of farmers, WUGs and FFS master
trainers, core team members and MKs/MMKs were trained to serve as extension agents
(discussed in component 3). Furthermore, local level extensionists of the DOA were



                                             26

trained for providing extension support and technical back-up to farmers. SHGs were also
strengthened through various training programs, workshops and exposure visits, and
members were provided specific enterprise trainings, though only to a small proportion of
women. Through encouragement of convergence further training from a range of
government and private agencies has also been provided.

Pilot Micro Credit Action Research (MCAR): For addressing concerns of sustainability
of emerging microcredit activities under the pilot project, the MCAR was successfully
implemented from 1999 to 2005 in Hathras and Raebareli districts with NGOs and local
Banks. SHG numbers and membership have expanded, savings and loans have increased.
The learning and success from the MCAR pilot was extended to the project through
identification and revival of weak SHGs, and training of SHG leaders in group
management. The project has supported the creation of 10,400 self-help groups to whom
Rs. 255 m has been disbursed. Kisan credit cards have been accessed by 366,091
beneficiaries who have received loans of Rs. 1,505 m.

Strengthening of Panchayats: Of the 1,272 Panchayat Bhawans planned, 1,271 have been
completed. Construction of one Bhawan had to be abandoned due to site dispute. All 810
additional modules have been constructed. These buildings are being used as Panchayat
office; meeting place by GPs, SICs, FFSs and SHGs; information resource centers; and
venues for social gatherings. 1,342 libraries have also been established. Government
Orders have been issued for the proper use and maintenance of Panchayat Bhawans. A
large number of GP officers were trained and attended study tours to strengthen their role
and serve project communities. A study of the Panchayat planning and its outreach was
conducted. As a result, village officials have been actively involved in project activities
and identifying opportunities for non-project related government programs.

Marketing support: Steps taken for strengthening marketing of the increased agricultural
production include setting up of 360 sodic haats and 23 covered shed haats, linking of
206 sodic villages with Mandi Samitis, allotment of 114 shops in the Mandis to project
beneficiaries, buy-back arrangements with procurement agencies and contract farming.
One progressive farmer in each FFS was trained as a marketing animator.

To cater to the needs of milk producers, the project has facilitated linking of 338 villages
with 125 milk routes and tie-ups with the dairies. A total of 19 Primary Horticultural
Cooperative Societies have been set up and several WSHGs have been supported in
setting up agro-processing income generating activities. 63 income generation activities
clusters have been promoted with assured backward and forward linkages.

Participatory management: Participatory management cut across several components of
the project particularly, on-farm development, technology dissemination, institutional
development and project management. It was coordinated, supported and monitored
exceptionally well by the UPBSN participatory management cell, contributing
considerably to project success.




                                            27

Component 6: Adaptive Research

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

Adoption of competitive research system: To bring pluralism in the research system and
support short term, problem solving research, the project has helped in developing and
operationalizing a Competitive Agriculture Research Program (CARP). In all 335
proposals were received in response to advertisements for inviting research projects on
the identified themes. NGOs participated but no interest was evoked from the private
agri-business sector. All the 30 research projects undertaken by the SAUs, central
institutes, general universities and NGOs have been successfully completed before
project closure. Because the PAD gave sound thematic guidance on research priorities,
the promising technologies identified through this research have been taken up for further
testing and/or mainstreamed through the extension system of the State. Though not all the
research projects were designed to develop specific technologies, 14 projects have
produced recommendations considered fit for extension such as sodic tolerant crop
genotypes, guidance on minimizing gypsum dressing and nutrient management, and
standardization of specifications for pressmud. A corpus of Rs. 80 million has been
created for the sustainability of CARP program after project closure.

Advisory committee and linkages with national and international institutes: The Research
Advisory Committee has provided effective oversight to the research program under the
project. However, not much progress has been made in developing international linkages.

Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal has established a sub-station at Shivri
Farm for carrying out location-specific land reclamation research in UP, implemented
relevant training programs and completed 9 of the 30 CARP projects.

Component 7: Project Management

The performance of this component is satisfactory.

Strengthening UPBSN and project implementation structure: The overall implementation
of the project has been managed through an expanded UPBSN as planned, operating in
all project districts. The state and district level project units managed all aspects of
planning, coordination and implementation. Good technical and administrative staffing
and capacity building of UPBSN for implementation of the project was set up, with
generally good continuity of the core staff. High turn over of senior and middle
management as well as some technical staff positions has been a major issue for the
project.

Environmental Management: Overall, the project has been carrying out the
environmental monitoring and management activities satisfactorily. Comprehensive
environmental monitoring for surface and groundwater and soil quality was cost-
effectively performed by RSAC, providing timely and useful information on project
progress at farm level, and data for activity adjustments. RSAC established longer-term
groundwater monitoring stations. The project has thus been able to ensure satisfactory
environmental management and minimization of risk from the project. Special studies


                                            28

were conducted to monitor changes in fauna and flora and address specific issues, such as
perceived risks to Sarus crane population.

Monitoring and evaluation: Based on workshops, annual district planning meetings and
feedback from monitoring reports, the project has been implemented through well crafted
activity schedules. Annual action plans were prepared using a computerized project
management system which defined each project activity and disseminated to all
implementing staff in the field. A computerised network for sharing monitoring data was
set up and linked to the UPBSN MIS and GIS mapping system, some of which was web
accessible, and was regularly updated. Close monitoring of reclamation needs and
activity schedules ensured timely supply of inputs at the project sites.

For assessing socio-economic and environmental impacts, and monitoring the
implementation progress, third party independent external M&E agencies were hired.
WAPCOS­TAHAL and Agricultural Finance Corporation conducted concurrent
monitoring, and also assessed the project impacts. These independent progress
monitoring activities and how they were used were critical for project success (see
Section 2.3). Quality of road and drainage works was monitored by Consulting
Engineering Services. Revisit was carried out in 2005-06 for the first six cohorts.
Findings of M&E agencies were regularly discussed in monthly project management
meetings and compliance with all issues ensured. The project has produced quality
progress, completion, and synthesis reports, special studies and impact assessments. A
list of key studies and reports is given in Annex 9.

Summary table of key outputs:

                                   Baseline       Original        Formally       Actual Values
                                     Value     Target Values       Revised          Achieved
                                                   (from           Target       at Completion or
                                                  approval         Values         Target Years
                                                 documents)
 1                                                    Sodic land area treated
 Total sodic land area treated                 150,000          180,000         189,715
 Class C land                                  82,500                           126,990
 Class B land                                  40,500                           23,344
 Class B+ land                                 27,000                           39,381
 Date achieved                                 2005             2007            2007
 Comments                          Actual achievement is 26% higher than the original PAD
 (incl. % achievement)             target and 5.4 % more than the revised target values. More
                                   importantly, the reclaimed lands exceeded the target by 54%
                                   for class C lands, which are pro-poor since 50% of the land
                                   area with the marginal farmers is affected by sodicity.
 2                                 Farmer beneficiaries under sodic land reclamation and
                                   OFD improvement
 Total number of beneficiary                   375,000           No revision    367,621
 farmers
 Number of marginal and small                  281,250           No revision    341,888
 farmers


                                              29

                                Baseline       Original         Formally       Actual Values
                                  Value    Target Values         Revised          Achieved
                                                (from            Target       at Completion or
                                               approval          Values         Target Years
                                             documents)
Proportion of marginal and                 75%                 No revision    93%
small farms (%)
Date achieved                              2005                2007           2007
Comments (incl. %               Marginal and small farm beneficiary farmers at project-end
achievement)                    are 22% more than the PAD target; which is pro-poor since
                                73% of the marginal and small farmers live below the poverty
                                line.
3                               Improved water managements practices implemented
Additional irrigation potential            135,000             No revision    127,064
area created (ha)
Area of improved irrigation                150,000             180,000        171,700
and drainage network
Percent of rice and wheat area  26%         Not given          No revision    71%
irrigated at critical stage
Date achieved                   1999       2005                2007           2007
Comments (incl. %               Additional irrigation potential created is lower than the target
achievement)                    because the existing boring was found to be 46% more than
                                the PAD estimated value; hence, the number of new borings
                                has come down.
4                               Number of SICs/WUGs/FFSs/WSHGs formed
Site Implementation                        3,500               No revision    3,591
Committees
Water User Groups                           37,500             No revision    48,167
Farmer Field Schools                       Not given           No revision    238
Men Self Help Groups                        3,500              No revision    3,213
Women Self Help Groups                      3,500              No revision    7,193
Date achieved                               2005                2007          2007
Comments (incl. %               While slightly fewer than expected men's SHGs were
achievement)                    formed, more than twice as many women's groups were
                                formed. With more area reclaimed more WUGs were formed
                                than originally planned.
5                               Remodeled/Rehabilitated main drains
Length of main drain (km)                  5,750               7,603          7,620
Date achieved                              2005                2007           2007
Comments (incl. %               Improved drain length is 32% more than the PAD target and
achievement)                    marginally higher than the revised target.
6                               Farm to market roads upgraded
Road length (km)                           700               1,330            1,112
Date achieved                              2005              2007             2007
Comments (incl. %               Actual achievement is 59% more than the PAD target value,
achievement)                    which includes the 187 km of roads from the maintenance
                                pilot.



                                           30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

A.      Project Benefits and Expected Returns in PAD

Project economic analysis in PAD focused on quantifying the incremental benefits from
sodic land reclamation and on-farm development (OFD) related investments, following
standard methodology. Three major sources of benefits namely, land reclamation
(including OFD) benefits, main drain benefits and rural roads benefits are identified.
Land reclamation benefits are derived from incremental crop production arising from
crop area expansion, increased cropping intensity, enhanced crop productivity and crop
diversification following improved agriculture management in the reclaimed class C,
class B and class B+ sodic lands. Main drain benefits are estimated from incremental
crop production due to reduced water logging and annual flooding duration in the
catchment areas of the improved main drains falling outside the reclaimed sodic lands.
Main drain benefits are estimated from wheat crop area expansion in the reduced water
logged areas and enhanced wheat productivity due to early planting in the areas with
reduced flooding duration. Rural roads benefits are assessed based on the savings in
transport cost for agriculture commodities and increased economic development impacts
due to rural roads investments.

The major gains in agriculture, driven by improvements in cropped area, crop
productivity, cropping intensity and crop diversification, were captured by representative
crop budgets for paddy, wheat and dhaincha (green manure crop) in class C, class B and
class B+ sodic lands. Based on the observed choices made by farmers, aonla and ber,
with mustard and aromatic plants as inter-crops, were considered as representative
alternative crops in case of horticulture. The economic analysis was carried out separately
for: (i) class C, class B and class B+ sodic reclaimed lands; (ii) horticulture; (iii) main
drains rehabilitation; (iv) rural roads; and (v) overall project. Import/export parity prices
are estimated for the internationally traded farm commodities and inputs. The project
analysis was done for 25 year period at 1998 prices using a standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.9 for farm inputs and commodities that are not traded internationally and 12%
opportunity cost of capital.

In PAD, economic analysis of sodic lands reclamation and OFD related investments
rested on following assumptions: 55% increase in net cropped area, 201% increase in
weighted cropping intensity, 298% increase in weighted paddy yield, 575% increase in
weighted wheat yield, 15% area (coming under class C lands) to go under horticulture
with intercropping, 100% area under paddy to be preceded with a crop of dhaincha for
green manuring, and continuous cropping with improved production technology in the
reclaimed sodic lands, including the application of zinc sulphate as demonstrated during
the project implementation. For the economic analysis of main drain investments, the
assumptions were: 15% of the catchment area of the improved main drains would benefit
by reduction in water logged areas and duration of annual flooding, 90% of such
benefited area to come under early planting of wheat with 5% increase in wheat yield.
The remaining 10% of the benefited area would be planted with wheat as a new crop in
rabi which was not previously feasible due to prolonged water logging. The economic
analysis of rural road investments was based on the following assumptions: average


                                              31

savings in transport cost @ Rs. 16/t/km (1998 prices), average annual transport of 9.6 t of
agriculture commodities per household, average annual household income of Rs 40,000
(1998 prices), and increase in average household income by 0.5% every year due to
improved development activities following the rural road investments.

The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for overall project was estimated at 14.8%. The
project wide analysis considered 99% of the project costs, with the exclusion of adaptive
research component only. Illustrative ERRs for selected project activities were as
follows: (i) land reclamation: class C land 12.3%, class B land 19.6%, class B+ land
8.1%, horticulture 14.2%; (ii) main drain rehabilitation 29.1%; and (iii) rural roads 12%.
As per PAD, implementation of sodic land reclamation project was expected to
additionally produce 416,076 t of paddy, 389,148 t of wheat and 175,500 t of fruits per
annum after full development, directly and indirectly benefiting 917,200 farm families,
from the project area as a whole. At full development, the project was expected to create
79,350 additional jobs (300 working days per job) for the farm labor per annum.

B.      ICRR Estimation Methodology

PAD methodology was applied to the extent feasible in order to update estimated project
returns. The analysis was done at 2007 prices. A majority of the data used for ICRR
estimation has been collected from M&E and impact assessment studies undertaken by
the external independent agencies. There were some variations in the design and quality
of implementation of these studies, including the use of "control villages" and "non-
project villages" (non-project villages are also benefited by improved main drains and
rural link roads). For instance, the M&E for agricultural and socio-economic impact
assessment study has covered the pre-reclamation year and post-reclamation coverage
was limited to only three cropping years following the reclamation. In re-estimating
returns for the ICRR, attempts were made to overcome some of the limitations of M&E
through use of information derived from other sources such as published statistics and
triangulation from discussions and field visits during the ICRR mission. Parity prices for
relevant tradable goods have been estimated using World Bank Commodity Price
Projections. Financial prices of non-traded goods and services have been adjusted using
SCF of 0.9. For comparability, cost and benefit flows have been calculated with 12%
opportunity cost of capital over a period of 25 years in line with the PAD analysis.

Sodic Land Reclamation and OFD Benefits

The project targeted to reclaim 150,000 ha of sodic lands with OFD and irrigation
development interventions, which consisted of class C lands (82,500 ha), class B lands
(40,500 ha), and class B+ lands (27,000 ha). Incremental benefits arise from increase in
crop area, cropping intensity, crop productivity and crop diversification. Table 1
summarizes ICRR estimations by the project-end. Increases in crop area and cropping
intensity are high, since class C sodic lands, accounting for 55% of the without project
(WOP) area, are not cultivated in the kharif and rabi seasons while class B sodic lands
accounting for 27% of the WOP area are not cultivated in rabi season.




                                             32

Returns to land reclamation and                  Table 1. Project impacts on crop area expansion,
OFD investments were estimated                           intensification and diversification
using representative farm models for
                                                     Sodic land/Crops                 Crop area (ha)
marginal (0.63 ha), small (1.42 ha)
and large farms (3.51 ha) and                                                       WOP          WP
                                           Crop
aggregated for the reclaimed sodic              Paddy, C class land                            126990
land area as a whole using farm size            Wheat, C class land                            101046
distribution as weights. Overall,               Paddy, B class land                40500       19350
average farm holding size is about              Wheat, B class land                            15396
1.1 ha, out of which 50% comes                  Fruits, B+ class land                          3994
under sodic lands and the rest under            Paddy, B+ class land               27000       39381

normal land area. No impact on                  Wheat, B+ class land               27000       31335

normal land area is assumed, which         Diversification
gets canceled out while estimating              Mustard                                        15177
the incremental benefits due to the             Pulses                                         15177

project. The proportion of sodic                Potato                                         7589

lands is highest in marginal farms         Sodic land area                         150000      189715

(59%), followed by small farms             Gross cropped area                      94500       375436

(49%) and large farms (35%).               Cropping intensity                      63%         198%


The ICRR analysis has been conducted with respect to major crops namely: paddy, wheat,
mustard, pulses and potato - which together dominated the gross cropped area on the
representative farms. Major crops like paddy and wheat, cultivated in the reclaimed sodic
lands are differentiated by land class types, with appropriate crop budgets to represent
different land classes. Major expansion in kharif and rabi cropped area has occurred in
the reclaimed class C lands. Reclaimed class B lands are additionally cropped in rabi
season. Crop diversification is limited to 20% of the crop area in rabi as per the impact
assessment studies, and mustard, pulses and potato are the major diversified crops. For
these crops, differences in yield, cropping intensity, crop mix and input costs (Tables 1
and 2) between with project (WP) and without project (WOP) situations were used to
estimate the incremental benefit from the project. For horticulture, production models for
guava and aonla, intercropped with mustard and pulses, have been used for assessing the
benefits    from    horticulture     Table 2. Project impacts on crop productivity and returns
development.              While         Sodic land/Crops              Yield (t/ha)         Returns
horticulture crops were planted                                                            (Rs./ha)
in 7,989 ha, only 50% survival,                                     WOP        WP      WOP       WP
mostly occurring in class B          Cereals

lands   is   reported.  Overall         Paddy, C class land                     3.50              9435

weighted cropping intensity has         Wheat, C class land                     3.00             14630

gone up to 198% in the                  Paddy, B class land            1.4      3.50    1230      9435
                                        Wheat, B class land                     3.00             14630
reclaimed lands.                        Fruits, B class land                                     93779
                                        Paddy, B+ class land           2.3      3.50    3690      9435
Enhanced crop productivity in           Wheat, B+ class land           2.0      3.00    8020     14630
wheat has ensured increase in        Diversification
returns    for    the    project        Mustard                                 1.04             12742
beneficiary farms (Table 2). All        Pulses                                  0.98             15823
diversified crops gave higher           Potato                                  25.0             22505



                                              33

returns compared to the cereals. At full development, agriculture activities in reclaimed
and OFD benefited project area would generate incremental economic benefits of Rs.
4,139 million every year.

Main Drain Benefits

The project targeted to improve 5,750 km of main drains. By the project end, 7,620 km
main drains were remodeled/rehabilitated. Average catchment area is 230 ha/km of the
main drain. Remote sensing studies estimated that 22% of the catchment area has
benefited by reduction in water logged areas. Early planting of wheat is made possible in
385,600 ha of land area benefited by reduced water logging due to the improved main
drains. By design, the sodic land area selected for reclamation treatment excluded the
areas susceptible to water logging. Hence enhanced wheat productivity by 5% over the
existing B class land wheat yield of 2 t/ha over area benefited by rehabilitated main
drains is quantified and included as a project benefit. At full development, improved
drains would generate annually, Rs. 325 million worth of economic benefits at 2007
prices.

Rural Link Road Benefits

The project upgraded 1,112 km of rural link roads in the sodic villages, which includes
the maintenance pilot for 187 km as against the PAD target of 700 km. With regard to
rural infrastructure, the benefit from upgrading rural link roads has been captured in the
form of savings on vehicle operating costs (VOC), savings in time and increased price
realization for the marketed agricultural commodities. Incremental benefits due to rural
roads are quantified using the concept of consumer surplus. One of the quantifiable
benefits following rural roads development is savings in vehicle operating costs, implying
a downward shift in the cost curve and the resulting movement along the demand curve.
This brings in VOC benefits from two sources, namely, incremental traffic volume and
non-incremental traffic volume, which is estimated by assuming a linear demand segment.
VOC savings are estimated for seven types of vehicles based on the roads impact
assessment study and other standard procedures suggested in the Indian Roads Congress
Manual (Table 3). Traffic volume is expected to increase during the 25 year period @
5%/annum for the developed rural roads while it would increase @ 2%/annum without
the project. The estimated economic benefits from VOC savings is Rs. 0.07
million/year/km for the developed roads at 2007 prices.

Another quantifiable benefit from                  Table 3. VOC and passenger density
improved road connectivity is            Vehicle type      Vehicle operating costs Passengers/vehicle
value    of  time    saved   (VOT).                              (Rs./km)

Following      similar    procedure                        WOP     WP      VOC      WOP        WP
                                                                          savings
adopted for VOC, the consumer
surplus arising from incremental        Carts              5.2     6.7    1.5      3          3
                                        Cycle/Rickshaw     0.3     0.5    0.2      1.5        1.5
traffic volume and non-incremental      Bus                11.3    14.3   3.0      40         40
traffic volume are quantified and       Truck              11.2    14.3   3.1      3          3
added to estimate the VOT with          Agriculture-       11.4    13.9   2.5      5          5
                                        Tractor/Trailer
the project. The value of time is @     Car/Jeep           4.6     8.0    3.4      4          5
                                        Two wheeler        1.4     2.6    1.2      2          2



                                             34

Rs. 6.60/hour. VOT savings                                Table 4. Traffic density and travel time
are estimated for seven types                      Vehicle type       Traffic volume        Travel time
of vehicles using the data on                                          (vehicles/day)      (hour/10 km)
traffic volume and travel time                                        WOP          WP     WOP         WP
available for before and after                   Carts               2.8          7.1         1.9     1.15
project situation (Table 4).                     Cycle/Rickshaw      86.7         140.3       2.4     1.85
The      estimated         economic              Bus                 0.0          0.4        0.75       0.5

benefits from VOT savings is                     Truck               0.2          1.0         2.5       1.5

Rs. 0.05 million/year/km for                     Agriculture-        3.7          8.9         3.3     1.65
                                                 Tractor/Trailer
improved        roads      at     2007
prices.                                          Car/Jeep            0.9          5.4         0.3     0.25
                                                 Two wheeler         5.4          48.3        0.8       0.6


Another quantifiable benefit from roads upgradation is the increased price realized for the
agricultural commodities produced by the project participants. Major agricultural
commodities to fetch higher prices include rice, wheat, mustard, oilseeds, fruits and
vegetables. The marketed surplus, as estimated in the impact studies, varied from 40% for
cereals to 85% for pulses and oilseeds and 100% for fruits and vegetables. Based on the
roads impact assessment, a price increase of 3.7% for the marketed commodities is
considered for economic analysis of roads investment. The estimated economic benefits
from better producer price realization is Rs. 0.165 million/year/km for the sodic villages
benefited by the improved roads connectivity.

C.       Economic Rate of Return

The comparative picture of project benefits, costs and returns estimated for individual
activities is given in Table 5. The ICRR estimated ERR8 for the overall project is 19.3%,
as against 14.8% projected at the time of appraisal. In calculating the project ERR, all
project costs were included, and set                      Table 5. PAD and ICRR estimated returns at 2007 prices
against the incremental benefits arising
from reclaimed sodic lands, improved                                                                        ERR

main drain catchments, and upgraded                                                          Unit     PAD       ICRR
                                                          Land Reclamation & OFD
rural link roads. While the present                          Class C Land                  %            12.3     21.6
value (PV) of actual project costs is                        Class B Land                  %            19.6     14.3
marginally more than the PV of PAD                           Class B+ Land                 %             8.1     34.0
estimated costs at constant 2007 prices,                     Horticulture                  %            14.2     14.6
the PV of realized benefits is more by                    Main Drain Rehabilitation        %            29.1     14.3
90% as compared to the PV of PAD                          Rural Roads                      %            12.0     14.1
projected benefits. This is mainly                        Overall Project                  %            14.8     19.3
driven by land reclamation and OFD                        Present value of costs           Rs. m      10221     11085
benefits coming from the reclaimed                        Present value of benefits        Rs. m       8555     16222
sodic class C and class B+ lands.                         NPV for the Project              Rs. m       1665      5137




8The ICRR estimates did not consider some of the benefits like expanding crop productivity, diversification, income
generating activities or impact of 46 tons of improved crop seeds exchanged.




                                                          35

Horticulture and rural roads recorded marginally higher rate of return, while class B lands
registered lower rate of return as compared to the PAD projected ERR.

Reasons for divergence in ERR

As compared to the PAD estimate, the end-project achievements exceeded the physical
targets in most of the performance indicators as follows: total reclaimed sodic land area
by 26%; reclaimed C class sodic land area by 54%; rehabilitated main drain length by
32%; farm to market link roads by 59%; wheat crop yield in sodic reclaimed areas by
11%; weighted cropping intensity by 3.2%; and reduction in shallow water table affected
lands by 92%. Also, crop diversification has taken place in 20% of the sodic reclaimed
areas against nil in PAD. Under the improved drains, 22% of the main drain catchment
area with critical shallow water problem benefited as against the assumption of 15% in
PAD. Only the area under fruits by end-project is lower by 73% as compared to the PAD
estimate.

Sustainability

Efficiency in the utilization of sodic lands is ensured through a sequence of farmer-led
land reclamation processes to restore the productivity and additional assured ground
water irrigation of the reclaimed lands, continuous cropping in both kharif and rabi
seasons and about 30% of the reclaimed lands coming under green manure based farming.
Rehabilitation of main drains helped to improve the area with critical shallow water
problems, where wheat sowing in rabi could be advanced by a week to gain 5% increase
in yield. Roads have improved market access by reducing the transportation cost and
higher realization of farm commodity prices by about 3.7% for cereals, pulses and
oilseeds.

Sustainability of the project benefits is considered likely through community level
participatory institutions that maintain and use the project created rural infrastructure.
However, the implementation monitoring and M&E study on post-project sustainability
revealed some weaknesses: (i) continuous double cropping in about 93% of the reclaimed
sodic lands, (ii) some of the main and link drains not maintained adequately,
(iii) marginal deterioration in the maintenance of bunds and irrigation channels,
(iv) failure of bore wells assessed at 1.1%, and (v) about 30% paddy area preceded by a
green manure crop. While corrective actions were taken on most of these issues, in order
to capture the impact of such sustainability issues on the project benefits, the incremental
benefits are discounted by 20% while carrying out the overall project economic analysis.

Project Impacts

The incremental financial farm benefits due to the project are estimated at
Rs. 20,755/ha/annum. Annual per hectare financial farm income for different sodic land
class types are: class C land Rs. 23,220, class B land Rs. 19,710 and class B+ land
Rs. 13,145. For the project beneficiary with an average holding size of 0.55 ha sodic
lands, farm financial income would increase by Rs. 11,415/annum. For rural UP, poverty
line income level is Rs. 4,800/annum. For average farm holdings, exclusively depending




                                            36

on own farm income, the incremental farm income of Rs. 11,415 generated by the project
would be sufficient to lift at least two members of the family above the poverty line.

The project has contributed strongly to local production of food crops. Incremental
production due to project is: paddy 531,000 t, wheat 428,000 t, oilseeds 20,000 t, pulses
15,000 t and potato 190,000 t per annum. As compared to the PAD estimates, incremental
production is higher in paddy and wheat by 28% and 10% respectively. However,
production of fruits in the project area is only 27% of the projection due to limited
expansion in the area under horticulture crops.

The PAD projected 375,000 farm families to be directly benefited by reclamation and
OFD works, and another 542,200 families outside the project area to be benefited by
reduction in the extent and intensity of annual flooding during the crop seasons due to
improved main drains 9 . The reclamation and OFD interventions directly benefited
367,620 farm families, 23% more than the corrected PAD estimate. Improved main
drains indirectly benefited 174,015 farm families, 44% more than the corrected PAD
estimate. Overall, the total number of project beneficiaries by project end, exceeded the
PAD target by 29% due to increased coverage under reclamation and main drain
improvements. The baseline study estimated that 72% of the population is below poverty
line, one-third belonging to scheduled caste; top 10% of the households sharing 43% of
the aggregate income with the bottom 10% accounting for a meager 0.5%; about 50% of
the average farm land comprise sodic soils and the proportion being the highest among
the marginal farm holders. Improved farm income for the reclaimed lands had positive
impact on reducing poverty in the resource poor sodic farm households. The project has
generated 26 million man days of additional employment opportunities due to crop area
expansion, intensification and diversification in the reclaimed sodic lands. At 300 days
per year, this is equivalent to 86,710 additional jobs in the project area (see Section 3.2
Assessment of outcomes).




9 The PAD projected 375,000 farm families to be directly benefited by reclamation and OFD works based on the
average farm holding size (FHS) of 0.4 ha sodic lands in the project area. But the actual FHS is about 0.5 ha of sodic
lands and as per the social assessment survey, equal area for the farm lies outside the sodic patches. For the main drain
beneficiaries, the PAD assumed an average FHS of 0.5 ha, benefiting 542,200 farm families. After netting out the
150,000 ha of normal lands lying outside the sodic patches for the direct beneficiaries and using the average FHS of 1
ha for normal farms, actual number of beneficiaries due to main drains improvement will come down to 121,200 farm
families. Thus, the total number of farm families to be benefited, as per the PAD target, should be corrected to 300,000
for direct beneficiaries and 121,200 for indirect beneficiaries.




                                                            37

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                     Title           Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                Specialty
Lending
Jeeva A. Perumalpillai- Senior Economist          SASRD Task Team Leader
Essex
Ashok K. Seth           Lead Agriculturist        SASRD Research, Technology
                                                       Dissemination
M. Balasubramanian      Senior Agriculturist     SASRD Land Reclamation
T.K. Balakrishnan       Financial Analyst         SASRD Financial Management
S. Satish              Social Development Officer SASSD Social Development
C.S. Nawathe            Senior Road Specialist    SASRD Roads
S. Rajagopal            Senior Water Resources    SASRD Drains
                        Engineer
E.V. Jagannathan        Senior Water Resources    SASRD Drains
                        Engineer
S. Krishnan             Senior Procurement        SARPS Procurement
                        Engineer
H. Imamura              Lawyer                    LEGSA Legal
S. Salman              Lawyer                     LEGSA Legal
W. Marke                Disbursement Officer      SARFM Disbursement
S. Vani                 Disbursement Officer      SARFM Disbursement
P. Jipp                 Forester                  SASRD Natural Resource
                                                       Management
R. Crooks               Environmental Specialist  SASEN Environment
B. Scott                Team Assistant            SASRD Administrative
T. Karmiris             Team Assistant            SASRD Administrative
V. Peters               Team Assistant            SASRD Administrative

Supervision/ICR
Paul Singh Sidhu        Senior Agricultural       SASDA Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
Sakwa Bunyasi          Lead Operations Officer    SASRD Task Team Leader
                                                       (2003-05)
Jeeva A. Perumalpillai- Lead Operations Officer   SASAR Task Team Leader
Essex                                                  (2000-03)
M. Balasubramanian      Senior Agriculturist      SASRD Task Team Leader
                                                       (1999-2000)
Ashok K. Seth           Lead Agriculturist        SASRD Research, Extension
Deepak Ahluwalia        Senior Economist          SASDA M&E



                                         38

         Names                     Title           Unit      Responsibility/
                                                               Specialty
C. Bravi               Economist                 FAOCP Economic Analysis, M&E
Dhimant Jayendraray    Senior Procurement        SARPS Procurement
Baxi                   Specialist
Madhavan Balachandran Financial Management       SARFM Financial Management
                       Specialist
Asha Bhagat            Consultant                SARFM Financial Management
Papia Bhattacharya     Senior Financial          SARFM Financial Management
                       Management Specialist
Manvinder Mamak        Senior Financial          SARFM Financial Management
                       Management Specialist
S. Rastogi            Consultant                 SARFM Financial Management
Ashok Kumar           Senior Highway Engineer    SASDA Roads
Shyam Sundar Ranjitkar Senior Irrigation Engineer SASDA Drains
A. Azad                Drainage Engineer         FAOCP Drains
C. Davey               Consultant                FAOCP Drains
Ranjan Samantaray      E T Consultant            SASDN Environment
N. Harshadeep          Environmental Specialist  SASEN Environment
R. Kanwar              Consultant                FAOCP Environment
Varalakshmi Vemuru    Senior Social Development SASDS Social Development
                       Specialist
S. Satish             Senior Social Development SASSD Social Development
                       Specialist
William Sorrenson     Chief Asia Pacific Service FAOCP ICRR
Jim Hancock           Livelihoods Specialist     FAOCP ICRR

Michael Macklin        Agriculture Specialist,   FAOCP ICRR
                       Consultant
S. Selvarajan          Economist, Consultant     FAOCP ICRR
Ben O' Brien          Agriculturist, Consultant  FAOCP ICRR




                                         39

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                                 USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)

Lending10
  FY98                                                                       243.71
  FY99                                                                        83.49
  FY00                                                                        26.23

                                    Total:                                   353.43
Supervision11/ICR
  FY98                                                                         0.32
  FY99                                                                        51.39
  FY00                                                                        62.76
  FY01                                               26                       54.82
  FY02                                               30                      162.50
  FY03                                               26                       87.92
  FY04                                               29                      115.59
  FY05                                               31                       91.29
  FY06                                               28                       76.40
  FY07                                               24                       55.12
  FY08                                               12                       33.64

                                    Total:          206                      791.75




10Staff Weeks are not available for FY 1998-00

11Staff Weeks are not available for FY 1998-00




                                                  40

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                    41

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable




                                     42

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Borrower's ICR

Introduction

At the time of nearing completion of the World Bank funded UP Sodic Lands
Reclamation I Project and the European Commission (EC) aided Alkali Land
Reclamation Project, UPBSN had reclaimed about 0.1 million (m) ha sodic lands. Based
on the success of these projects, the UP Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project (UPSLRIIP)
was launched in 1999 to reverse the process of sodification through sustainable
reclamation of sodic lands and prevention of further increase in sodicity in the selected
districts of the State. This project has contributed significantly to poverty alleviation in
these areas. The project was initiated in 10 districts (now 12 due to bifurcation of two
districts), and in 2001 six districts of EC aided project were also included. The districts
covered are Aligarh, Hathras, Azamgarh, Allahabad, Bulandshahar, Etah, Etawah,
Auraiya, Fatehpur, Hardoi, Jaunpur, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Mainpuri, Pratapgarh,
Raebareli, Sultanpur and Unnao.

Component-wise Achievements

1.      On-farm development and land reclamation

On farm development work (land levelling, installing tube wells, developing irrigation
and drainage network, etc.) was an essential prerequisite for sustainable reclamation of
sodic lands. The
project facilitated                               Achievements and impacts
the new allotment      · 3,38,428 ha mapped for selection of sodic lands
and possession of      · 189,715 ha reclaimed in 3,591 villages against the PAD target of 1,50,000
6,731 ha of Gram           ha

Panchyayat sodic       · 67% (PAD target 55%) of reclaimed land was C class which has been
                           brought under cultivation for the first time
lands to 16,926        · 77% of about 0.367 million (m) beneficiaries belong to SC/ST and
landless,     small        Backward Classes
and        marginal    · 93% beneficiaries are marginal and small farmers
farmers. It also       · Focussed emphasis on small plots, levelling, scrapping and double
demarcated      and        flushing before leaching improved efficiency of reclamation

ensured                · 31,766 shallow tube wells developed creating an additional assured
                           irrigation potential of 127,064 ha
possession        of   · Cropping intensity increased from 63 to 198%
earlier     allotted   · Paddy productivity increased from 0.9 to 3.5 tons (t)/ha and wheat
(some dating back          productivity from 0.4 to 3.0 t/ha
to 1970s) 51,929       · Annual house hold (HH) income increased from Rs. 21,600 to Rs. 32,176
ha sodic lands to      · Annual out migration decreased by 53 and 33 days for men women
109,616     farmers        respectively

with the support       · Annual incremental foodgrain production on reclaimed lands is 1.06 mt
                       · 24% beneficiaries brought above the poverty line (at 1999-2000 constant
of          District       prices)
Implementation



                                                  43

Coordination Committee (DICC) and active participation of Site Implementation
Committee (SIC) and Revenue Department.

The project was built on the experience of the pilot project. A water user group (WUG)
was formed in about 4 ha contiguous area as basic reclamation unit. The project selected
C and B class land and B+ category land was included only if it formed a part of the
contiguous area.

The project was implemented in areas where ground water quality was good. Quantity of
gypsum was determined separately for each field. Using this system, the project has been
able to reclaim additional 40,000 ha of sodic lands against the PAD target of 150,000 ha.
After 2 years of paddy and wheat, diversification was promoted as a result of which crops
like pulses, oilseeds, spices, sugarcane, vegetables, etc. are being grown on 20% of the
reclaimed area.

Participatory management: The project's success in effecting participation was based
on five fundamental principles: transparency, equity, accountability, decentralized
decision making, and human and institutional capacity building. Extensive efforts were
made with the help of partner NGOs to create management structure among farmers,
establish functional linkages, and promote participatory processes to ensure farmer
participation. It enabled the project to share the implementation responsibilities with
farmers and made them accountable for project performance. WUGs, SICs, women self
help groups (WSHGs), Core Team, Farmer Field Schools (FFSs), Mitra Kisan (MKs) and
Mahila Mitra Kisan (MMKs), with well-defined roles and responsibilities, and cross
linkages, ensured participatory planning and management of the project activities at the
village level. 48,167 WUGs were formed, with 97% of the WUGs continuing to share
tube well irrigation water. The key contributing factors include water selling being an
income source for the pumpset owners, group pressure for ensuring equity in water
distribution and dependence of pumpset viability on larger command area.

For facilitating community led micro-planning, technology dissemination, monitoring
and maintenance of community assets, 3,591 SICs were formed. The site implementation
plan (SIP) prepared at SIC level reflected ground realities and farmer priorities, and also
made them accountable for timely execution of the planned activities. The SICs collected
farmers' contribution of Rs. 6.97 m out of which Rs. 4.79 m were utilized for
maintenance of link drains. The SICs have been amalgamated with Water Management
Committee (WMC) of Gram Panchayat (GP) for post project maintenance of community
assets. In the process of amalgamation, SIC funds and community assets (link drains and
tube well borings) have been handed over to WMC, and MK and MMK have been
nominated as co-opted members in WMC for sensitizing GP for post project maintenance
of link drains and borings.

Gender mainstreaming: For addressing women's needs and empowerment, the project
ensured women as co-title holders of all the newly allotted lands and established
inclusive institutions (SIC and WSHGs) to make explicit the role of women in
reclamation activities. Mobilization of 7,193 WSHGs not only supported 84,526 farm



                                            44

households with supplementary savings of Rs. 85.77 m but also empowered women by
enhancing their role in decision making and provided them opportunities for income
generation. 6,743 WSHGs were linked with banks for cash credit limit and loans of Rs.
17.7 m were disbursed. In addition, these groups inter-loaned Rs 263.7 m from their
savings, 68% of which was used for financing agriculture and other economic activities.
Promotion of MMKs facilitated technology interface between project and women farmers
and enabled gender sensitive environment in the project villages.

2.     Rehabilitation and maintenance of main drains

Proper drainage is essential for the sustainability of land reclamation. The rehabilitation
and maintenance of drains was undertaken by UP Irrigation Department (UPID) using
appropriate design parameters. 7,620 km main drains were rehabilitated, which constitute
about 36.4% of the drain network in the project districts. 3,070 cross drainage pucca
structures were also constructed on these drains as per site requirements. In addition,
6,522 km of UPSLRIP and 7,565 km of UPSLRIIP drains have been maintained. These
main drains were connected with the link and field drains to ensure smooth flow of
drainage waters. This resulted in efficient removal saline effluents from the reclaimed
areas and also drained excess rain water from the other cultivated areas in these districts.
The quality of drainage works was independently monitored by Consulting Engineering
Services.

For the maintenance of main drains a funding mechanism has been developed and
operationalized which includes 90% budgetary support by GOUP through UPID, and
10% contribution by the farmers. For meeting the 90% budgetary support, a separate line
item in UPID has been created since FY 2005-06 and an amount of Rs. 17.9 m per year
has been provided specifically for the maintenance of sodic drains. This arrangement
would continue in the post project period. For meeting the 10% farmers' contribution,
UPBSN has established a corpus fund "UP Bhumi Sudhar Anurakshan Nidhi
Niyamawali 2006" out of the small levies collected from farmers on inputs provided to
them under the project. An amount of Rs. 125.98 m was deposited in this corpus @
8.35% interest/annum (now raised to 10.5% per annum). UPID has prepared the
maintenance plan for the UPSLRI and IIP drains for the next five years. With this
provision, both the UPSLRI and IIP drains will be maintained.

3.     Technology dissemination

State, district, block and village level institutions have been developed which promoted
effective inter-departmental coordination for implementation and monitoring of the
project activities and dissemination of appropriate technologies. An Inter-Departmental
Working Group under the Chairmanship of Agriculture Production Commissioner has
been promoting inter-departmental coordination and policy harmonization at the state
level in addition to reviewing implementation progress of technology dissemination
programs.      Broad-based DICC has been overseeing the implementation of land
reclamation and technology dissemination activities in the project districts. To promote
decentralized, farmer-focused technology dissemination system, Agricultural Technology



                                              45

Management Agencies (ATMAs) were setup in 8 project districts. In addition, 32
ATMAs were set up under the Diversified Agriculture Support Project.

Farmer field schools: 238 Farmer Field Schools (FFSs) covering all the project blocks
and 2823 villages were established as community-based, demand-driven institutes for
promoting farmer-to-farmer technology dissemination. The FFSs comprised of
progressive farmers of 8-10 sodic villages located in a radius of 5 km. A total of 2,533
master trainers on different subjects (agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, credit,
organic farming, soil testing, boring and pumpset maintenance, marketing, health, etc)
were developed to provide training/support to the member farmers. These FFSs were
linked with different public and private institutions like State Agricultural Universities
(SAUs), Krishi Vigyan Kendras, Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry for
technical backstopping. Some members of FFSs were nominated in block level Farmer
Advisory Committees of ATMAs for raising farmer's voices in the district agriculture
plans. Libraries were established in all FFSs and computers were provided to establish e-
chaupals in 15 FFSs. The FFSs also helped in addressing issues critical to project
sustainability like timely availability of agricultural inputs, credit, technical know-how
and community awareness on drainage maintenance. 205 agriculture service centres
managed by FFSs, facilitated timely availability of quality agriculture inputs. To sustain
these FFS, business plans were prepared and implemented to ensure regular source of
income. The FFSs enhanced the participation of farming communities in agriculture
development, appropriate land use and knowledge exchange. 159 FFSs were registered as
societies to implement rural development programs.

Farmer training programs, crop demonstrations, adaptive trials, wall writings, print and
electronic media were successfully
used     for    dissemination    of                      Use of bio-fertilizers

appropriate technologies to the         · Green manure and farm yard manure on 48,915 and
farmers. This helped in promoting          41,048 ha respectively
use of certified seed, timely           · NADEP compost on 1,350 ha by 1900 farmers
planting of crops, integrated pest      · Vermicompost on 950 ha by 2,225 farmers
management, balanced fertilizer         · Azotobactor on 2,136 ha by 6186 farmers
use and irrigation of crops at          · Rhizobium on 1,670 ha by 3394 farmers
critical         stages.        The     · Phosphatica on 2,264 ha by 4086 farmers

recommendations emanating from the adaptive research component on various topics like
suitable medicinal crops, spice crops, sesbania and use of pressmud were disseminated to
the farmers through the extension units like ATMAs/DICCs/FFSs and the state extension
system. The extension efforts promoted crop diversification after 2-3 cycles of rice-wheat
rotation following land reclamation.

4.      Upgrading farm to market roads

Upgrading of farm-to-market roads was included in the project to connect the isolated
sodic villages with the main road network to enable the farmers to take their agricultural
produce to the nearby markets. Selection of these roads was done as per the ranking
formula agreed with the World Bank. U.P. Public Works Department (PWD) and U.P.



                                            46

Rajkiya Nirman Nigam were the implementing agencies. The roads were constructed as
per GOI Ministry of Surface Transport specifications. The quality of road works was
independently monitored by Consulting Engineering Services. A total of 1,112 km roads,
including 187 km under maintenance pilot project, were upgraded against the PAD target
of 700 km. The PWD has taken the responsibility of maintaining these roads in post
project period from their regular budget as per state government norms. The PWD has
prepared a maintenance plan for these roads for the next seven years.

5.      Human resource development and institutional capacity building of support
services

Training programs:         The human resource development and institutional capacity
building of support services emphasised on staff training and institutional strengthening
of panchayats, NGOs and other line agencies, viz. Departments of Agriculture (DOA),
Public Works, Irrigation, Panchayti Raj, Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC) and
UP Council of Agricultural Research involved in project implementation. A total of 690
trainings for 11,630 UPBSN staff, 1,066 trainings for 13,220 line department staff and
447 trainings for 6,461 NGO workers were organized. Additionally 12,647 multi-purpose
workers of the GP and 104 Kisan Sahayaks of DOA were trained for providing extension
support and technical back-up to farming community and FFS. A total of 106,345 core
team members and MKs/MMKs were trained to serve as extension agents. Self help
groups (SHGs) promoted in the project were also strengthened through various training
programs, workshops and exposure visits. Need based Micro Enterprise Development
(MED) trainings were provided to 1,675 members of the SHGs. These capacity building
initiatives resulted in initiation of micro enterprises and other economic activities.

Strengthening of Panchayats: 1,271 Panchayat Bhawans (PBs) were constructed to
provide village communities, farmer groups, SICs and FFSs a platform for organizing
trainings, setting up libraries, IT kiosks, holding meetings, and for other social activities.
1,342 libraries were established and 810 additional modules were constructed in the
already existing PBs. These PBs are serving as a secretariat for village level local
institutions and have also become a platform/hub for carrying out various developmental
activities in the villages by the community-based organizations. The Government of UP
has issued guidelines for strengthening and maintenance of PBs and library-cum-
information centers.

Marketing: Initiatives for strengthening marketing of agricultural produce include setting
up of 360 Sodic Haats (rural market hubs), out of which 46 were equipped with
infrastructural facilities.     206 project villages were linked with Mandi Samitis.
Construction of 1,197 zero energy cool chambers enhanced shelf life of perishable
produce. Opportunities for marketing of horticultural produces were tapped through
development of 19 Primary Horticultural Cooperative Societies. 338 project villages were
linked with 125 milk routes with daily turnover of 31,754 litres. One progressive farmer
in each FFS was trained as Marketing Animator to promote backward and forward
market linkages. WSHGs were trained in various income-generating activities, resulting
in setting up of 51,572 micro enterprises. 262 SHG members were promoted as Shakti



                                               47

Dealers under Hindustan Lever Ltd. rural development initiatives.          Under contract
farming, Chikori was produced on 135 ha through Nutricia; Cargill purchased 342 t
wheat; and 5,892 farmers produced spinach seed on 819 ha land and gained better
returns. Some FFSs played a key role in collective bargaining on behalf of farmers.

Micro-Credit Action Research (MCAR): MCAR was launched as a pilot in two districts,
and the NGO and the bank worked together for promotion and strengthening of SHGs,
aiming people's empowerment and rural livelihood generation, sustainable outreach and
access to micro credit for consumption, production and investment purposes. The credit
coverage reached 91% and sustainable linkages of SHGs with banks helped rural poor in
accessing institutional credit. Application of learnings of MCAR helped in strengthening
of SHGs and promotion of clusters. A total of 165 clusters, networking 1,716 SHGs were
developed to support groups in auditing, record-keeping, conflict resolution and initiation
of marketable MEDs. To sustain the SHGs, endeavours were made to link them with
various mainstream central and state sponsored programs related to literacy, health care,
sanitation, etc. As such, 162 WSHGs started implementing mid-day meal scheme of
Government of India. Other key achievements include the initiative taken up by 5
"people managed federations" in Hathras to pay the service charges to 7 NGO staff since
August 2005 for the services provided by them after the withdrawal of project support.

6.      Adaptive Research

The project helped in developing and operationlizing a competitive agricultural research
program (CARP) to bring in pluralism in the research system. 30 CARP projects were
successfully completed by SAUs (10), Indian Council of Agriculture Research (13),
NGOs (2), RSAC (1) and general universities (4). To sustain the CARP model, a corpus
of Rs. 80 m has been created by UPCAR as Shodh Nidhi (Research Fund). The
promising technologies identified through 30 research projects have been taken up for
further testing and/or mainstreamed through the extension system of the state.
Standardization of specifications for pressmud played a key role in promoting the use of
this cheap by-product of sugar mills in the reclamation of 8,619 ha sodic lands against the
target of 2,500 ha. The research advisory committee provided effective oversight to the
CARP. For carrying out location-specific land reclamation research in UP, Central Soil
Salinity Research Institute Shivri was established and implemented relevant training
programmes. An international conference on "Sustainable Management of Sodic Lands"
was organized in 2005 which provided an opportunity to develop international linkages
and showcase the project accomplishments.

7.      Project management

The project has been implemented through a well crafted Activity Schedules on the basis
of which Annual Action Plans were prepared using a Computerized Project Management
system which defined each project activity, the required critical path for completion, and
displayed the proposed physical and expenditure targets. All the 23 Project Management
Units were linked to the UPBSN headquarters (HQ). All the units at HQ were connected
through LAN. This ensured a smooth flow of information and helped in effective internal



                                            48

monitoring. The website www.upbsn.org with MIS and GIS mapping was developed and
regularly updated.

Procurement schedules for inputs were strictly adhered, and in the later years rake-wise,
village-wise schedules for gypsum were developed resulting in significant savings, and
ensuring timely
supply of inputs                             Monitoring and evaluation
at the project
sites.               · WAPCOS­TAHL and Agricultural Finance Corporation conducted
                        concurrent monitoring, and also assessed the project impacts

For     assessing    · Every project village was monitored at least once
                     · Revisit was carried out in the 6th year for the first six cohorts
socio-economic       · Development indicators and physical performance indicators were developed
and                     and regularly monitored
environmental        · Impact assessment was carried out after every crop season
impacts,     and     · Findings of M&E consultants were regularly discussed in monthly project
monitoring    the       management meetings and compliance with all issues ensured

project progress,    · Environmental monitoring was done by Remote Sensing Application Centre

third       party    · Impact of reclamation on bio-diversity was assessed by National Botanical
                        Research Institute
independent          · Quality of road and drainage works was monitored by Consulting
external    M&E         Engineering Services
agencies    were
hired.

Environmental management: The quality of ground water in the reclaimed areas was
similar to the unreclaimed areas indicating that the leaching of salts has not produced any
adverse effect on the quality of ground water. Similarly the quality of surface waters in
the link drains, and at the outfall points where these drains join the main drains was
within the permissible limits for irrigation quality standards. Reclamation improved soil
quality in the surface (0-15 cm) soils with significant reduction in pH and electrical
conductivity. The floral diversity increased from 12 to 81 species, and the faunal
diversity from 52 to 250 species as a result of reclamation. Microbial biomass increased
from 52 to 418 milligram/gram soil after 10 years of reclamation.

Arrangements for Future Operation of the Project

Sustainability strategy: A well crafted sustainability strategy was adopted. In the four
years process of reclamation, exit policy exercises were conducted by the farmers
themselves with the help of PRA techniques and developing issues matrix and
sustainability index for each village. The critical issues identified during exit policy
exercises were addressed through follow-up exercises. A "Convergence Matrix" was
developed to sustain project impacts and maintain continuity of activities through
convergence with various line departments and private sector. This matrix helped in
identifying the weak areas and fostering linkages with public and private sector agencies.
The critical risks identified in the PAD like "timely rehabilitation of main drains,
maintenance of drains and roads" and other issues identified during exit policy exercises
have been addressed and all efforts have been made to ensure the continuity of activities



                                               49

during the post project period and for sustaining the project impacts. GOUP has prepared
a proposal for the
follow on project                                  Steps for sustainability
                      ·   Only those sodic lands were selected for reclamation where ground water
which    is  being        was 2 meter below ground surface to avoid reversion of sodicity
processed by GOI.     ·   DOA has taken over the responsibility of ensuring continuous cropping
                          and conducting crop demonstrations for dissemination of latest practices
Borrower's                and technologies on the reclaimed areas.

Performance           ·   Budgetary provision made for maintenance of sodic drains and a corpus
                          fund "Anurakshan Nidhi" established for meeting 10% farmer contribution
                      ·   FFS set up at the block level to ensure institutional arrangements for
UPBSN's                   farmer-to-farmer technology dissemination
performance      is   ·   SIC merged into Water Management Committee of Gram Panchayat
rated as Highly           providing it a constitutional status and ensuring link drain maintenance

Satisfactory,         ·   PWD will maintain the upgraded roads from their regular maintenance
                          budget and maintenance plan is in place
although frequent     ·   Panchayat Bhawans and Sodic Haats will be maintained by Panchayati Raj
change of project         Department
management was        ·   SHGs linked with banks for institutional credit
an    issue.   The
Government of UP (GOUP) allowed UPBSN substantial flexibility and authority for
implementing project activities. It took steps to adapt the project design to emerging
challenges. For example, when the original funding mechanism for main drain
maintenance did not work well and the issue of sustainability of institutions set up under
the project came up in the OED review of the pilot project, UPBSN and GOUP were
quick to develop and operationalize sustainable institutional arrangements for addressing
these weaknesses. The implementing agencies also showed enormous commitment in
achieving project outputs and goals. UPBSN staff played a critical role in the reclamation
of sodic lands belonging to thousands of poor farmers by working with them and
successfully negotiating the complex process of ensuring clear land titles. NGOs were
effectively used to motivate beneficiaries to participate in the design, implementation and
monitoring of the program. UPBSN designed innovative tools like "Convergence Matrix",
"Exit policy" and "FFS Calendar" which proved beneficial in achieving the larger
objective of sustainability. With the effective management and judicious uses of inputs,
UPBSN was able to reclaim additional about 40,000 ha sodic lands.

Bank's Performance

The Bank performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory. There was continuity of the Task
Team, although the Task Leadership changed three times. Issues critical for improving
implementation, technology transfer and sustainability were regularly raised; and
workable solutions were provided to address the identified weaknesses. Despite the
technical nature of the project, social, participatory, environmental and poverty issues
were emphasised by the Bank team. Mission field visits and Aide Memoires greatly
helped in providing guidance and directions to the implementing agencies for achieving
project objectives and outputs. The Bank also highlighted the critical issues in meetings
with the Chief Secretary, Agriculture Production Commissioner and Principal Secretary
Agriculture, GOUP; as well as in the Annual Portfolio Reviews with Department of
Economic Affairs, GOI, and GOUP.



                                                50

Project Constraints and Areas of Concern

Although the project achieved or exceeded the original targets, there were a few
constraints. The major area of concern for the Bank missions was the frequent change of
Project Manger. Another constraint was lack of continuity of middle level and technical
staff during the later years of the project since as per GOUP rules staff from the line
departments had to be repatriated back after completing five year deputation term. There
was no concrete plan to address the gaps identified during the Exit Policy exercises in
the project design, although during the later stages these were addressed, and
convergence strategy was formulated to hand over the ongoing activities to the relevant
departments. Although formation of ATMAs was planned for technology dissemination,
these could not take off during the earlier years and became functional in the later years.
The extension system at Block level was strengthened through Farmer Field Schools.
Another concern since the beginning of the project was the main drain maintenance after
the project closure since effective drainage system is very critical for sustainable
reclamation. Till 5th year of the project there were constraints in operationalizing the
budgetary mechanism as proposed in the PAD, whereby Irrigation Department was to
provide 25%, Rural Development Department 65% and 10% was the beneficiary share.
Persistent efforts by the Bank and rigorous follow-up by the UPBSN resulted in
insitutionalizing an alternative arrangement described under the Drains Component.

Lessons Learnt

    · Sodic areas with ground water within 2 meter from the surface or within 500
        meter on the sides of canals should not be taken up for reclamation as the chances
        of reversion of sodicity are high.
    · Selection of area should be done jointly by the technical staff and farmer teams.
        Ground truthing by involving farmers facilitates right selection of sodic lands.
    · Awareness creation and social capital building are essential pre-requisites for
        effective land reclamation.
    · "Convergence Action Plan Matrix" should be made an integral part of training
        modules from the beginning of the reclamation process.
    · Horticulture should be promoted only in B+ category land and that, too, on the
        fields of "Willing farmer" only.
    · Focussed attention should be given to marketing of agricultural produce.


Borrower's Comments on Draft ICRR

We have gone through the entire report and found that it has captured all the aspects of
the project in a very precise manner and the report makes mention of the contents,
implementation and outcomes very concisely and yet thoroughly.




                                            51

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NGO Comments on Draft ICRR

1. Sarvodaya Ashram, Hardoi

Our association with the Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project is more than a
decade old and we worked in nine districts. The project was highly successful and helped
in providing livelihood and food security to the poor communities. The infrastructure
built under the project will continue to be used by the communities in future. The project
was also a good model of government and NGO partnership. The project design provided
ample scope for innovation and learning by doing. The key success of the project was its
emphasis on participatory approaches. During the project period various types of human
resources like Mitra Kisan, Mahila Mitra Kisan, self help group leaders, pump-set and
boring mechanics, and farmer leaders were developed which will remain as an asset to
the sodic villages. The women self help groups were not only linked with alternative
sources of credit but also played an important role in the reclamation process. Through
the project a cadre of qualified and skilled staff was developed, and gained valuable
implementation experience in building social capital and technical aspects which will be
very useful to our organization in future projects. The lessons learnt from the project are:

   · Attention should be given to the marketing activities from the beginning of the
       project
   · Selection of the reclamation area should be done in consultation with the
       community
   · Convergence with different organizations should be promoted
   · Successful MCAR model should be replicated in other districts

2. Krishi Evam Shaikshik Prabandha Santhan, Partapgarh

We thoroughly studied the above report and found it excellent.




                                            52

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Implementation Completion and Results Report and Final Implementation Support
    Mission Aide Memoire, November 13, 2007
2. Project Appraisal Document, India: Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project,
    World Bank Report No. 18506-IN, November 3, 1998
3. Development Credit Agreement, Project Agreement and Loan Agreement, World
    Bank
4. Development Credit Agreement Amendments, World Bank dated December, 2004
    and January, 2007
5. Supervision/Implementation Support Mission Reports (17 in total from 1999 to 2007)
6. Mid-Term Review Report (2002)
7. Project Completion Reports Volume I ­ XI covering overview, seven project
    components, participatory management and compliances with agreed actions and
    covenants. UPBSN, Lucknow, September 2007
8. Project Completion Presentations Volume I ­ X covering overview, components I to
    VI, environmental monitoring, biodiversity, participatory management, M&E and
    impact assessment. UPBSN, Lucknow, September 2007
9. Project Performance Assessment Report ­ Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation
    Project (Credit 2510). Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank, Report No.
    29124, June 9, 2004
10. Economic, Social and Environmental Impact Assessment of Rehabilitation of Drains
    Under UPSLRP-II, Final Report, Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow,
    September 2007
11. Quality Checking of Road and Drain Works, Consulting Engineering Services (CES)
12. Study on Assessment of Social and Economic Impact of Farm-to-Market-Roads
    under UPSLRP-II, Final Report, Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, October
    2007
13. Impact and Effectiveness of Training and Capacity Building Undertaken Under the
    Project, Giri Institute of Development Studies, July 2007
14. Assessing Effectiveness of Farmers Field Schools in Addressing Key Issues Critical
    to the Sustainability of UPSLRP-II, Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow,
    August 31, 2007
15. Micro Credit Action Research Project ­ Final Report. Bankers Institute of Rural
    Development (BIRD), Lucknow, August 2005
16. Assessment of Output, Outcome and Economic Impact of Marketing Support
    Provided Under the Project. UP Industrial Consultants Ltd. Kanpur, September 2007
17. Market Study on Aonla, WIZMIN Consultants, Kanpur, March, 2001
18. Evaluation of Participatory Management Processes. STEM (Centre for Symbiosis of
    Technology, Environment and Management), Bangalore, 2001
19. Assessing the Impact of the Sodic Lands Reclamation Project over the Years through
    Sustainability-Index in Villages under Sodic -I & Ist year of Sodic-II. WIZMIN
    Management Consultants, Kanpur
20. Assessment of Extent to Which Gram Panchayat Planning Programme Address the
    Needs of the Poorest and Women as well as the Usage of Panchayat Bhavans
    Constructed Under UPSLR-II P.



                                            53

21. Assessment of Changes in Household Income and Expenditure in UPSLRP and
    UPSLR II P, Including the Impact of Convergence of Activities with Line
    Departments, K.Rastogi & Associates, Consultants, Lucknow
22. Monitoring & Evaluation Project End Report, WAPCOS Limited, India in
   Association with TAHAL Consulting Engineers, Israel, June 2007
23. Monitoring and Evaluation of World Bank Funded U.P. Sodic Land Reclamation-II
    Project in Extended Districts of Uttar Pradesh, Agriculture & Socio-Economic
    Impact Assessment, Agricultural Finance Corporation Ltd., Lucknow, 2007
24. Economic and Financial Analysis Note on Farm Income Analysis.
25. UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project II ICR Mapping and Environmental Monitoring
    Component, RSAC, Lucknow
26. A Cumulative Report on Project Durability Study ­ Monitoring of Sodic Land
    Reclamation at Plot Level in Selected Villages in Project Areas Using Satellite Data,
    RSAC, Lucknow, 2007
27. Evaluation of Floral and Faunal Diversity and Soil Microbial Biomass in Reclaimed
    Sodic Land After 10 Years of Reclamation, National Botanical Research Institute,
    Lucknow, 2007
28. Report on Selected Wetlands in Etawah and Mainpuri Districts of Uttar Pradesh,
    RSAC, Lucknow
29. Evaluation of Biodiversity in Mainpuri and Etawah Wetlands of UP, National
    Botanical Research Institute, Lucknow, 2003
30. Corporate Plan for Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudha Nigam (UPBSN, Lucknow. Indian
    Institute of Management. Revised final report
31. Uttar Pradesh Land Reclamation Project [III] ­ Concept Paper. UPBSN, November
    2006
32. Economic Survey of India, Government of India, 1998-99
33. Economic Survey of India, Government of India, 2006-07
34. Uttar Pradesh: Annual Production 1999/00 to 2004/05 for Kharif and Rabi.
    Agricultural Statistics Division, GOUP, September 2006




                                            54

             32°                                78°                                                     80°                                       82°                                           84°            32°
                                                                                                                                                                         INDIA
                          H I M A C H A L                                                                                                         UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS
                            P R A D E S H                                                                                                                  RECLAMATION II PROJECT
                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                       H                                                               PROJECT DISTRICTS
                                                                                                             I  N                                                      EXECUTING AGENCY HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                       SODIC LANDS

                                                                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                       STATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                            U T T A R A N C H A L                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

             30°                                                                                                                                                                                               30°
                      SAHARANPUR
             A

              ANY
                      MUZAFFARNAGAR
                                                       BIJNORE

                 HAR
                      BAGPAT       MEERUT

                                                    JYOTIBA
                               GHAZIABAD              PULE                      RAMPUR
                                                    NAGAR
           DELHI        GOUTAM
                           BUDH
                          NAGAR                                      MORADABAD                      PILIBHIT

                                                                                      BAREILLY                                                 N
                               BULANDSHAHR
           HARYANA                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                BADAUN                                           LAKIMPUR
                                                                                                                   KHERI                                 P   A
             28°                        ALIGARH                                                                                                                    L                                           28°



                                                                                             SHAHJAHANPUR

                          MATHURA         HATHRAS                    ETAH                                                                       SHRAWASTI


                                                                                         FARRUKH-                    SITAPUR          BAHRAICH          BALRAMPUR

                                                                                          ABAD
                                                                                                     HARDOI                                                    SIDDARTHNAGAR
                                                      FIROZABAD               MAINPURI                                                                                            MAHARAJ

                                            AGRA                                                                                                   GONDA                                GANJ
                                                                                            KANNOUJ
                                                                                                                                  BARA BANKI                                                    KUSHI
                                                                              ETAWAH                                          Lucknow                       BASTI                              NAGAR
                                                                                                                                                                       SANT
                    RAJASTHAN                                                           AURIAYA                         LUCKNOW                                        KABIR CORAKHPUR

                                                                                                 KANPUR         UNNAO                              FAIZABAD           NAGAR

                                                                                                  DEHAT
                                                                                                 (RURAL)                                                     AMBEDKER                        DEORIA
                                                                                                                                                               NAGAR
                                                                                                           KANPUR                               SULTANPUR
                                                                                                            NAGAR              RAIBARELI
                                                                                                           (URBAN)
                                                                                       JALAUN
             26°                                                                                                                                                    AZAMGARH              MAU                  26°
                                  M A D H Y A                                                                       FATEHPUR              PRATAPGARH                                                   BALLIA
                                  P R A D E S H                                                 HAMIRPUR                                                   JAUNPUR

                                                                               JHANSI                                                                                                   GHAZIPUR

                                                                                                                                   KAUSHAMBI
                                                                                                                 BANDA
                                                                                             MAHOBA                                                                  VARANASI
                                                                                                                            SHAHUJI          ALLAHABAD      BADHOI

                                                                                                                           MAHARAJ
                                                                                                                             NAGAR

                                                                                                                                                               MIRZAPUR        CHANDOULI            B I H A R


                                                       LALITPUR



                                                                                                                                                                      SONBHADRA
                                                                                                         M A D H Y A  P R A D E S H


             24°                                                                                                                                                                                               24°




                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.              0      25   50  75    100 KILOMETERS
                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
JANURA               judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or         0         25     50         75      100 MILES
                     acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                IBRD


      Y2008                                                                                                                                                                                                            29956R

                                        78°                                                           80°                                            82°                                             84°

