CfRCULAT)NG COPY
L            COPY p y               TO BE REURNED TO REPORTS DEgK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1534-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 27, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =         Naira (N) 0.66
Nl.00                   US$1.52
Ni million              US915.2 million
Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent
of the U.S. dollar. Twice weekly, the Central Bank
sets buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar
and h sterling. The Naira has appreciated steadily
vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar, and by July 1, 1974 the
average quotation was Ni = US$1.622 or 6.7 percent
above the previous central rate of Ni - US$1.52.
The latter has been used for currency conversions
throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nigeria for the equivalent of US$21.0 million to help finance livestock
development in northern and western Nigeria. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including a grace period of six years, with interest at 8 percent
per annum.  $13.1 million of the loan would be passed on to the Nigerian Agri-
cultural Bank Limited (NAB) and would be used for on-lending to government-
owned ranching companies, private ranchers and smallholders. Sub-loans from
NAB to ranching companies and private ranchers would be for 13 to 15 years,
including three to five years of grace, while sub-loans to smallholder fatteners
would be for 12 months. Interest rates on sub-loans would normally range
between 5 percent and 9-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Nigeria"
(416a-UNI) dated August 5, 1974 was distributed to the Executive Directors.
The country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        The most striking feature of Nigeria's economic performance since
1970 is the remarkably rapid recovery from the dislocations and disruptions
caused by the civil war. GDP rose by nearly 50 percent in the two years
immediately following the war. This exceptionally high growth obviously
included a large element of "catching-up" as the economy responded to the pent-
up demands of the civil war period and as investment and production which had
been postponed during the hostilities were rapidly realized. As this phase
came to a close, a decline in the rate of growth to more normal levels was
to be expected. Moreover, during 1972 and 1973, agricultural production was
adversely affected by drought in the Northern States, and the output of some
manufacturing industries (e.g., textiles and footwear) fell as a result of
intensified competition from imports, following the policy of liberalization
introduced in early 1972. As a result, GDP at factor cost is estimated to have
risen by about 8 percent in 1972/73. Growth in 1973/74 may be in the range of
6-7 percent. The country's GDP during 1970/71 through 1972/73 was about 45
percent higher than in the three years immediately preceding the war. The
implied growth rate during the period 1964-66 to 1970-72 (6.3 percent a year)
compares favorably with the 6 percent attained during the fifties and early
sixties.



4.        This rapid economic recovery resulted mainly from expansion of
petroleum mining. Crude oil production rose from around 630,000 barrels per
day (bbls/day) in early 1970 to 1.8 million bbls/day in early 1972 and 2.0
million bbls/day by mid-1973. Government services too increased quickly on
the basis of considerable growth of revenues from the oil sector. On the
average, manufactures also grew faster than total output. However, petro-
leum production is an enclave activity, and manufacturing and modern services
afford employment for a small share of the labor force. Nigeria essentially
remains an agricultural economy in spite of a substantial shift in the com-
position of output since the period immediately before the civil war. Agri-
culture accounted for 46 percent of domestic product in 1971/72 (i.e., prior
to the increase in oil prices) and employed some 70 percent of the labor force.
Consequently, Nigeria's per capita income (about $130 in 1972) largely reflects
the low productivity of its traditional agriculture.
5.        The considerable growth of domestic product and income in receat
years was accompanied by similar increases in all major components of aggre-
gate expenditure. In real terms, exports in the period 1971/72 through 1973/74
averaged about twice the pre-war levels, imports increased by almost 90 per-
cent, investment by over 65 percent, and consumption expenditures by about
50 percent. Per capita real consumption and the rate of investment are well
above pre-war levels. Private sector investments have been high in both oil
and non-oil activities, especially manufacturing among the latter. Public
investment (valued at 1970/71 prices) rose from N148 million in 1970/71 to
N340 million in 1972/73 and was budgetted at N600 million in 1973/74. Nevter-
theless, implementation of the public investment program contained in the
Second Development Plan is behind schedule, due partly to a delay of ten
months in the issuance of the Plan and, more significantly, to inadequate
executive capacity for project preparation and implementation0 Recognizing
these problems, the Governmeun. decided to postpone the starL of the next Plg.
'by a year. The Third Development Plan is now scheduled to start early in 1975,
and will cover the five-year period 1975-80. Provisional guidelines for che
Third Plan, issued in July 1973, are currently being reviewed in the light of
the new situation brought about by the recent sharp rise in oil revenues.
General Gowan's Independence Day message of October 1, 1974, indicates that
the Government is now contemplating a much bigger program of investment than
outlined in the July 1973 Guidelines.
6.        Nigeria's balance of payments and fiscal position have also shown
dramatic improvement essentially because of the rapid growth of petroleum
exports.  Total exports have risen from N885 million in 1970 to N2,227 million
in 1973, with oil accounting for practically all the increase. Imports have
also grown (from N756 million in 1970 to N1,234 million in 1973), but more
slowly than exports. This has enabled the Government to reduce short-term
external debt and to progressively relax the restrictions on import payments
and repatriation of dividends. The few remaining licensing and payment
controls in respect of goods and factor services have been removed in the
last budget. Foreign exchange reserves have increased dramatically following
the recent increases in oil price, and preliminary figures as of early October
1974 indicate that external reserves exceed $4 billion, equivalent to about
15 months' imports.



-3-
7.         The increase in oil revenues from N70 million in 1969/70 to N730
million in 1972/73 was also the major factor in transforming the Government's
fiscal position. In 1969/70, the Federal and State budgets taken together
showed an overall deficit of N349 million; in 1971/72, they showed an overall
surplus of N268 million. Because of a sharp increase in expenditures, 1972/73
recorded a small overall deficit. But the recent rise in oil prices is likely
to result in an unprecedented overall surplus during 1973/74 and the current
year despite big increases in budgetted expenditures. This growing fiscal
strength, however, has been largely confined, so far, to the Federal Govern-
ment. In general, the states have been barely able to balance their revenue
leaving little resources to finance capital expenditures. The Federal Govern-
ment has made large grants and low interest loans to alleviate the situation.
The picture is likely to change dramatically 2s a result of the new revenue-
sharing arrangement announced by General Gowan in his Independence Day address.
Under the new arrangement, the states as a group are expected to have suffi-
cient resources to meet all their current expenditures and about two-thirds
of the projected capital expenditures.
8.         The improved budgetary situation, liberalization of imports and
recovery of production in the eastern states have, together, helped abate
inflationary pressures. The Lagos Consumer Price Index rose by less than 3
percent in 1972 and a little over 4 percent in 1973, compared to an average
of 13 percent or more per annum between 1968 and 1971.
9.         Other major developments in the last two years include a far-
reaching reform of the Marketing Board System, a substantial increase in
producer prices for agricultural products, the acquisition of a 55 percent
equity participation in virtually all foreign operations in the oil sector,
and the establishment of the Bank for Commerce and Industry to assist in-
digenous entrepreneurs. A population census, conducted in November-December
1973, indicates Nigera's population to be around 80 million. These results
are provisional and subject to review by a Committee of Experts. The final
population figures are not expected before the end of the current year. At
the political level, the most noteworthy event is the announcement of the
Federal Military Government's decision to postpone the return to civilian
rule, originally set for 1976.
Medium and Long-Term Prospects
10.        Even before the recent rise in oil prices, as pointed out in the
Basic Economic Report (Report No. AW-35a), it was apparent that the resources
generated by oil would permit Nigeria to undertake a bold program of public
development expenditures and plan for a sustained, rapid growth during the
next decade. The Guidelines for the Third Plan issued in July 1973 visualized
total public investment at some 80 percent higher than in the Second Plan
with emphasis on agriculture and rural development and on widening and deepen-
ing the industrial structure. With the prospect of vastly larger oil revenues,
the Government has decided to further increase the scale of projected invest-
ments. The Head of State recently announced that the public sector investment
program in the Third Plan would be about N20 billion, out of an estimated



- 4 -
total investment of N30 billion. This is expected to generate a 9 percent
annual increase in incomes. Apart from larger outlays in agriculture, roads,
education, health and infrastructure, massive investments in oil-related
industries like LNG, fertilizers and refineries are visualized. The need and
scope for the projected investments is beyond doubt.   The finance and foreigL
exchange necessary to sustain them are also available. The Government is aware
that shortage of executive capacity poses a serious problem, and efforts are
being made to overcome this constraint. Clearly the fulfillment of the Third
Plan targets depends critically on the success in building up the necessary
capacity to prepare, implement and manage projects.
11.        The Bank's Economic Mission, reviewing Nigeria's medium and long-
term growth prospects in the light of the new oil prices, estimated that,
with oil prices remaining constant in real terms, oil output rising moderately
and public expenditures growing at the rate of 13 percent a year (in real
terms), the economy has the potential to sustain an average annual growth of
over 9 percent through the mid-eighties, provided the investment program is
implemented efficiently. The potential growth would be somewhat lower (8.3
percent a year) if oil prices in real terms were to decline moderately, oil
output were kept constant and public expenditures grew by only 10-11 percent
a year. Even with such high rates of growth, Nigeria in the mid-eighties
would still be a relatively poor country with per capita real income of
around $500.
12.        Under the above assumptions, Nigeria is expected to remain in over-
all balance of payments surplus during the remainder of the 1970s.    Accumu-
lated reserves at the end of the Third Plan (1980/81) may lie in the vicinityi
of 18 months' import value, the value of imports having risen by that tiXe
to around $13 billion in terms of current prices. However, the overall balm-ce
of payments is likely to be fir deficit by the early eighties, and the deficit
could rise rapidly.  The range of possible outcomes during the eighties is
very wide and will be very sensitive to the behavior of oi_ prices, output
and public expenditures.  With relatively low growth of public expenditure,
constant real oil prices and rising oil output, total reserves in 1985/86
could be equivalent to less than 10 months' imports.   But, with higher growth
of government expenditures, lower oil prices and constant oil production,
Nigeria could well have exhausted all its reserves by that time.
External Assistance
13.        Nigeria's need for external assistance to help accelerate invest-
ment in the more intractable areas such as agriculture and rural development
and to increase executive and maniagerial capacity in the infrastructure
sectors is the more urgent as the country's resources increase. The Federal
Government's attitude towards foreign private capital is that it should com-
plement, not compete with domestic capital. This applies to official exter-
nal assistance as well. Priority is, therefore, being given to multilateral
and bilateral projects and programs which act as catalysts to investment
efforts in the high priority areas and increase indigenous capability to
control, manage and promote the growth of the economy efficiently in the
future. Against this background the Federal government and the Bank agree



-5-
that, at least over the next Plan period (1975-1980), the primary objective
of Bank activities in Nigeria should continue to be to assist Government
efforts to increase investment in the high priority areas of agricultural
and rural infrastructure development and to improve public sector capability
to manage and promote the future growth of the modern sectors, rather than
to increase available resources. During recent discussions with the Govern-
ment, it was also agreed that the most efficient and effective means of
providing this assistance would be in association with capital projects
typically financed by the Bank, such as the projects proposed today.
14.        Nigeria's creditworthiness for additional borrowing on conventional
terms is not in question. As of December 31, 1972, total external public and
publicly guaranteed debt, including undisbursed loans, amounted to an estimated
$1,035 million, of which approximately $57 million represented suppliers'
credits. Outstanding but undisbursed commitments of official capital were
about $426 million. Debt service in 1972 was 2.5 percent of gross exports, or
less than 4 percent of exports less factor payments. In view of the substan-
tially improved resource position of the country, and the consequent uncer-
tainty as to the level of its future borrowings, it would not be possible to
state, at this stage, what the Bank's share of Nigeria's total outstanding
debt or debt service will be in the next five years. The Bank Group's share
of total external public debt (including undisbursed) at the end of 1972 was
about 45 percent. This relatively high share essentially reflects Nigeria's
low level of external debt ($14 per capita in 1972) rather than substantial
lending by the Bank ($6 per capita, Including undisbursed, at the end of 1972).
15.        The Government of Nigeria is favorably inclined to re-cycle a
portion of its accumulating resources for the benefit of the developing
world. During the past six months, Nigeria has increased its subscription
to the African Development Bank and announced that it will no longer seek
to borrow from that institution; donated $800,000 to the Consultative Group
for International Agricultural Research, thus becoming the first developing
country to contribute to the Group; and contributed SDR100 million to the IMF
Oil Facility. In addition, Nigeria has recently agreed to make a substantial
purchase of Bank bonds, the terms of which are currently under negotiation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
16.        Bank/IDA lending to Nigeria to date amounts to $621.9 million (net
of cancellations) of which $370.8 million was committed during the period of
the Second National Development Plan. Transport and power together account
for $428.2 million or about 69 percent of the total, and agriculture, educa-
tion, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan account for the remaining
31 percent; excluding the program loan, the respective shares are about 75
percent for transport and power and 25 percent for the other three sectors.
Although disbursements have been lagging, the execution of projects has gen-
erally been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



17.        Bank activities since 1970 have generally been aimed at assisting
Nigeria in the following three broad areas: (a) reconstruction and rehabili-
tation of the economy after the civil war; (b) institution-building in the
public sector; and (c) extensive economic, sector and project preparation
work. In pursuance of these aims, Bank commitments in FYs 1971, 1972, 1973
and 1974 amounted to $97.2 million, $119.6 million, $54 million and $75
million, respectively; during the same period, an economic mission and agri-
culture, education and transportation sector missions visited Nigeria; and
extensive assistance was provided to the State Governments in identifying and
perparing projects designed to raise the production and incomes of small
farmers.
18.        The proposed project, and the four other projects under considera-
tion today, reflect the increasing emphasis being given to agriculture and
rural development in the Federal Government's plans for investing oil revenues
for the benefit of the bulk of the population who live in rural areas. Nego-
tiations with the Bank have been completed for three further agricultural
projects directed towards raising the production of palm oil from nucleus
estates and smallholdings in the Western, Mid-Western and East Central States.
Other projects in an advanced state of processing will be concerned with small-
holder rubber production in the Mid-Western State and an irrigation scheme
near Kano, and work is underway on the preparation of two further rural develop-
ment projects, similar to those being presented today, in the Benue Plateau and
Kwara States in the center of the country. These last four projects should be
ready for presentation to Executive Directors within the next eighteen months.
Outside agriculture the activities of the Bank Group are being restricted over
the next few years to a small number of projects for which the Federal Govern-
ment has requested assistance in building up new institutions required to
strengthen essential infrastructure and to provide employment for the rapidly
growing urban population. Work is currently proceeding on the preparation of
projects for small-scale industry and water supply and sewerage in small towns
and rural areas. The possibility of Bank assistance in the reorganization of
the telecommunications sector has been discussed, but no decision has been
taken. No further lending is presently envisaged for highways, power or
education which have been important areas of Bank Group involvement in the
past. However, two education projects are still at an early stage of imple-
mentation, and their supervision will make considerable demands on the time
of Bank staff. The work of the Bank's Resident Mission in Lagos is largely
concentrated on project preparation in agriculture and public utilities and
on the supervision of on-going projects in these and other sectors.
19.        Since foreign exchange as such is no longer a scarce resource in
Nigeria, the extent of the Bank's participation in the financing of individual
projects is being determined more by reference to what is considered to be an
appropriate share of total costs. For projects which have high priority in
meeting basic economic and social problems such as those in agriculture and
rural development, where the direct foreign exchange component may also be
relatively low, the Bank has been financing 50% of total costs, and this is
the formula proposed for the sharing of costs of the five projects under
consideration today and the three other projects for which loans have already



-7-
been negotiated. In the case of four of the five projects under consideration
today the foreign exchange component ranges between 47 and 51%; for the Rice
project it is 30%. This cost-sharing formula will be re-examined before
further negotiations take place.
20.        During the five years since the end of the civil war in January
1970, Bank Group commitments to Nigeria have averaged about $80 million a
year. Disbursements on Bank loans to Nigeria have lagged well behind commit-
ments. During the current fiscal year, they are not expected to exceed $54
million on a gross basis, or $18 million net of interest and principal repay-
ments to the Bank. A large increase in the level of lending was discussed
with the Nigerian Government wo years ago when it was assumed that Nigeria
would continue to require a substantial inflow of external capital for financ-
ing investments in the power and transport sectors which had absorbed the
bulk of previous Bank loans. Now that these requirements can be met from
Nigeria's own resources, the level and direction of Bank lending in future
years will have to be reviewed in the context of the country's new Five-Year
Plan, and such a review is planned for April or May next year when the Govern-
ment expects discussions on the Plan to have been completed.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA
21.        Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry is by
far the most important source of output and employment: in 1971/72 it
contributed about $4 billion or 46 percent of the country's gross domestic
product and about 70 percent of the labor force is estimated to be employed
in this sector.
22.        Nigerian agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented.   Nearly
90 percent of her production - comprising all staple food crops and animal
products, most palm oil and cotton, and a substantial part of groundnuts - is
consumed within the country. Nigeria is nearly self-sufficient in foods.
In 1971-72, total imports of food and beverages - of which meat, milk and
sugar are the main items - were of the order of $145 million or less than
5 percent of estimated total food consumption. Exports of agricultural
products in 1971-72 were valued at $265 million. Until the mid-sixties, they
were the dominant element in Nigeria's export trade, but have since been over-
taken by crude oil. Even so, they are still a significant source of foreign
exchange and account for the bulk of the non-oil exports.
23.        Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecolog-
ical zones; a southern wet forest zone comprising the Western, Mid-Western,
East-Central, South-Eastern and Rivers States, characterized by high rainfall
and a tropical climate and growing mainly perennial tree crops, namely cocoa,
rubber and oil palm; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt
embracing the whole of Kwara State, Benue Plateau, the southern parts of
North-Western, North-Central and North-Eastern States which is underpopulated
and tsetse infested, but has a high potential for annual food crops and live-
stock; and a northern zone which, being free from tsetse has a high population



- 8 -
density and a fairly intensive and developed system of agriculture. This area
covers about 50 percent of the country, and in addition to supporting most of
Nigeria's cattle population, also produces most of her cereals, beans, ground-
nuts and cotton.
24.        Land holdings are typically small.   The average farmed area per
holding for the country as a whole is estimated to be less than three
acres. In some of the more densely populated areas of the south, the
average is less than one acre. There are few farm families with more than
25 acres of cultivated area. Farmers follow for the most part traditional
techniques of which bush fallowing and mixed cropping are characteristic
features. The practice of bush fallowing is essentially a device to main-
tain soil fertility. Mixed cropping permits farmers to get more output
per acre with smaller risks of crop failure. However, since improved seed,
fertilizers and other elements of modern technology are used on a very
limited scale, average yields are still low. Small holdings and poor produc-
tivity explain the relatively low level of income in the agricultural sector.
There are also considerable disparities in the distribution of land and
incomes both between and within regions.
25.        While reliable data are lacking, it is believed that agricultural
production since the early sixties has been growing only slightly faster
than population. Agriculture has certainly been growing much slower than
other sectors, and as a result, its share in GDP has been declining. The
relative sluggishness of agriculture is largely attributable to the exist-
ing low level of agricultural technology. The disruption of production in
the eastern states during the civil war was an aggravating factor. Since
then, the recovery has been hampered by short-term factors such as drought
in parts of the north in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but, more particularly, by
a number of underlying long-term influences. Some of the most important
factors among these are the rising age-profile of tree crops, technical and
other constraints to accelerated food crop production, e.g., the lack of
improved crop varieties and adequate credit facilities to finance the pur-
chase of modern farm inputs. Imports of food, though still small, have
risen from around $70 million in 1965-66 to $145 million in 1972. The slow
growth of production has also affected exports. Cocoa and rubber exports
have remained stagnant in recent years.   Palm oil exports have dwindled to
negligible amounts and palm kernel exports are stagnating at well below
pre-war levels. Groundnut exports in 1972 were some 80 percent below the
1965 level and were even lower in 1973 because of the drought in the north.
In addition the availability of groundnuts for export has been affected by
substitution of groundnut for p~tm oil in domestic consumption and the rela-
tively better price offered to farmers by private traders. A near record
groundnut crop is in prospect for 1974. Cotton, once a major export, is now
fully utilized by the local textile industry and local supply cannot meet
demand.
26.        A vigorous effort to step-up the growth of agricultural and live-
stock production is essential for viable development of the economy. The
demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly. On a rough estimate,
the resources generated by the oil sector would be adequate to sustain a



-9-
growth rate of over 9 percent per annum in real terms over the next decade.
This will generate a 6 percent average annual increase in domestic demand
for farm products. Unless the rate of agricultural growth is accelerated,
the economy faces the prospect of large and increasing food imports. More
importantly, continued slow growth of agricultural production implies a
slow improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the population with
the attendant risks of further aggravation of rural-urban disparities.
27.        Nigeria has vast unexploited potential for increasing agricultural
production. The productivity of practically all segments of agriculture -
food, export crops, and livestock - are far below levels attainable with
modern farming methods. In addition there are extensive areas of good agri-
cultural and grazing land which, if developed along scientific lines, could
greatly increase production. While improved varieties and techniques adapted
to local conditions are not available for all crops and regions, much can be
done on the basis of existing knowledge. Significant improvements in pro-
ductivity of many of the major export and cereal crops have been demonstrated
to be technically and economically feasible. The main constraints are organi-
zational and institutional: until recently Government efforts to help the
farmers to learn and apply the known techniques for raising production have
not been on a scale commensurate with needs and possibilities. Extension
services in many states are poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions
are few, planning is weak and the expertise needed to implement successfully
major agricultural and other rural development projects is in short supply.
There are also complex social and institutional problems to be overcome before
the land potential, including the resources of the middle belt, can be effec-
tively exploited, and the livestock industry organized along modern lines.
28.        The Federal and State Governments are conscious of the need for
greater attention to agriculture and of the impediments to be overcome before
significant progress can be achieved. Several major new programs initiated
within the last year or two bear witness to a heightened Government concern
for and interest in agricultural development. These include the creation of
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank, the launching of an accelerated food produc-
tion program, larger and better organized projects for replantingiplanting of
tree crops and integrated agricultural development projects in different
parts of the country. At the request of the Government, the Bank has actively
assisted in the preparation of many of these projects. The Bank economic
mission in 1973 made an overall survey of the potential and prospects for
food production. Agriculture and rural development generally are of crucial
importance to Nigeria's long-term growth, and the Bank plans to continue
assisting Nigeria in preparing and implementing projects in this area.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
29.        A full review of the livstock sub-sector is contained in Ainex 7
of the report entitled "Agricultural Sector Survey - Nigeria" (PA-115(a))
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 19, 1973 (R73-74).



- 10 -
30.        Based on estimates of population growth, urbanization, and in-
creases of real income, demand for beef is expected to increase by 6 percent
to 8 percent per annum over the next ten to fifteen years. Already, however,
domestic producers cannot satisfy current demands and their production is
supplemented by imports equivalent to 250,000-300,000 head of cattle per
annum. Prices of beef have increased by 50 percent to 70 percent over the
last five years as other countries in the region are also competing for
supplies in the same markets.
31.        Nigeria's domestic beef industry comprises about 11 million cattle,
most of which are in areas of low tsetse fly incidence in the six northern
states. Herds are generally owned by nomadic and semi-nomadic Fulani and
Kanuri tribesmen whose methods are not sufficiently efficient and market
oriented. Herd productivity is further depressed by disease and poor nutri-
tion. The use of modern production inputs such as improved pastures, grazing
control, improved veterinary hygiene, feed supplements and fencing is minimal.
Crop and livestock production exist as separate industries and with population
and land pressures intensifying, there is a need to demonstrate the feasi-
bility of integrating these operations.
32.        In Nigeria as a whole, less than 8 percent of the rural households
are estimated to maintain any cattle. Less than one percent of households
in the western and eastern states have cattle, compared to 14 percent in the
north, which accounts for 95 percent of the country's cattle population. This
high concentration of cattle in the north is due to the fact that the entire
rain forest zone in the south and the intermediate savannah of the middle belt
is infested with tsetse fly. On the other hand, the relatively low proportion
of cattle-owning households even in the north 1/ is indicative of high degree
of specialization in this activity. Most of the cattle are reared by nomadic
and semi-nomadic communities (of whom the Fulani are the most important) more
or less as their sole occupation.
33.        Other types of livestock also show a marked concentration in the
north. The entire population of donkeys, horses and camels, nearly 80
percent of the goats and 60 percent of the sheep are in the northern states.
34.        The livestock industry is marked by poor quality of stock, high
incidence of disease, uncontrolled grazing and generally low standards of
management. Livestock transport, slaughter houses and storage methods are
generally unsatisfactory.
35.        The number of cattle slaughtered rose by more than 7 percent a year
in the early 1960's. After a period of relative stagnation during 1966-69,
the rate of slaughter increased substantially and by 1970 it was 9 percent
above the 1965-66 level for cattle, and about a third higher in the case of
1/    "North" here includes the middle belt.   If the tsetse infested areas
are excluded, the percentage of cattle-owning households in the north
would be considerably higher.



sheep and goats. According to the Government estimates, however, the net
output of animal husbandry increased by a little over 3 percent a year in the
early sixties; and production in 1969-70 had not yet recovered the pre-war
levels.
36.        The problems of Nigeria's livestock industry are well known. A Bank-
sponsored survey, done in 1971, 1/ outlines an intergrated long-term strategy
for developing the sector. The main elements of the strategy include tsetse
eradication, breed improvement, better animal health and improved nutrition.
Far-reaching changes in the organization of cattle rearing are necessary to
improve management and facilitate introduction of modern techniques. On the
basis of this study the Bank formulated the proposed livestock project. The
experience gained from the project is expected to help in planning more com-
prehensive efforts in the years ahead. However, given the magnitude and the
complexity of problems to be solved, it is unrealistic to expect quick
improvements.
37.        Government gives high priority to increasing beef production and,
as a first step, has decided to encourage settlement of graziers and their
herds, and has increased available grazing areas by a large-scale tsetse fly
extermination program. As yet, however, Government has not published a
comprehensive strategy for the sub-sector but, in addition to tsetse fly
extermination, the Federal and State Governments have been engaged in cattle
breeding and fattening operations, some of which have been assisted by ex-
ternal aid programs. The Government's actions and statements indicate a
strategy that would also include better disease control, development of
commercial ranching, and the integration of crop and livestock production.
The proposed project would be consistent with these objectives and strategies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.        A report entitled "Appraisal of Livestock Development Project -
Nigeria," dated October 9, 1974 (127a-UNI) is being distributed separately.
A loan and project summary is attached at Annex III as is a map showing the
location of project areas.
39.        The proposed project would be the Bank's first for livestock develop-
ment in Nigeria. It was identified in late 1971 by a Commonwealth Development
Corporation livestock sector mission and was prepared during the last semester
of 1972 jointly by Government officials and consultants hired by the Bank.
The project was appraised by a Bank mission in July/August 1972 and the results
of the appraisal were discussed with the Nigerians in May and August 1973.
1/    Commonwealth Development Corporation, Report on National Livestock
Development Proposals: Nigeria (London, June 1971).



- 12 -
Negotiations were conducted in Washington in October 1973. The Nigerian
delegation was headed by Mr. Popo, Deputy Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Natural Resources. As a result of representations made
by Nigeria during negotiations, the cost estimates were revised, and the
Federal Government's approval of the revised loan documents was received in
September 1974.
Proj ect Description
40.        The proposed project would help build-up the national herd and
supply of beef by developing infrastructure, improving the methods of beef
cattle production, establishing grazing reserves and increasing the stocking
rates in the government-owned breeding ranches. It would assist breeding
and fattening operations by private ranchers and small near-subsistence
farmers with credit and technical support services and would seek to demon-
strate the feasibility of integrating livestock and crop farming at the small
farmer level. The project, which would be implemented over eight years,
would provide funds needed to build up breeding herds totalling about 100,000
head, improve about 21,000 acres of pasture, build 100 dams for watering
cattle and construct 2,000 miles of roads and firebreaks. The main features
of the project are as follows:
(a) establishment/improvement of seven state-owned breeding ranches,
two in the North-Eastern State (about 62,500 acres), and five
in the Western State (each of about 24,000 acres), by means
of pasture improvement, stock purchases, development of infra-
structure and the application of sound methods of pasture and
cattle management, prospectively increasing sales in the
North-Eastern State from the present 230 head to about 4,500
head annually and in the Western State from 1,100 to 19,000
head annually;
(b) improvement of two public sector fattening ranches,
one in the North-Central State (6,000 acres) and one in
the North-Western State (12,000 acres) for further
development as fattening and finishing operations,
involving establishment on each ranch of 1,500 acres of
improved pasture, and associated infrastructure with a
total through-put of about 10,000 head annually compared
with the present 3,000;
(c) provision of credit in cash and in kind, and technical
support services in the Western and North-Eastern States
for 50 private breeding/fattening ranches, each averaging
at present some 100 animal units, and for up to 1,500
smallholders, butchers and cattle traders under a pilot
scheme to demonstrate efficient methods of fattening and
to determine whether such small-scale beef fattening
operations should be promoted by Government;



- 13 -
(d) establishing in the North-Eastern State and North-Central
State, about 1,600 square miles of grazing reserves for
herds of nomadic tribesmen, and improving an existing
grazing reserve in the North-Central State involving invest-
ments in infrastructure and extension;
(e) applied research on pasture improvement and the production
of pasture seed;
(f) training for Government officials, farmers, and herdsmen
in cattle and pasture management involving the establishment
of a training center and overseas training for agriculture
and veterinary graduates;
(g) establishing, equipping and operating a heavy equipment
unit within the Livestock Project Unit (LPU) for project
land development, and road and small earth dam
construction activities; and
(h) project evaluation and planning for future livestock devel-
opment, involving the requisite consultant services.
41.        Principal expenditures for private and state ranches and grazing
reserve development would be for breeding and fattening stock, pasture
improvement, fencing, firebreaks, watering facilities, dips, vehicles and
equipment and salaries. Expenditures for applied research and training
would be for salaries and equipment; and project evaluation and planning
expenditures would include the costs of consultants as well as local staff.
Project Execution
42.        A Livestock Project Unit would be established in the Livestock
Department of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources to
provide ranch development plans and technical services to coordinate project
implementation. Together with the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB), which
would be the credit channel, the LPU would supervise development and opera-
tional progress of project ranches in both the public and private sectors.
At NAB's request, it would manage the smallholder fattening scheme. It would
also be responsible for the development and management of the grazing reserves
and for training, research and seed production facilities under the project.
LPU would be staffed by Federal Government employees and staff seconded by
State Governments. In view of the shortage of experienced Nigerian staff,
it will be necessary to fill the posts of Project Manager, Ranch Planning
and Technical Officers and Heavy Equipment, Pasture and Land Development
Specialists through international recruitment. The state-owned breeding and
fattening ranches in the North-Eastern, Western and North-Western States would
be owned and operated by three ranching companies. Two of the companies would
be owned by the Western and North-Eastern States (Western Livestock Company
(WLC) and North-Eastern Livestock Company (NELC)) and the third by the Federal
Government's National Livestock Production Company (NLPC). The establishment



- 14 -
of the ranching companies and the LPU and the appointment of the Project
Manager and Deputy Project Managers would be conditions of loan effective-
ness (Section 8.01 of Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financial Arrangements
43.        The total project cost is estimated at US$42.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$21.0 million. Details of the allocation
of project expenditures are summarized in Annex III. The following table
shows a breakdown of the financing arrangements:
State     Federal
Govern-    Govern-
Private   ment        ment     NAB    IBRD    TOTAL
------------------ (US$ millions) ----------------
NELC                            -      0.90        -       0.48    1.46     2.84
WLC                             -      3.11        -       1.86   5.56     10.53
NLPC                            -       -         0.97     0.16   0.64      1.77
Private Ranches                1.80    0.10        -       1.40   4.20      7.50
Smallholder Fatteners          0.08    0.15        -       0.34   1.11      1.68
Grazing Reserves
Fulani                      0.15     1.95       0.61      -     0.61      3.32
Kukar Jangarai               0.04    0.18       0.20      -     0.20      0.62
Project Administration and
Central Services              -       -         2.94      -     3.80      6.74
Sub-total                 2.07    6.39       4.72     4.24  17.58     35.00
Unallocated                    0.03    1.51       1.18     0.86   3.42      7.00
TOTAL                          2.10    7.90       5.90     5.10  21.00     42.00
%                              5      19         14       12     50       100
44.        The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million would be made for a term
of 20 years, including a grace period of 6 years.   The proceeds of the Bank
loan to be onlent to NAB (US$13.1 million) would carry the same interest rate
as the Bank loan, but would be for a term of 16 years, including 6 years of
grace. The Federal Government would bear the foreign exchange risks. NAB
sub-loans to the ranching companies and private ranchers would be for 13 to
15 years, including a grace period of 3 to 5 years. Sub-loans to smallholders,
who would be engaged in fattening operations, would be for a term of up to
12 months. With regard to the interest rates to be charged to the benefi-
ciaries, it is provided in the draft Loan Agreement that funds would be on-
lent by the NAB at an interest rate of "9-1/2 percent per annum or such other
rate as the Borrower and the Bank may from time to time determine." After
negotiations were completed, the Federal Government proposed, and the Bank
agreed, that funds should be onlent under the project at rates varying between



- 15 -
5 percent and 9-1/2 percent, depending on the beneficiary's ability to repay.
Since NAB has received substantial interest-free loans from the Federal
Government, it should be able to do this without impairing its financial
viability.
Disbursement and Procurement
45.        The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover (a) 75
percent of sub-loans disbursed by NAB to the NELC, WLC and private ranchers
for fixed investments and cattle; (b) 85 percent of NAB sub-loans to NLPC
for fixed investments; (c) 75 percent of annual incremental disbursements
made by NAB for smallholder fatteners, (d) 50 percent of Federal Government
grants to the North-Central and North-Eastern States for fixed investments
in grazing reserves; and (e) 100 percent of costs of internationally recruited
personnal and consultants, and foreign exchange expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and machinery. Disbursements against the Fulani Grazing Reserves
component would be made only after suitable areas had been acquired by the
North-Central and North-Eastern States; similarly, disbursement against the
Western State breeding ranches would be made only when satisfactory arrange-
ment had been made for the procurement of suitable cattle (Schedule 1, para 3
of Loan Agreement).
46.        Procurement of goods and services, viz., vehicles, equipment and
machinery, including equipment for the construction of small earth dams and
tracks for ranches and grazing reserves, would be in accordance with inter-
national competitive bidding, as provided in the Guidelines for Procurement.
Contracts for goods valued at less than US$25,000 are not likely to attract the
interest of foreign bidders and would be awarded through locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures. Livestock purchases valued at US$5.8 million
would be made through negotiated contracts, as it is not practical to pur-
chase them under international bidding procedures. The project requires
cattle suited to local conditions that can only be obtained in Nigeria through
the traditional trading system or, in the case of trypano-tolerant breeding
animals, through negotiated contracts with Governments of other West African
countries. Private farmers and ranchers receiving loans from the NAB would
be free to procure goods and services, predominantly for building and fencing,
tools, watering facilities, fertilizers, pesticides and cattle through commer-
cial channels. The services of management personnel and consultants would be
obtained according to procedures acceptable to the Bank. Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference or customs duty which-
ever is lower and eligible domestic contractors would be allowed a 7-1/2
percent preference in evaluating bids. There are no regional preferences
applicable to the procurement of goods.
Benefits and Risks
47.        The proposed project is an attempt to improve and modernize cattle
production in Nigeria by providing technical and infrastructural support
and establishing institutions to develop and coordinate cattle development
programs in the country. The project, which involves the employment on a



- 16 -
significant scale of systems and methods hitherto applied only on a limited
scale in Nigeria, could be classified as a large-scale pilot project aimed
at determining the most efficient means of combining proven technology with
the particular demands of the Nigerian situation.
48.        The project's quantifiable benefits take the form of increased
beef and breeding stock production. On the basis of these benefits the
economic rates of return from investments in the directly productive sub-
projects are estimated to be:   NLPC, 18 percent; NELC, 14 percent; WLC, 13
percent; private ranches, 13 percent and smallholder fatteners, 15 percent.
These rates of return are before charging LPU costs; when these are taken
into account, the overall rate of return for the project is about 11 percent.
49.        The project's incremental annual production at full development
after 10 years would be 4,200 tons of carcass weight of beef and breeding
stock consisting of about 11,000 breeding heifers and 700 breeding bulls.
The total value of this incremental production is estimated at US$10 million
a year. With increasing shorages of beef supplies from Nigeria's neighbors,
who constitute traditional sources of supply, the beef and breeding stock
produced by the project are expected to find a ready market domestically.
50.        The unquantifiable benefits resulting from the project would be
significant and include: (a) the development of a source of improved trypano-
tolerant breeding stock; (b) the demonstration of benefits from pasture im--
provement; (c) the involvement of the private sector in modern systems of
cattle production; (d) the development of systems for settling nomadic
graziers and of developing land now unused due to tsetse fly infestation;
(e) the mobilization of trained Nigerian veterinarians and agriculturalists
in a major livestock development program; and (f) the demonstration of the
feasibility of integrating livestock and crop farming at the smallholder level
which would help solve the social problem of increasing confrontation between
herdsmen and agriculturalists in the heavily populated North.
51.        The project is designed to integrate the credit operations of the
recently established NAB with the technical capabilities for project planning
and implementation of the Livestock Project Unit, so that necessary finances
and skills are transmitted to the cattle producers. The organization of
ranching companies as well as the financing of private breeding and fattening
operations is expected to promote a market oriented cattle industry in the
country. The pilot smallholder fattening scheme and grazing reserves schemes
are expected to provide the pastoralists access to improved production methods
and incentive to practice settled livestock farming. The institutional
capabilities and studies financed by this project are expected to improve
the framework for future livestock development.
52.        Implementation would involve risks:   as the project would be located
in four different states and be large and complex, management would be a
critical factor. Overall coordination would be the responsibility of LPU,
a new organization; livestock credit would be handled by NAB which was only
recently established; and the State-owned ranches to be taken over by the



- 17 -
project may find it difficult to accept tight, commercially minded manage-
ment. The success of the pilot grazing reserves would depend on the rate at
which nomads settle and begin to produce cattle for sale rather than for herd
increase. At this time it is impossible to be sure how quickly or to what
extent this will happen.  This component is, however, mainly designed to
provide information for use in formulating future policy. It is considered
that the benefits of the project justify the proposed investments and the
associated risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the NAB and the Bank,
the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.        Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are re-
ferred to in paras. 42 and 45.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
55.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments






0NT11% I
Pe.0 0 of 3 pegs.
02102W! DaTh - NiGERIA1
MIrdU                                              P0PhU7108N                                  LeNS!?!
923,768 )ml                                       tZ-r Tlio        (id-19'2)
215      per ka2of arabia land
Reference Courtries
QNPfMR C6PILThuSSJATU       Ashal)a /I                                         130f            130Ak        300L         3yeL
DEDOGrAPSI1C
Oflhdo oTrth Iet."  pet toeotund)                             53-57 /h         50 5t            1 L. J      6? Ic         3 ft
Crude death to,e (Per tnoaseid)                                 -25 a16 /c                                 i8  e.      1 0
Infet mortality rote (par therosed line births)                                                            .           5   L-.
LtOt *tpoctonc2 at birth (years)                                37           60 Li            .                        64
Ir-ss -eprodtcto   rate                                                       . 
POWnlstoon geocet rata..                                                    32                34          3. 26       32
PorPaIetiso growth rate - -rban6 
Ags etvocnrz  (prcnt
3-11                                                         u3/IA        .                 5     ~     13          4
15-AL                                                         15           5                 Z5 t        119         50
5 d-y r    tiot  /L.1                                                     1.37                          1.A           .
'Jricen pootconpercent of total                                 11 lit.      23 /1.'          28 ft        37 Li        59 
Fatily p~Iacn'lg. 8N. of eaCeptare rulettee (tines.)            ....11-
Hc. o!u  fre(   2tstld,e)..L
RW  'Tibbr force (t2-cenrde)                                 16,300 I     223,500 /        8 1i,O        3,500) L   13,0)00
Pernolgo      nrlye         ...' eh -dto                       71y hihghest2                               5 66        1
of cn  neisd     -oo   rcevd by highest 8%                  ...                            .            .3,Lt
Petted  of naltonal laca-  raendby l.w,eet 21%..41
P.rcent of _atirea.l ih,cur  __ctod by 1a_,et 40%               .-...                                                  21LIL
% eaned by te11OR  of% ofor                                     ..           ..
POpuletiooP. persingeperso                                  52,00  /e    20.530 /t         3,800 f     12,~980      11,160
Population P.r nhrspingl perso                                  ..         ,220 Li         7,150  A     101L        1,570
Population per hospital bed                   6~~~~~~~~~~,061  s  1,880    1,660 ft        761         930
Pot oap Its calorie suppl  ma % of requiroenets                102L  v       95              105 /6        866        120
Per napit prti      upl,tl       (rm    Per dayT  6             66 5         60 Iq             5           Ut 1  f      5
if ahib, anmal ed pose                                   17 ft        16 ft146                      lo           28 /tb
tehrat 1-I.ysr /7                                                                                                   U1
Ad_jUotEd /8 prteery sohool enralinleot ratio                   37           34               (4. /o,y     89         lot,
Adj_std 7P secandary echeol. enorl.lment rolls                   3            I.              16 Z-j        5          23
Yeas o flsahg proided, first and second level             11 IL                         10 /.a       15           12
Voatoetnal eurlineo   as %. of son. . ehool erles                                                    2
Adult literary rats0 9L
=eerage  e.- of pereuno per ream (urban)                       3.0 Io         .                .            .          25
Pennant of oucipded unate orit1hout piped eater                 .             .                                         I..0
Aosses to al-triolty tee % of tota   population)Sio.o                        ...17                                     h
Peeoeot of trall POPulation conneoted ta oleoteisity...
RRES2  1-r,per 1010 pueolettoo                                L            20/              8In         7            0
Passenger cros per 1002 pepulation                             0.               f                 l,        12
llortrio poser caomamption (kv  p.o.                             12                           (  y        32I         586
Neesprist caasueptioo p.c. ag pet year        ~~~0.1         0.3             0.3 Ito4h    0.1          3.1
Nates1,: Figure. refer either to the latet peiods or to            account af enviroanenta  temperature, body velguta, ear
the laest Yroro    blet pariode refer ino prlaolp.                 disteibation by age WOO .- of eattae,e  popu.laon..
the por    956-60 or 1.966-7%  thioue             p ,.-         &  Protein stanodards (requtreeata) fur all conatriese- asotal-
olpie in 1960 ond 1970.                                            1ile.e by USDA Konoeloi Rmseeroh Service provide aor o mInteo
ft The Per CoPita GNP netleote to at =,nea   prtono far            allowasoc of 60 perS of total prelte per day, ant 20 geese of
Yoar. uth-r than ho6, aIouIetod bg' the amo sonarino            anma an    pulse protein, ofr which 10 pace should hs animal
tschnlqu.e as the 1972 Wdrld Bark Atlas.                       protein.  Those steAard. ore oreothat lomw thor, those of 15
Li A-erage -ubelr 0fdeoghtere per -na     of  preps,btlve           peow af total protein and1 23 preas, of animal protein as sen
oge.       growh                                                  m     far tra -nnA, PruPomd by PAO in' the Third World Food
ft Popotto   growt roles are for the dooodoe ending fr            Sur,sy
1960 end '1970.                                                 Sons stuies have suggested that trade death reline of childre
ftEtir or ,udesr iS arc 65 end aner age brmoksts to               ees I throrugh 1. my ha used a.s erirst epproximatione index of
these in later farce brohet of ages 15 throcogh 61.             Malelntitimf.
LiFA  referencestatndards represent pWip-ilogital so-         /S Parostege erfld of sorr-iourding pepulation of school age
qolri ots fcc --oeol activity and health, teking                am defined far each country.
01972;    fb 1?52-531      At 1965-70W Ketisae;      /   Inlsdlep Namlaold-t';    As Registered only;1    &_ 1972;
1960-fl2 i  A   1953-631     LAbe o5ciitten rot   Antiile     f    Estimate; I      Over 5020 inhabitants, also a fee arets
basing urban chararteristios but fewer than~ 5000 populatioen;    at  Towns with a population af 8000 ord .rer;     Z&  Local-
lIOns of 0500 or este     &   1963;     La  Ratio of popuoletian under 15 and 65 and soar in totel labor forcel     Z2  FAQ
eetinate;    ft  1969;    ft   Huseholde;     ft 19621    (, Nhumber or, the regieter, not all weorking Intheb tootttryI
I lclcudoa er-North Ceneroon;     /v 1961-631     &E  1966468j    ft   C.s through fi- ho;  &   19681     at  Six through tea;
tiP to  atriculata (10t-h grsde)j   Zfk19646;        /se  l.96li   /ad   Prornntaeg of urban dorellinge;    fj Rasher ef
radio licenses jestd;     /&g  1968469;    ,Lgg  Dath relate is electricity generated, loolodo etation .ee -an trace-
r,o I -nooen   tat rigo- dose ot inlulade ipporto by land.;     Itt  1962-72.
* xleon has beene selected as an ebleotins country because lie per capit. lnoose, in the early, 1970'o, ise abbout twice Nigeria's
projeotad per supita inton, in th.ednd-1980's at. 1971 prices. Ales, Mexico's present level of devnlnpaer.t is a realietio
target f or Nigeria through the remainder, af this seottep.
EK.                                                                                               212 )oo-1bor 26. 1971.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1970/7)  Drices)
US $ Mln.       7.                        1965/6h,-1970/71      1971/72       1972/73
GNP at Market Prices         10690          100o0                            4.2                12.3          7.9
Gross Domestic Investment     23L7           22.0                            4.'                32.0        -6.o
Gross National Saving         1912           17.9                            4.0                57-3        15.L
Current Account Balance      --hJ5          - 4.1-
Exports of Goods, NFS         2235           20.9                           10.2                25.0          4.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         2006           18.8                            9.1                20.0         -4-.
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AD'D
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970/71
1/
Value Added                         Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.      %                      Mln.        %                    US           %
Agriculture                  3-303         48                     16.8       70                    197           69
Industry                     1690          25                      3.1       13                    515          190
Services                     1895          27                      4.1       17                    162          161
Unallocated                      .
Total/Average           6888        100.0                    24.0      100.0                  287         1o0.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(NRira Mln.)         % of GDP                 ( Naire Mln.)       % of GDP
19727 3                                        1972/73       92      196970-1971/72
Current Receipts    2/                  1L420         18.9          17.h                95L         12.7        11.0
Current Expenditurer                    1102          X1,.6         15.0                652          8.7         9.5
Current Surplus                          34.2 2.               4                      -3602 l
Capital Expenditures                     440           5.3           3.7                343          4.6         1.5
External Assistance (net)                 29             .            .                  29
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to the sector of their normal occupation.
2/ Includes capital expenditures for defense.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
COUNTRY DATA - (name)
September
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                       1969        1970         197]        1972         1972        197'
(Million Naiitoutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         665         982        1025         1196         1125        1345
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 518          708         570          558         567          709
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 327         478          593         757          639         718
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD             16.6        17.4         14.8        15.5
General Price Index (1960 = 100)-           132.3       150.6        174.7       179.6        184.7       183.0-/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                      13.8        16.o          2.8                    - 0.42/
Bank credit to Public Sector                    .        16.7       -19.5        - 2.0           *         25.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                   .46.2                24.0         27.6           .         12.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197C-72)
1970     1971      1972    1973                                       US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)         Prel.      Crude oil                       1280       72.L4
Cocoa products                   198       11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS          1335     1991      2327    3355
Imports of Goods, NFS          1311     1858      1947    2219       Groundnut products                75        24.2
Palm products                     W14       2.5
Resource Gap (deficit =          2) 7T   -T73    378      1135       Tin                                37       2.1
Interest Payments (net)         -16      - 1       ...     ...       All other commodities             133       7.5
Workers' Remittances              -         -        -        -            Total                      1767      l0Q,O
Other Factor Payments (net)     447       598      725     471
Net Transfers                    63         3      _23     -53     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1972
Balance on Current Account     -376   -6 8 ZT
11S $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment       251       338      337     140
Net MLT Borrowing                                                     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            1,035
Disbursements                 49       65       117     123       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                  35       37        32      43       Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                   1-                           -Mu                                 31
Capital Grants                    -         -        -       _     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1972-
Other Capital (net)              17       15        15       -
Other items n.e.i               1791     260      _121    -598
Increase in Reserves (+)         85      178      - 52    +233       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
?Vel and Related Ma-                                                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
terials
Imports                        31        13       14      14      IBRD/IDA Lending. (October 31. 1974)   (Mln US$)
of which:   Petroleum          -         -        -       -
Exports                       714     1334      1788    2800                                       IBRD     IDA
of which:  Petroleum         714     1334      1788    2800        Outstanding & Disbursed        305.3    30.6
Undisbursed                    241.9      4.?
RATF OF FYCHANGE                                                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 547.2     35.3
Through Dec. 19, 1971   Since Dec. 20,191SneArl17
~~~~~ ~~              ~~~~.7       Since ApDril 19714
US $ 1.00 = NO.71       us$  .     - NO.66  Floating Central rate;                                              -
N 1.00 =-iS $1.40      N 1.00 - US $1.52 US$ 1.00 = NO.62 - N 1.00 = TTS tL.A2
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Index of Consumer Prices
2/ Average January - June
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



Am;2x II
TH' Sl'A.TUS OF BANK Z.OUP OPERATIONS IN NT,LKF.IA
A.  STAThMPNT OF BANK GROUP OPEFATIONS IN NIGEFRIA
(as at Cctobe- 31, 197h)
Loan or                                                                           U0$ million
Credit                                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year     Borrower                          Purpose           Bank      IDL     Undisbursed
Nine loans and one credi- :':lly disbursed                               282.1     15.3
72        19g5     Nieeria                           Fducation                 20.0         4.7
427        1965     Nb-erir                          FRoads             14-5                 2.
69h        1970     Ni-eria                           Transport.        25.0                 4.8
70C        197C     Industrial Development Bank       rev. .in. Co.     10.0                 h.1
764        1971     Niigeria                          Cocoa Dev.         7.2
814        1972     Nireri aducation -I                                 17.3                17.0
538        1972     Niseria                            1oads V          2c.3                1c.0
S47        1972     VEPt                              Power             76.0                61.2
922        1973     NPA                               Por: s II         55.0                -5.0
929*       1973     Nigeria                           7ducation III     50.0                50.0
105*        1974     Ni-eria                           Cocca Ti          20.0      _20,0
Total                                              587.&     35.3
of which has been repaid
Total now outstanding                              050.0
Amount sold                       16.6
of which has ncw beon ropatd     23.6               2.c     ---
Total now hold by
Bank and TTIA"                                    (r       35.3
Total undisbursed                                  241.9     0u.7      206.6
*Not yet effective
**Prior to exchange rate ad3ustments
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at October 31, 1970)
Amount in US$ million
- YearObligr                                           Type of Business     Loar   Equity  Total
196h, 1967, 1970      Arewa Textiles Ltd.                   Textile Mfg.            0.9   0.7      1.6
196h            Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank Ltd.                            Dev. Fin. Co             -    1.0     1.0
1973            Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd.       Veg. Oil Crushing       1.6    -      1.6
1970            Lafiagi Sugar Estates                 Sugar                    -    0.1     0.1
1973            Nigeria Aluminum Extrusion Ltd.       Aluminum processing     1.0   0.3      1.3
Total Gross Commitments                                       3.5   2.5      6.0
Less cancellation                                            0.3    -       0.3
Less sold or repaid                                          1.1   0.3      1.
Total commitments now held by IFC                             2.1   2.2      0.3
Undisbursed                                                                  '.1



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution
Credit 72-UNIT, Education Project: US$20.0 million
Credit of March 1, 1965; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Loan 814-UNI, Second Aducation Project: US$17.3 million
Loan of April 18, 1972; Closing Date:  December 31, 1975 -
Loan 929-UNI, Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million
Loan of August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
rhe first education project (72-UNI) had a late start in implementa-
tion, particularly in the three eastern states which were affected by the
civil strife between 1967 and 1970. Execution of project schools in these
states is at working drawings stage while the majority of project schools
in other states are under construction. Completion of work in eastern
states might take about two more years. Fxecution of the second education
project (814-UNI) is generally satisfactory, although it is twelve months
behind schedule and special implementation assistance would be needed in
one state to avoid further delay. The third education project (929-UNI)
has not yet been declared effective pending appointment of consultant-
architects and execution of subsidiary loan agreements and legal opinion.
The effectiveness date has been postponed to December 31, 1974. Action
to appoint consultant-architects and to fulfill the other conditions of
effectiveness is progressing.
Loan 427-UNI, Western Road Project:  US$14.5 million
Loan of September 26, 1965; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 694-UNI, Transport Rehabilitation: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 26, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 838-UNI, Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million
Loan of June 16, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
There has been a saving of $2.5 million in Loan 427-UNI, out of which
procurement of road machinery and conduct of a photogrammatic survey would
be financed and the balance, estimated at approximately $2 million, would
likely be cancelled. Construction work and procurement under the Transport
Rehabilitation Loan (694-UNI) have proceeded satisfactorily except for
procurement of some railway equipment which has been affected by administra-
tive delays as well as delays in delivery schedule due to the energy crisis.
However, deliveries are now proceeding satisfactorily and the loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1975.
Loan 705-UNI, Nigerian Industrial Development Bank: US$10.0 million
Loan of August 28, 1970; Revised Closing Date:  March 31, 1975
This loan is fully committed. Withdrawals out of this loan in 1973
were slower than expected owing to cancellation of sub-project loan commit-
ments.



ANNEX II
Page 3
-3-
Loan 764-UNI, Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million
Loan of June 23, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Loan 1O45-UNI, Second Cocoa Project: US$20 million
Loan of October 11, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Though there was delay under Loan 764-UNI in the establishment of
the Cocoa Development Unit and only 65 percent of first year planting
was achieved, excellent progress was made and the 1973 planting target
and 1972 backlog have been fulfilled. The Second Cocoa Project (Loan
1045-UNI) is expected to become effective by January 1975.
Loan 847-UNI, Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million
Loan of June 30, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This loan became effective only on June 13, 1973, owing to delay
in connection with the Loan Assumption Agreement for the previous Bank
loans in this sector. Progress on the Bank project is considered satis-
factory.
Loan 922-UNI, Second Lagos Ports Project: US$55 million
Loan of August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan became effective on October 29, 1973 and implementation
of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX III
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:              US$21.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Amortization in 20 years, including a 6-year
grace period, with interest at 8 percent.
Relending Terms:     Federal Government would on-lend $13.1 nillion to
the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB) at the same
interest rate as the Bank loan for a term of 16
years, including 6 years of grace for principal.
NAB sub-loans to State and Federal ranching
companies and private ranchers would be for 13
to 15 years, including a grace period of 3 to 5
years for principal, at an appropriate interest
rate varying between 5 percent and 9-1/2 percent;
credit to smallholders would be supplied in kind
and would be for a term of up to 12 months at
an appropriate interest rate varying between 5
percent and 9-1/2 percent.
Project
Description:       (a) Establish a Livestock Project Unit (LPU) in the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
to carry out the project; (b) establish or improve
seven breeding ranches owned by State ranching
companies; (c) improve two fattening ranches of
Federally-owned livestock production company; (d)
provide credit and technical support to about 50
commercial farmers and settled Fulani to establish
breeding/fattening ranches; (e) provide credit
and technical assistance under a pilot scheme for
up to 1,500 smallholders to take up beef cattle
fattening; (f) establish 1,600 sq. miles of new
grazing reserves and improve 1,500 acres of pastures
in the existing Kukar-Jangarai Reserve; (g) carry
out pasture improvement research; establish a pilot
pasture seed production scheme; and provide training
facilities for government officials, farmers and
herdsmen in practical management of cattle and
pasture; (h) establish a pool of heavy equipment
for project land development and road and dam
construction activities; and (i) employ consultants to



ANNEX III
Page 2
evaluate the project on a regular basis, to conduct
studies and prepare further stages of the national
beef cattle program.
Foreign Exchange
Risk:              Carried by Federal Government of Nigeria.
Cost of Project
US$'000
CATEGORY                              LOCAL     FOREIGN        TOTAL
Infrastructure & Equipment                     4,496        4,098       8,594
Cattle (feeder steers and breeding and
fattening stock)                             4,789        5,849      10,638
Velhicles, tractors, graders, machinery, etc.      98       1,807       1,905
Working capital                                 4,140       2,609       6,749
Incremental feed for smallhodler fatteners        319          -          319
Technical services for private ranchers
and smallhodler fatteners                       149          -           149
Consultants                                        -          474         474
Overseas training                                  -          146          146
Seed multiplication                                68          30           98
Development expenses for grazing reserves       1,821         494       2,315
Salaries, wages and other expenses              1,875       1,738       3,613
Contingencies                                   3,445       37555        7,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        21,200      20,800      42,000
Amount
Financing Plan                                      in US$ million
IBRD loan                                               21.0
State Governments                                        7.9
Federal Government                                       5.9
Nigerian Agricultural Bank                               5.1
Private individuals                                      2.1
TOTAL                                              42.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement
Arrangements:      Procurement of vehicles, earthmoving and
other equipment, housing and fencing wire,
estimated at $4.7 million, would be by
international competitive bidding except
for contracts below $25,000. Livestock
purchases for State-owned ranches, valued
at $5.8 million, would be obtained through
the traditional trading system or through
negotiated contracts. Procurement of cattle,
goods and services by private ranchers, valued
at $10.7 million would be done through local
trading channels. Land clearing, construction
of on-ranch earth dams, tracks, roads, and
fire breaks, estimated to cost $2.5 million,
would be carried out by the Heavy Equipment
Unit of the project. Internationally re-
cruited staff and consultants ($2.6 million),
would be hired according to procedures accep-
table to the Bank. For bid evadulation,
domestically manufactured goods would be allowed
a 15 percent preference or customs duty,
whichever is lower, and domestic contractors
a 7-1/2 percent preference.
Yearly          Cumulative
Estimated Disbursements      Disbursements  Disbursements
(US$ '000)
FY 1976                   2,500
FY 1977                   4,150          6,650
FY 1978                   3,750         10,400
FY 1979                   4,400         14,800
FY 1980                   3,200          18,000
FY 1981                   3,000         21,000
Consultants:         To assist project management in organizing
a system of data collection retrieval and
analysis for purposes of continuously moni-
toring project progress and undertake annual
evaluation of project; to conduct studies
on livestock taxation and to prepare detailed
specifications for a survey and study of the
most efficient means of utilizing land cleared
of tsetse fly; and to propose further develop-
ment activity in the livestock field, includ-
ing appropriate feasibility studies.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Economic Rate
of Return:         11 percent.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:   June 30, 1982
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 127a-UNI dated October 9, 1974.



S  g ,,,,1 S  iy   2 '-  )-\-- )   N      G    E  R                               <     toVeWl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, -CHA
X        IX9k&H - ~~~~IW.          N    I   G   E   R NA ~ 
zLo. e Ch'xe
-r  2 l8RAbiCa* :ooo;Ovof/2/   _  4  )B  E N U E -P L Aw   ~  0  X  jDEVELOPMENT PROJECT   -
[ t .> (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~' . LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
Coono~~~~~~uLAGOS\ s8E k +                                                                                           .......PROET ARR
t   g   N 4 4   t   A  )(    W       9              O   RIlEQA2  _}-KoHsiEa  go
O           Gs, F      R                        -, IA- ;--  A
T                                [Ii                     0  00  '0  60A  A80 g00
-12~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                4



