Report No. 127a-UNI                                                                  FILE
Appraisal of Livestock                                                                             COpy
Development Project
Nigeria
October 9, 1974
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not ac(ept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CU1fENCY EQUIVALEThr
1/
1 Naira (N)        100 Kobo (K)    =   US$1.52
1 US$              100 Cents(/)    =   NO.658
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                  =             0.405 hectares (ha)
1 mile (mi)                  =             1.61  kilometers (km)
1 inch (in)                  =            25.64  millimeters (mm)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)         =             0.03  cubic meters (m3)
1 pound (lb)                 -           453.6   grams
1 hundredweight (cwt)                      112   pounds
1 long ton                   =           2,240 lb = 1.016 metric ton
1 gallon                     =             3.79  liters
1 pound                      =           0.4L54   kilogram
ABBREVIATIONS
FLD     Federal Livestock Department
FMANi=  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
HEU  =  Heavy Equinment Unit
LPU  =  Livestock Project Unit
NAB  -  Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NC State =  North Central State
NE State =  North Eastern State
NELC     =  North Eastern Livestock Company
NLPC     =  National Livestock Production Company
NW State =  North Western State
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
WLC      = Western Livestock Company
W State  =  Western State
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/ Since April 1, 1974 the Naira has floated independent of the U.S. dollar.
Twice weekly, the Central Bank sets buying and selling rates for the U.S.
dollar and L sterling. The Naira has appreciated steadily vis-a-vis the
U.S. dollar, and by July 1, 1974 the average quotation was N 1 = US$1.622
or 6.7 percent above the previous central rate of X 1 = US$1.32.  The
latter has been used for currency conversions throughout this report.



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................  i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION          ................................                   1
II.    BACKGROUND .................................1
A.   General .........................................                  1
B.   The Livestock Subsector .........................                  2
C.   Integration of Agriculture and Livestock .... ....                 5
D.   Credit for Livestock Production ....                .............  5
E.   Livestock Development Strategy ....                ..............  6
III.    THE PROJECT ......... .................................    7
A.    General .........          ................................       7
B.  Detailed Features .8... ..........   8
IV.    COSTS ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ...........   13
A.  Project Costs               ....................  13
B.    Proposed Financing  .........................    15
C.    Credit Arrangements  .........................    16
D.   Procurement ..           ..........................   17
E.  Disbursement               .....................  17
F.    Accounts and Audit .......................    18
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........             ..................    18
A.    General .........................................    18
B.    Livestock Project Unit ........            ..................    19
C.    Ranching Companies  ..........         ....................    20
D.    Smallholder Fattering Scheme ......             ..............   20
E.    Grazing Reserves  ............         ....................    20
F.    Nigerian Agricultural Bank ......             ................   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, in July/
August 1972, composed of Messrs. N.A. Worker and T.C. Tsui (Bank); and
F.L. Cockcroft, F. Blanc, E. de Smidt and C. Hopen (Consultants). Cost esti-
mates were updated as of early 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS ....  21
A.  Production .........      .............................  21
B.  Markets ...........     ..............................  21
C.   Cattle Prices ........     ...........................  22
D.   Producer Benefits .......      ........................  22
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS      .      ...    25
ANNEXES
1. The Agriculture and Livestock Subsectors
2. The Fulani and the Traditional Livestock Subsector
3. Cattle Health Situation
4. Livestock Supporting Services
5. Agricultural Credit
6. NELC Ranches
Table 1 - Darazo Ranch - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Bornu Ranch - Herd Projection
Table 3 - Darazo Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Bornu Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 5 - Darazo Ranch - Sales, Operating Expenses and
Livestock Purchases
Table 6 - Bornu Ranch - Sales, Operating Expenses and
Livestock Purchases
Table 7 - General Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
Table 8 - NELC Cash Flow
7. WLC Ranches
Table 1 - Ongoing Ranches - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Start-Up Ranches - Herd Projection
Table 3 - Ongoing Ranches - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Start-Up Ranches - Investment Costs
Table 5 - Ongoing Ranches - Sales, Operating Expenses and
Livestock Purchases
Table 6 - Start-Up Ranches - Sales, Operating Expenses and
Livestock Purchases
Table 7 - General Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
Table 8 - WLC Cash Flow
8. NLPC Fattening Ranches
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Costs
Table 3 - Sales, Operating Expenses and Livestock Purchases
Table 4 - General Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
Table 5 - NLPC Cash Flow



9. Private Breeding/Fattening Ranches
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Costs
Table 3 - Sales, Operating Expenses and Livestock Purchases
Table 4 - Cash Flow
10. Cattle Fattening by Smallholders
11.  Grazing Reserves
Table 1 - Fulani Graziers - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Fulani Graziers - Operating Expenses and Grazing Fees
Table 3 - Benefits of Fulani Grazing Reserves
Table 4 - Kukar Jangarai - Investment Costs
Table 5 - Kukar Jangarai - Operating Expenses, Grazing Fees
and Incremental Production
12. LPU Investment, Operating and Technical Service Costs
13. Research and Training Center (Mokwa) - Investment and Operating Expenses
14. Heavy Equipment Unit
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Income and Operating Expenses
15. Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
16. Project Cost Summary
17. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan
18. Terms of Reference of LPU Senior Staff
19. NAB Cash Flow from Project
20. Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Summary Rate of Return Calculation
MAP






NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMHMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project that would introduce improved
methods of beef cattle production in the Western, North Eastern and North
Central States of Nigeria. The beef cattle industry remains largely in
the hands of nomadic graziers and changes in the traditional methods are
necessary if productivity is to be significantly expanded. Domestic pro-
duction now supplies only about 70% of domestic consumption, the remainder
being met by imports. Demand has risen fast in recent years and is ex-
pected to double by 1980.
ii.       The proposed project would (a) establish or improve seven breed-
ing and two fattening ranches owned by Federal and State Government companies;
(b) provide credit and technical support for commercial farmers to establish
about 50 medium-sized breeding and fattening ranches and for up to 1,500
smallholders to take up fattening; (c) establish for about 1,500 nomadic
herdsmen and their families some 1,600 sq mi of grazing reserves, appropriately
equipped and staffed; (d) establish and carry out pasture improvement research
programs; and (e) provide training in beef cattle production for Government
employees, private ranchers, smallholders and herdsmen.
iii.      The project would provide the funds needed to build up breeding
herds totalling about 100,000 head, improve about 21,000 ac of pasture, build
100 dams for watering cattle, and construct 2,000 miles of roads and fire-
breaks.
iv.       A Livestock Project Unit (LPU) would be set up in the Federal Minis-
try of Agriculture and Natural Resources to coordinate project implementation
and to (a) prepare development plans for the Federal, State and privately owned
ranches; (b) operate, as agent for the Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB), the
credit scheme for beef cattle fattening by smallholders; (c) provide technical
supervision of borrowers for these ranches on behalf of NAB; (d) develop and
manage the grazing reserves; and (e) be directly responsible for training and
research and for pasture seed production. NAB would be the credit channel for
ranch development loans; loans to smallholders for cattle fattening would be
made by LPU on behalf of NAB. Consultants would be appointed to make regular
evaluations of project progress, and to carry out project-related studies.
v.        Total project cost is estimated at US$42.0 million over an investment
period of eight years. A Bank loan of US$21.0 million is proposed, which would
cover the project's foreign exchange costs which amount to 50% of project costs.
The remaining project costs would be financed as follows: Federal Government
14%, State Governments 19%, NAB 12% and private ranches and smallholders 5%.
vi.       The Borrower would be the Federal Government, and the loan would
be made for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of six years on
principal. The Bank loan, together with a Federal Government contribution



- ii -
of N 3.9 million (US$5.9 million), would be deployed as follows: the Borrower
would on-lend N 8.6 million (US$13.1 million) to NAB, which in turn would lend
to the ultimate borrowers at an appropriate interest rate varying between 5%
and 9-1/2%. Of the balance: N 1.1 million (US$1.7 million) would be passed
on to the North East and North Central States as grants in aid for its
development of the grazing reserves; N 4.4 million (US$6.7 million) would
meet the costs of the Livestock Project Unit; N 0.5 million (US$0.8 million)
would be invested as equity in the federally owned ranching company; and,
N 3.0 million (US$4.6 million) would remain to be allocated.
vii.      The procurement of vehicles, earthmoving and other equipment,
housing and fencing wire (US$4.7 million) would be by international competi-
tive bidding, for all contracts in excess of US$25,000.  Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the prevailing
customs duty whichever is lower; bids by eligible domestic contractors would
be allowed a preference of 7-1/2 percent. All other procurement of equipment
for the State-owned ranches (US$1.3 million) would be through locally adver-
tised competitive bidding procedures, except for small items which would be
purchased directly. Livestock purchases for the State-owned ranches (US$5.8
million) would not be subject to international competitive bidding because
the project requires cattle suited to local conditions that can only be
obtained through the traditional trading system in Nigeria or through Govern-
ment negotiated contracts. Participating private farmers and ranches would
be free to procure cattle, goods and services (US$10.7 million) through local
trading and commercial channels. The construction of on-ranch earth dams,
trucks and roads, firebreaks and land clearing (US$2.5 million) would be
carried out by the project's own Heavy Equipment Unit. Internationally recruited
staff and consultants (US$2.6 million) would be hired according to procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
viii.     At full development, which would be reached in the tenth year of
the project, incremental annual production would comprise about 4,200 t
carcass weight of beef (equivalent to some 4% of current domestic production);
about 11,000 breeding heifers and 700 breeding bulls, 75% of which would be
of the scarce trypano-tolerant N'Dama breed. The value of this production
would be of the order of US$10 million a year.
ix.       The economic rates of return from the direct investments in the
production components of the project are as follows: ranching companies
13% - 18%; private ranches 13%; and smallholder fatteners 15%. These rates
of return are before charging LPU costs; when these are taken into account,
the overall rate of return for the project is about 11%.
x.        The other benefits of the project would be varied and important.
The project would introduce modern techniques of livestock production and
train Nigerian stockmen, extension staff, and project managers in the use of
such techniques. Livestock credit facilities would be developed. The develop-
ment of grazing reserves and use of improved pastures should increase carrying
capacities, thereby helping to ease the confrontation between herdsmen and



- iii -
agriculturalists in the heavily populated areas of the north. The smallholder
cattle fattening component would provide a source of additional income by
integrating livestock into the traditional crop production system. Studies on
livestock taxation and development of land cleared of tsetse-fly sponsored by
the project may well set the stage for a better institutional framework for
livestock development and profitable investment in livestock production.
xi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 million.






NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria has asked for a Bank loan to
assist finance a beef cattle development project. Project preparation was
financed by the Bank and executed by a team of consultants in close
cooperation with Government officers. The project would be the first for
livestock development financed by the Bank in Nigeria, and only the third
for agriculture.  The first - Western State Cocoa (764-UNI) - is for plant-
ing and replanting cocoa. The cocoa loan became effective in late 1971 and
is proceeding satisfactorily. A second cocoa project was approved in June
1974; three rural development projects, and a rice project were recently
negotiated.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, in
July/August 1972, composed of Messrs. N. A. Worker and T. C. Tsui (Bank);
and F. L. Cockcroft, F. Blanc, E. de Smidt and C. Hopen (Consultants). Cost
estimates were updated as of early 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Nigeria is a federation of 12 states, each with a government re-
sponsible for the development of agriculture within its boundaries. The
country is large, covering approximately 350,000 sq mi, and has good access
to the sea. About one-half of the land can be classified as agricultural
land; and of this, about 50% is cultivated while the remainder is good
quality natural grassland. Climate is tropical; yearly rainfall varies from
over 100 in/yr in parts of the Niger Delta in the south to less than 20 in/yr
in the north, and there are well defined wet and dry seasons.
2.02      In 1972 official population estimate was about 68 million, with an
estimated annual growth of about 2.5%. The final results of a recent census
are not yet available, but the provisional tabulations of the census gave a
figure of about 80 million people. GNP per capita is about US$130. With
larger earnings from petroleum and other industries, the proportionate contri-
bution to GNP of agriculture is declining, and agricultural production is hardly
keeping pace with population increase.
2.03      Agriculture.  Agriculture makes a very important contribution to the
economy of Nigeria. More than 80% of the population live in rural areas and
some 70% are employed in agriculture. Nearly one-half of GDP comes from the
sector. Crop products account for some 80% of the total value of agricultural



- 2 -
output; livestock, fishing and forestrv account for 10%, 6% and 4%, respec-
tively (Annex 1). In the past, the emphasis of the Government's agricultural
development policy has been mainly directed toward increasing export crops
such as cotton and groundnuts (in the north), cocoa (in the south-west), and
oil palm and rubber (in the south-east). Well-organized marketing facilities
have been provided for these crops. By contrast, little has been done to
stimulate the production and marketing of other agricultural commodities.
Food crop production is mostly based on a traditional pattern in which the
farmer's first objective is to grow food for himself and his family, with
surplus production, if any, being sold for cash in the village. Farms are
small and often fragmented, and typically vary between one and seven acres.
IThile a variety of food crops are grown throughout the country, cereal pro-
duction predominates in the north while root crops such as yam and cassava
are more commonly grown in the south. Because food crop production has his-
torically been identified with subsistence type farming, and because efficient
marketing channels have not been organized, there has been little incentive
for the individual farmer to increase production beyond local needs. However,
with increasing urbanization the market for food crops is growing rapidly and
prices are increasing. Given these circumstances, the time appears ripe for
projects aimed at improving the production and productivity of food crop
farmers, and the Bank Group is actively engaged in preparing such projects in
both the north and south.
B. The Livestock Subsector
2.04      Nigeria has some 11 million beef cattle, 30 million sheep and goats,
and 70 million poultry. Except for a highly commercialized and modern poultry
industry serving the main urban centers, and apart from better disease con-
trol, the subsector has remained unchanged for at least a century. Govern-
ment has recently accorded high priority to livestock development, stimulated
by the rapid rise of beef prices in recent years and the fact that domestic
production meets only about 70% of consumption. Increased population and
imiproved living standards will further intensify demand, and increase prices,
and the need for imports (para. 6.02).
2.05      The Traditional Producer.  The national herd of mainly Zebu-type
animals is owned almost entirely by nomadic and semi-nomadic graziers, most
of whom are Fulani and Kanuri living in the six northern states (Annex 2).
The distribution of cattle is governed by the incidence of the tsetse-fly,
which restricts most of the national herd to the Sudan Zone in the north;
during the dry season, there is a southward movement in search of water and
pasture.
2.06      Traditional livestock owners are not market-oriented, nor are they
efficient cattle producers by modern standards.  Calving rates are low (40-
50%), mortality is relatively high (10 to 20% for calves and 4-10% for adults),
and growth to slaughter maturity slow (4-5 years). The use of modern production



- 3-.
inputs, such as improved veterinary hygiene and nutrition, fenaing, fertili-
zers, and supplementary feeds, is minimal.  Changes are essential if the tra-
ditional herdsmen are to survive in an age in which grazing areas are being
reduced by competition from crop farmers. As an initial step, Government has
decided that the graziers and their herds must be encouraged to become more
sedentary; in pursuit of this policy, a large-scale tsetse-fly eradication
program is being financed with Federal funds. MTe land so freed is being
settled, partly by nomadic herdsmen, under provisions of the 1965 Grazing
Reserves Act, which permits Government to set aside land foir the exclusive
use of nomadic graziers.
2.07      Animal Health is the responsibility of the Veterinary Divisions of
the State Ministries of Agriculture. Rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuro-
pneumonia, worm infestation, trypanosomiasis, and cutaneous streptothricosis
are the principal diseases; the importance of these and other diseases and
their control are described in Annex 3.  All but the latter two diseases are
more or less effectively controlled. Trypanosomiasis is probably the most
serious disease and Government is making efforts to eradicate the vector.
Cutaneous streptothricosis is widespread and especially severe in humid south-
ern areas.  Zebu stock is very susceptible, but the N'Dama and Muturu breeds
have high resistance. There is no proven treatment and control is through
regular inspection and isolation; however, promising results are being ob-
tained in the development of a vaccine.
2.08      The overall nutritional situation is difficult, and energy, protein,
mineral and vitamin deficiencies all occur in traditional herds, especially
during the dry seasorf and the beginning of the rainy season.
2.09      Land Tenure.  With insignificant exceptions, land is communally
owned and administered by traditional leaders and family heads who, with the
concurrence of local governments, grant rights of usufruct. Normally, such
rights cannot be sold or transferred.  Federal and State Government can ac-
quire land for essential purposes on payment of compensation for improvements,
including standing crops, and legal mechanisms exist under which commercial
enterprises can lease land for agricultural development projects.
2.10      The nomadic grazier, however, has no established land rights under
the traditional system; he usually receives permission to graze his cattle
on common land not in agricultural use, and, in the dry season, on fapm land
where his animals consume crop residues. Unfortunately, with population anO
land pressures intensifying, the grazing areas are diminishing.
2.11       Taxation.  Nomadic producers are subject to a standard cattle tax
(Jangali) of N 0.75 for each adult animal.  Local Government Authorities
usually retain part of the revenue and pass the balance to other local and State
institutions. Jangali is very unpopular with graziers, who employ various
ruses to avoid paying; it is estimated that only 50-60% of the tax is collect-
ed. The dislike of Jangali makes an accurate national cattle census impossible;
and measures to enforce tax collection make it difficult for official agencies,
such as extension services, to work with the graziers. However, it appears
impossible to abandon Jangali in the short run in view of its importance as a



-4-
revenue source. The present per head tax collection system is nonetheless
a constraint on improving the traditional livestock industry and, under the
project, studies would be made of alternatives to Jangali (para. 3.21).
2.12      Livestock Supporting Services (Annex 4).  The organization of live-
stock services varies from State to State.'In the north, animal health and
production are jointly the responsibility of the Veterinary Divisions of the
State Ministries. In the south, Veterinary Divisions deal with animal health
and the Agriculture Divisions with livestock production. In terms of staff,
most divisions, whether veterinary or agriculture, appear numerically adequate;
but animal production work generally lacks a practical approach.
2.13      In 1965, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(FMANR) was created to coordinate all natural resources development at the
national level.  The Federal Livestock Department (FLD) is one of the six
departments comprising FMANR and has four divisions. The Tsetse and Trypano-
somiasis Division, established for over 20 years, is well-staffed, well-equipped
and effective. It is responsible for the National Tsetse Clearance Program,
which is aimed at eradicating the fly from 100,000 sq mi in the Sudan, sub-
Sudan and northern Guinea zones. To date, about 35,000 sq mi have been cleared,
and the Program is expected to continue for another 15 years. The Planning
Division exists only on paper, although.it is expected to be staffed shortly.
The Veterinary Public and Animal Health Division is an advisory and regulatory
body concerned with meat hygiene and animal health. The Federal Leather Insti-
tute is concerned with research and advice on hides' and skins' processing.
2.14      Tle Federal Livestock and Meat Authority, set up in 1969 and
incorporated as a federal body in 1971, has wide terms of reference that
encompass livestock production, trade, slaughter, processing and marketing.
Staffing and management difficulties, and its inheritance of several uneco-
nomic commercial enterprises, have caused financial difficulties.
2.15      Extension Services.  The effectiveness of extension work with cattle
owners leaves much to be desired, particularly in the north. In comparison,
animal health services are effective and major diseases are generally under
control. Apart from strengthening animal production work, State ministries
need to gain experience in pasture improvement and range management.
2.16      Research.  The physical facilities for agricultural research gen-
erally are verv adequate. Research in livestock is undertaken principally
bv Federal agencies and the universities (Annex 4). A general criticism is
that nmst research is insufficiently directed towards the solution of prac-
tical problems, although a notable exception is the Institute of Agricultural
Research at Ahmadu Bello University.
2.17      Education and Tralnin.  Degree level training in veterinary science
is offered at the Ibadan and Ahmadu Bello Universities. These two Universi-
ties as well as Ife and Nsukka also provide degree courses in agriculture.
At present, some 40 veterinarians and 100 agriculturalists qualify each year,
a substantial output. A two-year diploma course in animal health is offered
at the Federal Veterinary School, Vom, and there is a similar course for
agricultural technicians at Akure, Ibadan, Samaru, Kabba and Umadike. About
50 veterinary and 300 agricultural technicians receive the diploma each year,



- 5 -
and their quality is acceptable. It is clear, however, that emphasis needs
to be given to encouraging practical attitudes toward problem-solving if
Nigeria is to make the best use of its agricultural potential.
C. Integration of Agriculture and Livestock
2.18      With few exceptions, crop and livestock production are now separate
industries. In the northern states, the only linkages between the two are
the grazing of cattle and sheep on crop residues in the dry season, and the
use of draught oxen by some farmers.  In the south, because of tsetse, commer-
cial livestock production is restricted to poultry, which is usually main-
tained under intensive battery conditions. Integration of crops and grazing
animals would bring major benefits to the agriculture sector, including the
diversification of farm production, with forage and feed grown specifically
for livestock, better utilization of crop residtues and by-products, and im-
provement of soil fertility by animal wastes and crop/pasture rotation. Un-
fortunately, the pace of such integration will be slow: in the heavily pop-
ulated northern areas, the amount of land available for grazing animals is
very limited, and the acquisition of such land is beyond the capacity of the
majority of farmers.  In these areas, the first objective should be ration-
alization of the existing system of grazin,; stock 'm crop residues in the
dry season, to bring greater benefits to the farmer; a smallholder fattening
scheme is thus included in the proposed project (para. 3.11). Another con-
straint to integrated livestock development in the north is that tsetse-free
areas that are not heavily populated generally are too dry for crop produc-
tion. The greatest potential exists in the very sparsely populated tsetse-
infested areas further south, where until now human and livestock populations
have been limited by the fly. In these relatively good rainfall areas, a
close integration of livestock and cropping should be possible, provided
the tsetse-fly is controlled.  Little has been done so far to determine the
most economical use of land cleared of tsetse-flies, and a study is urgently
required.  Such study, involving the determination of land use patterns, and
infrastructure and organizational requirements, would require the connitment
of considerable planning skills which are not yet available in Nigeria.  For
this reason the proposed project provides for consultants to undertake this
work (para. 3.21).
D. Credit for Livestock Production
9.19      Commercial bank lending for agriculture is less than 2% of total
outstandings, and this lending is mostly to farmers of substantial means
for short-term cropping requirements and to well-secured cattlemen for
trading purposes. Attempts to organize institutional credit - through
regional and state credit agencies and cooperatives - have been largely
unsuccessful (Annex 5). Traditional sources of credit for farmers and



- 6 -
livestock producers are private moneylenders. These meet short-term needs;
medium or long-term capital investments in agriculture have been minimal so
far.
2.20      Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB).  To provide a credit channel for
agricultural development, Government has established the NAB and is providing
necessary funds for its operations. UNDP/SF is financing the costs of the
NAB management team for the first three years, and the Bank is executing
agency. NAB, whose head office is in Kaduna, would be the credit channel for
the project.
E. Livestock Development Strategy
2.21      The main objective of Government's livestock development strategy
is to reduce Nigeria's large meat imports (para 6.02) through increasing
domestic production. This will require the introduction of more efficient
production techniques and an intensification of Government's tsetse eradica-
tion programs, as national production has almost reached its full potential
under the extensive production systems practiced by most beef producers
(para 2.05 and 2.06). Against this background Government plans to:
(a)  help farmers to take up beef production using modern
and relatively intensive techniques;
(b)  open up new grazing areas through tsetse-fly eradication;
and
(c)  provide incentives for nomadic graziers to settle and to
enter the market economy.
2.22      The main obstacle to intensifying beef production in the private
sector is the very limited experience of both producers and Government agencies
in modern systems of pasture and cattle management.  Thus before sponsoring
private sector development on any major scale, Government needs to better
acquaint itself with the technical problems involved, to test and establish
technically and economically viable production techniques, and to train its
livestock development planning and extension staff in the methods to be trans-
ferred to the private sector. To achieve the above, Government plans to develop
State-owned ranches in the country's principal cattle raising areas which would
test, and subsequently demonstr2t:, improved animal production methods and in
addition produce substantial numbers of high quality breeding stock, which im-
portantly would include cattle of the trypano-tolerant N'Dama breed, which would
be available for sale to the private sector.
2.23      In the field of tsetse eradication, Nigeria has carried out success-
fully a major program over the last 20 years in the high grazing potential
areas of the Sudan and northern Guinea zones. Government intends to continue
the eradication program for another 15 years (paras. 2.13 and 2.18) and to clear



-7 -
another 65,000 sq mi. This program is fully justified as present grazing
areas are already overgrazed, and their extent is being diminished through
occupation by farmers. Consequently, the creation of additional grazing
land is essential. The project appraised in this report would not be involved
directly in tsetse eradication; the Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Division of the
Federal Livestock Department has this well in hand.  However, as in the past
little attention has been paid to the development of tsetse cleared areas, a
study on the most efficient means of exploiting land cleared of tsetse would
constitute part of the project.
2.24      The bulk of the country's cattle are owned by nomadic and semi-
nomadic graziers.  Changes in the outlook and way of life of these people are
essential if better use is to be made of Nigeria's cattle and land resources,
and if the standard of living of the nomads is to be raised. Experience in
how to effect such changes has been obtained in East Africa where groups of
pastoralists have been encouraged to settle and use modern grazing methods under
the inducement of exclusive rights to the use of range and water resources.
It is expected that the provision of clear grazing rights combined with
technical assistance would give pastoralists the incentive to settle, to
improve their production methods, and to increase their cattle sales. The
development of grazing reserves to provide such facilities would be a com-
ponent of the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      The project would promote improved methods of beef cattle production
by nomadic and semi-nomadic graziers, small near-subsistence farmers, larger
commercial farmers, and the public sector. It would include the introduction
and improvement of research, training, support services for farmers and
graziers, and the production of breeding stock for future livestock develop-
ment programs. Principal components of the project would be:
(a)  establishing a Livestock Project Unit (LPU) in the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources to carry out
the project;
(b)  establishing or improving seven breeding ranches;
(c)  improving two fattening ranches;
(d)  providing credit and technical support to about 50 commercial
farmers and settled Fulani to establish breeding/fattening
ranches;
(e)  providing credit and technical assistance under a pilot scheme
for up to 1,500 smallholders to take up beef cattle fattening;



- 8 -
(f)  establishing 1,600 sq mi of grazing reserves, and improving
the existing 300,000 ac Kukar Jangarai Reserve in North
Central (NC) State;
(S-) carrying out pasture improvement researclh; establishing a
-ilot pasture seed production scheme; and providing train-
ing facilities for government officials, farmers and herds-
;en in practical cattle and pasture management;
(h)  establishing a pool of heavy equipment for project land
development, and road and dam construction activities; and
(i)  emploving consultants to evaluate the project on a regular
basis, to conduct appropriate studies, and to prepare fur-
ther stages of the national beef cattle program.
.22       Thc project would be carried out over an eight-year period with
tlie first year being devoted to staff recruitment and preparatory work.
Organizational features are discussed in Clapter V.
B. Detailed Features
3.03      Breeding_Ranches (Anne-es 6 and 7; Mlap).  Of the seven breeding
ranches, two, Bornu and Darazo (60,000 and 2,500 ac respectively), are located
in and owTned by North Eastern (NE) State and operated by the State Ministry of
igriculture. The remaining five, Upper Ogun, Akuna, Ogboro, Oke Ako and
Ibalrapa, are in Western (1X) State, and each extends to about 24,000 ac. Upper
Ogun is owned and operated by the Western State Development Corporation, a
wholly owned State company; Akuna, Ogboro, Oke Ako, and Ibarapa are owned by
tile 1%7 State M4inistry of Agriculture. Under the project, two new companies
*would be created:  a NE Livestock Company (NELC), owned by NE State, to take
over Bornu and Darazo, and a Western Livestock Company (WLC), wholly owned by
KIState, to take over the other five ranches (para. 5.04).  The principal
objective of the breediTng ranches would be the profitable production of breed-
ing stock for sale to the private sector.  The ranches would also undertake
sore fattening through the purchase of feeder steers in order to make use of
the heavy pasture growth of the wet season.
3.04      7The Bornu and Darazo ranches are easily accessible and have benefited
fror extensive bush clearing, fencing, and water development.  However, both
ranches operate at a loss. Under tne project, stocking rates would be increas-
ed through developing 1,500 and 300 ac of improved pasture at Bornu and Darazo
respectively and through improved management of natural pastures.  The herds
would be developed over project years (PY) 2-6 by the purchase of in-calf
heifers and cows of local Zebu breeds. Although soils and topography are good,
botlh ranches are in low rainfall areas (about 24 in), and the seven months dry
season is long and hot; consequently, provision would be made for supplementary
dry season feeding. It is estinmated that with the above measures the ranches
would be in full production by PY 7/8, whereafter annual sales would total
some 4,500 head, compared with 230 head now.



3.05      The Upper Ogun and Akuna ranches have adequately sized herds, areas
of cleared land, some fencing and improved pastures, water facilities and
buildings. Ogboro, Oke Ako and Ibarapa, however, are essentially undeveloped
and have no stock; and Ibarapa still has to be delineated. Major investments
at Upper Ogun and Akuna would be in pasture improvement, 1,500 ac at each in
PY 2-4, and some improvement to infrastructure. Investments at the other
three ranches, in addition to stock purchases, would be for development of
infrastructure, firebreaks and water, and for establishment of 1,500 ac of
improved pasture at each ranch during the development period.
3.06      The five Western State ranches are located in areas of high tsetse-
fly challenge.  Thus, while conditions for pasture growth are superior to those
in the north, development is constrained by the availability of trypano-
tolerant cattle. Some 6,000 cows and heifers and 350 bulls would be required
in PY 2-6 to stock each of the Ogboro, Oke Ako and Ibarapa ranches. Animals
of the N'Dama breed would be the first choice because of their proven tolerance
to trn.panosomiasis and streptothricosis (para 2.07), and their general ability
to do well in the area. Since there is a limited number of N'Dama in Nigeria,
it is envisaged that animals would be imported from other countries such as
Guinea and Mali; it is recognized, however, these countries may find it dif-
ficult to supply sufficient cattle to meet the need of the project during the
first years. As an alternative, animals of the Keteku breed, which are
available in sufficient number in Nigeria, could be used for grading up with
N'Dama bulls; the experience with this crossbreeding is satisfactory in
Nigeria. Assuming that stock availability is not a constraint, the five
Western State ranches are estimated to turn off some 19,000 animals annually
by PY 12/13, of which almost 7,000 would be heifers and 500 would be bulls
suitable for sale to private farmers for breeding purposes.   It would be a
condition of disbursement that the annual investment program for the Western
State ranches would be in line with the availability of breeding stock.
3.07       Fattening Ranches (Annex 8).  Two existing fattening ranches would
be further developed:  Manchok (6,000 ac in NC State) and Molkwa (12,000 ac
in mW State).  Initial development of Manchok and Mokwa was carried out,
respectivelv, under USAID and Federal German Covernment assistance programs
which are now phased out. Both programs made considerable fixed investment
in the ranches and initiated intensive cattle fattening operations on a small
scale, essentially feed lots. However, the financial results of these opera-
tions were disappointing; experience has shown that neither the feed market
nor the cattle market is sufficiently developed in Nigeria to justify intensive
fattening metlhods. Yet, these ranches are readily accessible, enjoy adequate
rainfall (50-60 in/yr) and acceptable soil type and topography, and possess
excellent potential for development as grassland fattening units. In fact,
limited pasture trials on the ranches have shown conclusively that high-
yielding improved pastures can be profitably established. Therefore, the
natural follow-up is the organization of the Mokwa and Manchok ranches into
commercial fattening operations based on improved pastures and modern methods



- 10 -
of cattle and pasture management. These ranches would be operated by the
Federal Government-owned National Livestock Production Company (NLPC), which
would be created under the project.
3.08      The two ranches would be developed as finishing operations to pro-
vide fat cattle for the abattoir at Mokwa, and for the Kafanchan and Kaduna
markets. Feeder steers would be purchased and fattened on about a 6-months
cycle. Investments, which would be phased over PY 2-4, would be in pasture
improvement, water development, stockhandling facilities, fencing, firebreaks,
roads, vehicles and equipment. On each ranch 1,500 ac of improved pasture
would be established. At full development (PY 4), total throughput of the
two ranches would be about 10,000 head annually in contrast to about 3,000
animals fattened in 1972.
3.09      Private Ranches (Annex 9).  To help sponsor privately owned breeding/
fattening operations, credit and technical services would be provided to about
30 individuals involved in farming and cattle trading. About 25 of these
would be in W State, and 25 in the NE State of whom about five would be
Fulani in the 1iubi area. About 30 ranches would be initiated in PY 2, and
10 each in PY 3 and 4. The size of individual operations would vary, but it
is estimated that an average ranch would cover about 2,400 ac and be stocked
withl about 100 AU 1/ before development. Project-financed development would
involve the provision of fencing, water supplies, and firebreaks needed to
allow better utilization of natural pastures.  Furthermore, limited areas of
improved pasture would be established.
3.10      To stock the ranches, in-calf cows or heifers would be purchased
in PY 2-5, and steers for fattening in PY 2-7 to make the best use of avail-
able forage. N'Dama cattle would be purchased to stock W State ranches, and
1i e Fulani or Gudali cattle for NE State ranches.
3.1t      Smallholders (Annex 10).  Credit would be offered to up to 1,500
:iv_uals -- ab,out 1,000 in NE State and about 500 in NC State -- mostly
s'W-llo1Uers but including some butchers an(d cattle traders to enable them to
e in fattening beef cattle.  Crop residues, mill by-products, and surplus
'o.all- produced feeding stuffs would be used as feed. Such fattening present-
lx is fairly widespread, although not very efficient, tlhroughout the north of
Nigeria. The principal objective of the project would be to demonstrate more
efficient methods.
3.12      Participants would be individuals of good standing in the coimnunity
able to conform with NAB creditworthiness criteria, who would be prepared to
construct the simple facilities needed for confining and feeding the animals,
and wlho would have sufficient family labor to care for the stock.  Plans for
individual operations would be prepared by LPU technicians and would include
a financial schedule showing the composition and phasing of investments and
expenditures. Credit would be supplied in kind by LPU as feeder steers,
1i/ An Animal Unit (AU) is defined as a weaned bovine.



veterinary supnlies and feed. LPU would also be responsible for providing
subborrowers with technical and marketing assistance. At full development
in PY 6, it is expected thaat some 7,500 animals annually would be fattened
under the scheme.
3.13       Grazing Reserves (Annex 11).  A total of 1,600 sq mi of new grazing
reserves would be established -- about 1,500 sq mi in NE State and about 100
sq mi in NC State -- to allow the most efficient utilization of natural grass-
land by traditional graziers. The reserves would be accessible areas of
good quality grassland, freed of tsetse-flies under the National Program (para.
2.13).  T1e land would be acquired and1 declared as Grazing Reserves by the
State Governments, and this would be a condition of loan disbursement against
expenditures incurred in the grazing reserve subproject.  The reserves wvould
be developed in units of 100 sq ml each, with four units being completed in
PY 2, seven units in PY 3, and five in PY 4. Principal investments would
be in firebreaks and roads, water development, stockhandling facilities, and
accommodation and transport for Range Development Officers --  one of whom,
with his staff, would be responsible for managing a unit.  Stocking rates
would be carefully supervised to ensure that overgrazing does not occur.
In addition to grazing privileges, graziers using the reserves would be
provided with dipping facilities and drugs and vaccines for their cattle;
initially, they would pay a nominal annual fee of N 0.5/AU (para. 6.07).
3.14      A similar grazing reserve program in NE State financed by UISAID
in the last decade has had only partial success. The basic problem has
been poor cooperation by some herdsmen and consequent overgrazing.  Hlow-
ever, it is believed that adequately staffed reserve management teams, as
would be introduced under the project, should enable better cooperation with
the lierdsmeni.  In order to achieve effective grazing control, NE and NC States
would delegate to each Aange Development Officer the power to enforce matters
stuch as graziiig rights, grazing rotation and destocking (para. 5.06); such
powers would be exercised whenever possible through traditional authorities.
3.15       Thle Kukar Jangarai Reserve in MC State is an established 300,000 ac
-razing reserve.  Under the project, 1,500 ac of improved pasture and necessary
:issociated fencing would be established in PY 2-4 to demonstrate tne feasibil-
u,o- prading carrying capacity (Annex 11).  Presently the reserve carries
a-out 40J.000 animlals ir. the wet and 6 ,000 animals in the dry seasons; and it
:ias reacliec! its nroduction potential under current pasture conditions.  Graz-
iers with access to improved pasture would be provided also with dipping
facilities and other veterinary services and would be charged a monthly
grazin-; fee of I: 0.2/AU.
3.16       Improved Pas tures, Applied Research, and Trainr in,.  Competition is
acute between crop farmers and cattle herders for land in the Northern States



- 12 -
(para. 2.10). This competition can be alleviated by increasing the stocking
rates of grazing areas in these densely populated zones through introducing
improved pastures, and better pasture management methods including the use
of phosphate fertilizers to encourage legume growth. Pasture improvement
also offers an opportunity for integrating cattle breeding and crop farming
by small farmers. The basis of any program of improved pasture development
must be the testing of pasture species and varieties potentially suited for
Nigerian conditions. The importation of seeds of grass and legume cultivars
proven under conditions similar to Nigeria would be undertaken both for
planting on project ranches and farms and for testing at Mokwa. Principal
importations would be varieties of Panicum maximum, Cenchrus ciliaries,
Setaria sphacelata, Centrosema pubescens, Phaseolus acutifolius and Dolichos
lablab. To ensure future seed supplies, LPU would operate a seed production
section on the Bornu ranch.
3.17      A program of applied research is needed to solve the problems of
developing an efficient pastoral industry. Apart from tsetse-fly control,
constraints include the high costs of bush clearing and land preparation, and
lack of experience in pasture management and in animal management itself. No
studies have been made of suitable livestock farming systems, or of the pos-
sibilities of integrating the pasture-animal complex into the traditional
shifting cultivation of the bush-fallow system. There is an urgent need for
work in these areas, and, under the project, an appropriate research program
would be initiated at the Mokwa ranch (Annex 13).
3.18      Better training in practical land and cattle management is also
needed, and under the project a training center would be established at Mokwa,
with an outstation at the W State Livestock Station at Fashola.  The center
would provide two-year courses, beginning in PY 2, that would emphasize grass-
land and animal production, animal health, farm management and production
economics. The course would be practical in nature to enable trainees to
manage commercial breeding and fattening operations in both the private and
public sectors and to qualify as livestock extension agents. The center would
also provide short courses for farmers and herdsmen. In addition, the project
would provide 16 man-years of overseas training for selected agricultural and
veterinary graduates to learn techniques of modern grassland and animal pro-
duction in suitable countries.
3.19      Within six months of loan effectiveness the Federal Government
would provide the Bank with satisfactory details of the land, buildings and
equipment at Mokwa that would be transferred to LPU; the Bank has obtained
appropriate assurances to this effect during negotiations.
3.20      Heavy Equipment Unit (Annex 14).  The development of ranches and
grazing reserves would require the construction of about 100 earth dams and



- 13 -
some 2,000 mi of firebreaks and internal tracks and roads. These are rudi-
mentary civil works which do not require elaborate engineering design and
which are generally carried out by ranch personnel and equipment in countries
with a well-established ranching tradition. It is the Bank's judgment, how-
ever, that providing the ranches and grazing reserves with capability to carry
out these works would raise serious questions of training and maintenance. In
addition, it is unlikely that the services of private contractors could be
secured: first because custom work is not a well-established practice in the
rural areas of Nigeria and second, owing to the fact that the works would
be dispersed, individually small, located in remote areas and phased over
several years, civil work contractors would not be attracted. Therefore, to
ensure that the amount of work planned under the project would be achieved
on time and with good standards, the project would provide for a 1leavy Equip-
ment Unit (KEU) to be established within LPU to procure and operate the
necessary equipment.  The unit would consist of a full range of tractors,
vehicles and equipment necessary to undertake all the major development work
called for in the project. HIost of this work would be undertaken in PY 2-4;
for this reason, there would be some machine time available in PY 5 and 6 for
hire to private farmers and others outside the project. HEU would be led by
an experienced engineer who would be responsible, inter alia, for the training
of the operating and maintenance staff.
3.21      Consultants.  About 10 man-months of consultant time would be employed
to assist project management in organizing a system of data collection, re-
trieval and analysis for the purposes of continuously monitoring project pro-
gress and to undertake annual evaluations of the project. The consultants
would report their findings to the Permanent Secretary, FMANR, and to NAB for
those aspects of the project that NAB finances. Tue large number of separate
project components fully justifies such a periodical "technical audit". Con-
sultants would also be employed (about 40 man-months) to conduct studies on
livestock taxation (para 2.11), and to prepare detailed specifications for a
survey and study of the most efficient means of utilizing land cleared of the
tsetse-flies (para. 2.18), and to propose further development activity in the
livestock field including appropriate feasibility studies. Outline terms of
reference for the studies are set out in Annex 15. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that suitable consultants would be recruited inter-
nationally and that their qualifications and experience, terms of reference
and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Project costs over the investment period of eight years are esti-
mated to total N 27.6 million (US$42.0 million) with a foreign exchange ele-
ment of N 13.7 million (US$20.8 million) or 50%. Project costs are detailed
in Annex 16 and summarized in the following table:



- 14 -
Summoary Prolect Cost Estimates
- --_-_-_- -N'00 -----------                    -   US$S000 ---------              .% of
Local       For.ine      Tocta           Local      Foreign       Total          Total Cost          Foreign Eachange
NELC
Infrastructure and equipment                            174          231         405             265         351          616                -57
Breeding cattle                                         293           -          293             445           -          445
Iscramental fattening cattle                           252           190         442             383         269          672                -
Working capital                                         496          233         729             754          354        1108                -                     32
Subtotal                                     1.215          654       1,869            1 847         994       2.841                7
WLC
Infrastructure and equipment                            875          910       1,785           1,330       1,383        2,713                -                     Sl
Breading cattle                                          84        1,588       1,672             128       2,414        2,542                -95
Incrementtl fatteniog cattle                            607          458       1,065             923         696        1.619                                      43
Working capital                                       1,452        1,015       2,417           2,124       1,538       3,662                -                      42
Sobtotal                                      2,968       3,971       8.939           4,505       6,021       10,536               20                     57
ILPCLI
Infrastructure and equipment                           312           351         663             474         534       1,008                 -                     53
Working capital                                         351          151         502             534          229         763                                      30
Subtotal                                       663          502       1J165           1 008          763       1.771                4                     13
Private Ranchers
Infrastructure and equipment                            932          675       1,607           1,417       1,026        2,443                -                     42
Breeding cattle                                         993          916       1,909           1,509       1,392        2,901                _                     48
1ecremental fattening cattle                           452           341         793             687         518        1,205                -43
Working capital                                         387          213         600              588         324         912                -35
Technical Services                                       27           -           27               41          -                             -4
Subtotal                                     2,791        2.145       4J936           4,242       3L260        7.502               18                     43
Smallholder Fattenera
Incremental fattening cattle                            470          355         825             714         540        1,254                -                     43
Sscremental feed                                        210           -          210             319           -          319                -
Technical Services                                       71           -           71             108           -          108               -
Subrotal                                       751          355       1,106          1i141           540       1.681                4                     32
Grasin Rfese-ves
Fulani - Infrastructure and equipment                  450           368         818             684         559       1,243                 -                     45
- Other development empenses                  1,072          285       1,357           1,630          433       2,063                -                     21
Kutkr  Iangarsi - Ontrastructure and equipment          130          104         242             210          158         3td                -                     43
- Other development eoponaes           126           40         166              191          61         252                -                     24
Subtotal                                     1,786          797       2.583           2.715        1211       3_926                9                     31
Po-lect Adninistration  and Centrel Services
LPU - Vehicles and equipment                              9          144         153              14         219          233                -                     94
Salaries and wages                               589          721       1,310              895       1,096       1,991                _                     55
Other empeoses                                   190           47         237              289          71         360                -                     20
Consultants                                       -           312         312               -          474         474                -                    100
Seed multiplication                               45            20         65               68          30          98                -                     31
Overseas trainiog                                 -             96         96               -          146         146                -                    100
Heavy Equipment Unit
Machinery and equip.eot                           55        1,045       1.100               84       1,588       1,672                -                      95
Working capitalM                                  92          108         200              140         164         304                -                     54
Research and training
infrastructure and equipmont                      76           57         133              116          87         203                -                     43
Salaries and wager                               216          312         528              328         474         802                -                     59
Other expenses                                   239           64         303              363          97         460                -                     21
Subtotal                                     1,511       2926        4.437           2,297       4.446        6.743               16                     66
Toto1 Project Cost Before Price ContinSency                11,685       11,350      23,035           17,755      17,245      35,000                -                     50
Price C-otimgencyL3                                         2,265        2,340       4,605            3,445       3,555       7,000               17                     50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                         13_950       13.690        27 640        21i200       20.800      42.000              100                     5
fL   Purchase of steers for fattening would be financed by reasonal bhnk overdrafts und subprojects.  Maximm overdraft requirements would build up to about
w 800,000 in PY 5 and 6 snd would decline thereafter (Annex 8).
f2 Estiated needs to cover about 6 months operating enpenses
/3   Sic percent per year crepottrndsd years 1-8.  The pWsical contingencies are included in each inrestment category and shown separate2y in the respetfl aDnexes.
December 14, 1973



- 15 -
4.02      Project costs are based on recent experience in Nigeria and in-
clude a physical contingency equivalent to 10% of estimated costs, a price
contingency of 6% compounded annually on both local and foreign costs.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The Federal Government; the Bank; the NAB; the Western, North
Eastern and North Central State Governments; and private individuals are
expected to participate in financing the project in line with the following
table:
State     Federal
Govern-    Govern-
Private   ment        ment     NAB   IBRD   Total
_________- ---US$ millions --------------
NELC                          -      0.90         -      0.48    1.46   2.84
WLC                           -      3.11         -       1.86    5.56  10.53
NLPC                          -       -          0.97    0.16    0.64   1.77
Private Ranches              1.80    0.10         -       1.40    4.20   7.50
Smallholder Fatteners       0.08    0.15          -      0.34    1.11   1.68
Grazing Reserves
Fulani                 0.15    1.95        0.61      -       0.61   3.32
Kukar Jangarai         0.04    0.18         0.20     -       0.20   0.62
Project Administration and
Central Services        -        -          2.94     -       3.80   6.74
Subtotal               2.07    6.39        4.72    4.24   17.58  35.00
Unallocated                  0.03    1.51        1.18    0.86    3.42   7.00
Total                        2.10    7.90        5.90    5.10   21.00  42.00
%                             5       19          14       12     50      100
4.04      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$21.0 million be made to Gov-
ernment for a term of 20 years including a grace period of six years for
principal. Consequently, the Bank loan would be disbursed before the proj-
ect was completed. However costs in PY 7 and PY 8 would be small -- about
N 770,000 and N 350,000 respectively -- and the principal expenditure items
in these two years would not lend themselves to Bank disbursement. During
negotiations assurance was obtained from the Federal Government that it would
cause all funds required for PY 7 and 8 to be made available. The Bank loan
together with a Federal Government contribution of N 3.9 million (US$5.9
million) would be deployed as follows:
a.   N 8.6 million (US$13.1 million) would be on-lent to NAB
at the same interest rate as the Bank loan for a term of
16 years including six years grace for principal; these



- 16 -
funds together with NAB's own contribution of N 3.4 million
(US$5.1 million) would be used for further on-lending to
ranching companies and private farmers and ranchers (paras.
4.07 and 4.08);
b.   N 1.1 million (US$1.7 million) would be passed on to NE
and NC States as grants in aid to cover grazing reserve
investment costs in line with Government's policy of grant-
ing financial support to the states for high priority de-
velopment;
c.   N 4.4 million (US$6.7 million) would be used to meet costs
incurred by FMANR in administering the project, and pro-
viding services;
d.   N 0.5 million (US$0.8 million) would be invested as equity
in NLPC; and
e.   N 3.0 million (US$4.6 million) would be held as a contin-
gency reserve.
4.05      The State Government contributions to project costs would be con-
tributions to the equity of the state ranching companies, N 0.6 million (US$0.9
million) and N 2.0 million (US$3.1 million) in the cases of NE State and W State
respectively; and the direct and indirect costs of state employees seconded
to LPU for administration of the smallholder fattening scheme, private ranches
and grazing reserve subprojects. The contributions of private individuals
would be principally their share of private ranch and smallholder fattening
investment costs, about 25% and 5% respectively. Beneficiaries of the grazing
reserve subproject would make a small contribution to project costs through
the payment of grazing fees.
4.06      A condition of loan effectiveness would be the execution and deliv-
ery on the part of the Borrower of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement
with NAB.
C. Credit Arrangements
4.07      The terms of NAB subloans to the state ranching companies, NLPC and
private ranchers would be between 13 and 15 years, including a grace of 3 to
5 years for principal, at an appropriate interest rate varying between 5% and
9-1/2%. The subloans would be granted only on the basis of LPU recommenda-
tions (para 5.01). In the case of state ranches, NAB loans would be guaran-
teed by the respective Governments. NLPC operations would have additional
financial needs in the form of seasonal credit for feeder steer purchases,
which would be provided through overdraft facilities with either NAB or pri-
vate banks. Such overdrafts would reach a maximum of about N 800,000 (US$1.2
million) in PY 5 and 6 and would decline progressively thereafter.



- 17 -
4.08      Credit to smallholders would be supplied in kind by LPU, on behalf
of NAB for a term of up to 12 months at an appropriate interest rate varying
between 5% and 9-1/2%. LPU would meet the cost of these inputs from a re-
volving account which NAB would establish with a deposit of N 200,000 to
cover estimated PY 1 requirements. LPU would collect 5% of the cost of in-
puts from smallholders upon delivery of such inputs and the balance of the
cost with interest would be recovered following sale of stock. The proceeds
of these collections would be returned to the revolving account by LPU.
Credit agreements between participants and LPU on behalf of NAB would specify,
inter alia, that each farmer would carry out fattening operations in accordance
with technical advice provided by LPU, and would sell his fat cattle at a
time and through channels prescribed by LPU. During negotiations, IBRD re-
ceived assurances that the procedures, terms and conditions of NAB sublending
would be satisfactory to IBRD, and that NAB would submit for IBRD approval,
no later than five months after loan effectiveness, proforma subloan agreements
for the State ranching companies, private ranchers and smallholders.
D. Procurement
4.09      The procurement of vehicles, earthmoving and other equipment, hous-
ing and fencing wire (US$4.7 million) would be by international competitive
bidding, for all contracts in excess of US$25,000. Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the prevailing customs
duty whichever is lower; bids by eligible domestic contractors would be al-
lowed a preference of 7-1/2 percent. All other procurement of equipment for
the State-owned ranches (US$1.3 million) would be through locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures, except for small items which would be pur-
chased directly. Livestock purchases for the State-owned ranches (US$5.8
million) would not be subject to international competitive bidding because the
project requires cattle suited to local conditions that can only be obtained
through the traditional trading system in Nigeria or through Government nego-
tiated contracts. Participating private farmers and ranches would be free to
procure cattle, goods and services (US$10.7 million) through local trading
and commercial channels. The construction of on-ranch earth dams, trucks and
roads, firebreaks and land clearing (US$2.5 million) would be carried out by
HEU (para. 3.20). Internationally recruited staff and consultants (US$2.6
million) would be hired according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
E. Disbursement
4.10      The Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:  (a) 75% of subloans dis-
bursed by NAB to NELC, WLC, and private ranchers for fixed investments and
cattle, (b) 85% of subloans disbursed by NAB to NLPC for fixed investment, (c)
75% of annual incremental disbursements made from NAB's smallholder fatteners
revolving fund, (d) 50% of Federal Government grants to the NE and NC States
for fixed investments in the Grazing Reserves, (e) 100% of the cost of expa-
triate personnel and consultants, and (f) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85%



- 18 -
of total expenditures for vehicles, equipment and machinery for Project Admin-
istration and Central Services. Disbursements against NAB subloans would be
made against certificate of expenditures, the documentation of which is not
to be submitted for review, but is to be retained by the Federal Government
and is to be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision missions. Estimated disbursements on a quarterly basis are shown
in Annex 17.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.11      The accounts of NLPC, NELC, and WLC would be maintained by their
respective managements. Accounts for other components of the project would
be maintained by LPU, whose Project Accountant would also advise the ranching
companies on their accounting systems. Individual credit accounts for private
borrowers would be maintained by NAB. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that: (a) LPU, the ranching companies and NAB would maintain
accounting systems, in accordance with sound, consistently applied principles;
and that in particular, the ranching companies would maintain separate ac-
counts for each ranch; and (b) all project accounts referred to above would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that
certified copies of the audited accounts, together with the auditors' reports,
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each finan-
cial year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      The project's organization would be complex due to Federal/State
interrelationships. The basic concept would be, however, that in the eight-
year project investment period, the FMANR would play the leading role through
the medium of LPU, created within its Livestock Division. For the ranches
owned by Federal and State companies, LPU would provide detailed ranch devel-
opment plans, and on behalf of NAB would supervise their development and
operational progress. Disbursement of NAB loan funds to the ranching com-
panies would be conditional upon satisfactory reports by LPU, and such provi-
sion would be made in the subsidiary loan agreements between NAB and the
ranching companies (para. 4.07). In the case of private ranchers and smallholder
fatteners, LPU would assume direct responsibility for the technical appraisal
of potential participants, for the preparation of development plans, and for
technical supervision of individuals receiving loans from NAB (para. 4.07).
Disbursement of NAB loans to private farmers and ranchers would be conditional
upon satisfactory reports by LPU; and, in the case of smallholder fatteners,
LPU would have more direct control since it would disburse loans on NAB's
behalf (para. 3.12). In each State participating in the private sector
components of the project, the State Government would second to LPU the staff



- 19 -
needed for such work and would meet their direct and indirect costs. These
staff would be responsible directly to LPU. The Federal and States Govern-
ments would arrange for the secondment of staff to LPU to carry out the
private ranch and smallholders project components. These arrangements
would remain throughout the life of the project and would have the objective
of training state employees in the management of such operations.  With the
same objective and during the project development period, LPU would develop
and manage for NE and NC States the Grazing Reserves established under the
project, employing staff who would be seconded from the State Governments.
For research and training, LPU would be directly responsible for operations
at Mokwa and Fashola and would make the final selection of trainees sent over-
seas. LPU would be responsible also for the operation of the seed production
unit at the Bornu Ranch. It is anticipated that at the end of the develop-
ment period LPU would hand over its research and training functions to the
regular services of the Federal Livestock Department (FLD).
B. Livestock Project Unit
5.02      LPU would be headquartered at Kaduna and be headed by a Project
Manager, who would be a specialist in tropical grassland and cattle manage-
ment.  The Project Manager would be administratively responsible to the
Director of FLD, but LPU would enjoy a high degree of technical and financial
autonomy. During negotiations assurances were obtained for the establishment
of LPU under an administrative structure acceptable to IBRD. The establish-
ment of LPU would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Two Deputy
Project Managers would be employed by LPU, with responsibilities for Northern
and Western States' activities respectively, with the latter stationed at
Ibadan. Other key operational staff would include a Project Accountant,
Ranch Planner, three Ranch Technical Officers, one of whom would supervise
the smallholder fattening scheme, and a Chief for the Heavy Equipment Unit.
Terms of reference for senior LPU staff are at Annex 18. All the foregoing
staff would be recruited internationally; in view of the shortage of
experienced personnel in Nigeria it is possible that Nigerians would fill only
the posts of Deputy Project Managers and Accountant. Six Nigerian agri-
cultural graduates would complete LPU's operational staff; these graduates
would be regular employees of FLD and would have specific responsibilities.
5.03      For its research and training functions based at Mokwa, LPU would
employ, through international recruitment, a Livestock Production Specialist
as Officer in Charge, and two Research Officers, one specialized in tropical
pastures and the other in land development. These specialists would be as-
sisted by six Nigerian agricultural or veterinary graduates who would be reg-
ular employees of FLD. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Federal Government that appointees to key positions in LPU would be
filled by persons with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
A condition of loan effectiveness would be appointment of the Project Manager'
and two Deputy Project Managers of LPU.



- 20 -
C. Ranching Companies
5.04      The three ranching companies would be owned wholly, initially at
least, by the Federal (para. 3.07), NE State and W State Governments (para.
3.03) respectively. A condition of effectiveness would be the establishment of
the three companies. The policy of the three companies would be determined by
boards whose chairmen would be the General Managers of the companies; these
General Managers would be responsible for day-to-day operations. To keep over-
heads to a minimum and to clearly define accountability, each ranch would be
autonomous within the frame of annual budgets, work programs and operational
procedures approved by the company boards. This autonomy would extend to
day-to-day management, junior staff appointments, accounting, procurement, and
sales. Persons appointed to the posts of ranch managers and ranch bookkeepers
would be recommended by the General Managers and be approved by the company
boards and by NAB.
D. Smallholder Fattening Scheme
5.05      LPU would manage the pilot smallholder fattening scheme (para 3.12)
until such time as operational techniques and procedures are proven, when, if
agreed by the Bank and Federal Government, full responsibility would be trans-
ferred to NE State. The scheme would be staffed by NE and NC State MANR em-
ployees working under one of the LPU Ranch Technical Officers.
E. Grazing Reserves
5.06      Similar management arrangements as for smallholders would be used
for the grazing reserve component of the project except for the Kukar Jangarai
reserve which would substantially continue under its management. Thus, NE and
NC States would employ the 16 range development officers and support staff
needed to manage the scheme and second these to LPU. Details of the opera-
tional procedures of the Grazing Reserve Scheme are in Annex 2. In regard to
the Kukar Jangarai Reserve, arrangements between LPU and NC State would specify
that the latter would assign appropriate staff and would permit LPU to manage
the scheme.



- 21 -
F. Nigerian Agricultural Bank
5.07      NAB would take the final decision on each request for financing made
to it although its decisions would be influenced by the technical advice that
would be given by LPU. NAB would assign an adequate number of loan officers
and clerical staff who would be attached to the smallholder fattening scheme,
and to LPU to be responsible for determining the creditworthiness of poten-
tial participants in the private ranching scheme. During negotiations, as-
surances were obtained from NAB that this additional staff would be appointed
and that appropriate arrangements would be made for their accommodation and
transportation.
VI. PRODIJCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
6.01      Project output would consist of fat cattle, feeder steers and
breeding cattle. Approximate full development would be in PY 10. At that
time, the incremental annual beef output would be about 4,200 m ton carcass-
weight, equivalent to about 4% of 1970 domestic production and worth about
N 4.2 million (US$6.4 million). The project would also contribute about 11,000
breeding heifers and 700 breeding bulls annually valued at N 2.3 million
(USS3.5 million) for further expansion of the national herd; about 75% of
this cattle would be of the scarce trypano-tolerant N'Dama breed. Total
annual incremental value of production due to the project at PY 10 would be
about N 6.5 million (US$9.9 million). The aggregate herd of all breeding
units participating under the project would have increased by about 65,000 AU
valued at N 11.0 million (US$16.7 million).
B. Markets
6.02      Market Outlook.  Cattle produced under the project would be sold
domestically. The market outlook is good. The rapid population increase,
urbanization, increase in per capita incomes, destruction of livestock re-
sources during the civil war, repeated droughts during the last 5 years, in-
creasing encroachment of crop farming upon pasture land, and stiffer competi-
tion with other meat and livestock importing countries have all helped to
cause beef demand to outpace supply. Consequently, between 1967 and 1973
beef prices in Lagos increased 70 to 100%, and indications are that this trend
will continue. Beef consumption in Nigeria is estimated to increase between
6 and 8% per annum over the next 10-15 years -- thus doubling in 12 years --
and to approximate 1.9 million head per annum by 1980 (about 270,000 tons of
carcass meat) and 2.5 million head per annum by 1985 (about 357,000 tons of
carcass meat). With increasing shortages in Cameroon, Dahomey, Togo, Ghana



- 22 -
and Ivory Coast, and increasing internal demand in Niger and Chad -- the
traditional cattle suppliers of Nigeria -- Nigeria is likely to find it in-
creasingly difficult to increase its imports above recent levels of 250-
3?0,000 head of cattle per annum (about 40,000 tons of carcass meat). Thus
project output (para 6.01) would be absorbed comfortably by the domestic
market. Breeding stock produced by the project (11,000 heifers and 700
bulls per annum) are expected to find a ready market in the private sector
and future Government livestock development projects.
6.03      Market Facilities and Procedures.  Cattle markets exist in all
major towns and in many of the smaller ones, but most are little more than
meeting places for sellers and buyers and lack even simple facilities such
as scales. Auctions are not held and dealings are made individually on an
estimated weight basis. Limited as they may be, these markets provide cattle
producers with a dependable outlet within easy access. Major cities like
Kaduna, Mokwa, Maiduguri, Nguru and Bauchi have modern slaughterhouses with
processing and chilling capacities of 20 to 30 animals per hour, but they
generally operate well below capacity. The small municipal abattoirs, which
handle 90% of all slaughterings in Nigeria, consist of simple concrete slabs.
It is estimated that existing capacity can handle at least a 50% increase in
throughput. Thus the available cattle marketing and processing facilities
are adequate for the project.
C. Cattle Prices
6.04      The spread between producer prices and those received by traders
at southern markets is broad, reflecting in part the considerable risks taken
by traders in moving live cattle over many hundreds of miles. The current
minimum ruling price in southern markets is N 0.28/lb (0.43 US$/lb) liveweight;
thus, 700-800 lb steers delivered in Lagos or Ibadan sell at N 195-225 (US$295
to 340) each. Further North, however, where the project areas are located,
producer prices for 700-800 lb steers range between N 160-180, about N 0.225
per lb liveweight. Size and weight, assessed by eye, determine price; age,
sex, quality are of far lesser importance. Calculations in this report are
based on the assumption that all cattle for slaughter or fattening would be
sold at N 0.225 per lb liveweight. This can be considered a conservative
approach in the light of the prevailing market outlook (para. 6.02).
D. Producer Benefits
6.05      Financial benefits accruing to the three ranching companies and
private ranchers are satisfactory and are estimated as follows:



- 23 -
Cash Balance After Debt Service         Financial
Full Develop-       Before      Full Develop-                   Rate of
ment          Development        ment        Increment        Return
(PY)          (-----------------N----------------)
NLPC            6           (44,000)          14,000         58,000           18%
NELC            8           (59,000)          46,000        105,000           14%
WLC            12            15,000          341,000        326,000           13%
Private
Ranchers      9                800            8,200          7,400           13%
An average smallholder fattening five head of cattle annually under the
project would achieve an incremental net income of about N 67 which is sub-
stantial if judged against average family incomes in the rural sector of
about N 125 per annum. More detailed information on financial returns can
be found in Annexes 6-10.
6.06      Financial benefits to individual Fulani graziers utilizing the
Grazing Reserves developed or improved under the project are more difficult
to quantify because of variation in herd size and the complexity of owner-
ship. However, assuming that each family shares the overall benefits of
development in proportion to the size of its herd, the growth in family in-
comes can be approximated. As Annex 11, Table 3 shows, the value of total
offtake from herds using project developed reserves would improve from
about N 23,000 before development to N 41,000 per unit (64,000 ac) in PY 10,
equivalent to a compound rate of growth of 8%, which would also be the average
annual income growth of a participating family. Income prospects would not,
however, be the sole nor necessarily the most important inducement for Fulanis
to participate in the project; it is probable that the security of tenure
offered by the project would be as great an inducement as the cash rewards.
6.07      The ranching companies, private ranchers and smallholder fatteners
would pay ultimately the full costs of developing their respective operations.
Exceptions would be the costs of technical assistance provided by LPU and the
State MANR. These costs would be borne by the Federal and State Governments
as is the case for all routine extension activities in Nigeria. Graziers,
on the other hand, would pay fees covering only a small part of the devel-
opment and recurrent costs of the grazing reserves and would enjoy a sub-
stantial subsidy from Federal and State Governments. This is considered
justified for what would be the pioneering phase of a much larger grazing
reserve program aimed at settling a significant proportion of the country's
nomadic graziers. Consequently the fees to be charged under the project
would be sufficient to establish the principle that the use of improved
land must be paid for, but not too high to discourage participation. The
twin problems of the graziers' ability and willingness to pay fees would
be studied in detail in the course of preparing the second phase livestock
project with the objective of establishing equitable and enforceable fee
levels.



- 24 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would be the first major step taken by the Federal
and State Governments to develop Nigeria's large potential for grassland
beef production and to reap the reward from past investments in animal
disease control and livestock-related research and training. As such the
project would have large and widespread but unquantifiable benefits which
cannot be taken into account in calculating its economic rate of return.
This is unfortunate, since these unquantifiable benefits are of far greater
value to Nigeria than the direct production generated by the project.
7.02      The project's direct benefits would be the project induced beef
and breeding stock production (para 6.01). On the basis of these benefits
the economic rates of return from investment in the directly productive com-
ponent subprojects are estimated as follows: NLPC, 18%; NELC, 14%; WLC, 13%;
private ranches 13%; and smallholder fatteners 15%. The return from invest-
ment in the pilot grazing areas to be developed under the project is difficult
to quantify, howqever, and would depend on the rate at which nomads settle
and begin to produce cattle for the purpose of sale rather than of increas-
ing herd numbers. At this time it is not possible to speculate how quickly,
or to what extent, this will happen; this component of the project is designed
to provide information of this type for use in formulating future policy. The
overall rate of return to the project, without taking into consideration the
grazing reserves and training component, but including the costs of the Federal
Government Livestock Development Unit, is estimated at about 11% (Annex 20).
7.03      The major unquantifiable benefits are:  (a) the development of a
source of improved breeding stock, especially of trypano-tolerant breeds;
(b) the demonstration on a practical scale of the use of improved pastures;
(c) the initiation of the private sector into modern systems of cattle pro-
duction; (d) the rationalization of development of land freed from tsetse infes-
tation; (e) the mobilization of trained Nigerian veterinarians and agricultur-
alists to work on a major livestock development program; (f) the demonstration
of the feasibility of integrating livestock and crop farming at the small
farmer level; and (g) the development of techniques for settling nomadic
graziers and inducing them to adopt controlled grazing methods.
7.04      Most aspects of the project, while not new, involve the employment
on a significant scale of systems and methods that so far have been employed
in Nigeria only on a very restricted scale. Consequently, the project can be
classified as a large scale pilot project, with the objective of determining
the most efficient means of combining proven technology with the particular
demands of the Nigerian situation.
7.05      The direct social benefits of the project such as the creation
of new employment opportunities are not large: it is estimated that the
project would induce additional employment equivalent to about 900 man-years.
On the other hand the project would help solve problems of pressing social
concern. One of these is the increasing confrontation between herdsmen and



- 25 -
agriculturalists in the heavily populated areas of the north; this vould be
relieved by the development of grazing reserves of the type to be established
under the project, and by the increased use of improved pastures with their
higher productive capacity. A related problem is to increase farm incomes in
these same heavily populated areas. The integration of livestock and crop
production would be attempted through the project's smallholder beef fatten-
ing component. A third problem of pervasive importance is that of cattle
taxation, and hopefully solutions to this would emerge from studies that
would be financed under the project.
7.06      The project represents a logical development from the past work
carried out with beef cattle in Nigeria. Without the impetus that would be
created by the project, it is likely that few positive changes would emerge
in the beef cattle sector over the next several years.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were received on the following
principal points:
(a) procedures, terms and conditions of NAB sublending would be
satisfactory to IBRD, and NAB would submit for IBRD approval,
no later than five months after loan effectiveness, proforma sub-
loan agreements for the State ranching companies, private ranchers
and smallholders (para. 4.08); and
(b) key staff positions in LPU would be filled by persons witn experience
and qualifications acceptable to IBRD (para. 5.03).
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would include:
(a) the execution and delivery on the part of the Borrower of a satis-
factory subsidiary loan agreement with NAB (para. 4.06);
(b)  the establishment of LPU (para. 5.02) and the NLPC, NELC and WLC
(para. 5.04); and
(c) the appointment of the Project Manager and two Deputy Project
Managers of LPU (para. 5.03).
In addition, a condition of loan effectiveness would be that IBRD had received
satisfactory assurances on the part of NC, NE, and W States with resDect to
the carrying out of the project, including the secondment of staff,



- Zb -
8.03      Conditions of disbursement of the funds earmarked for the U State
breeding ranches and the NE and NC States grazing reserves would be that:
(a) satisfactory arrangements had been made for the procurement of
suitable cattle for the W State breeding ranches (para. 3.06); and
(b) NE and NC States had acquired areas as grazing reserves satisfact-
ory to IBRD (para. 3.13).
8.04      The project is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$21.0 million on
standard terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
The Agriculture and Livestock Subsectors
A. General
1.        Nigeria is situated in Western Africa between longitudes 2?507 anc
14040' East and latitudes 4020' and 13050' North. It borders on the Atlantic
Ocean in the South and shares common land boundaries with Dahomey, Niger and
Cameroon. Administratively, the country is divided into 12 states, each starte
government being responsible for development of agriculture within its boundaries.
The total area of the country is approximately 356,000 sq mi. The land for
the most part is flat, rising from the low-lying coastal plains in the south
to an altitude of 2,000 ft, in the north. Over 93% of the total area lies
below 2,000 ft, and, apart from a limited 5,000-6,000 ft plateau area in the
North-Central State and some rangelands along the Cameroon border, the topo-
graphy has few distinguishing features.
2.        Just over one-half of the land in Nigeria is classified as agri-
cultural land. Of this about 45% is cultivated and 55% is in good quality
natural grassland. Of the land not considered suitable for agriculture, the
greater part is savanna grassland and forest. The majority of soils are
ferruginous tropical soils. Ferrasols, lithosols and alluvial soils are also
fairly common. For the most part, Nigerian soils are classified as free-
draining and of medium to low fertility.
3.        There is a wide range of climatic and vegetative zones.  The cllr.
is tropical, with temperatures for the most part ranging between 650F ancd 9.7-I
Rainfall varies from over 100 in/yr in parts of the south to less than 20 in!yr
in the north. In most areas there are well defined wet and dry seasons. The
wet season extends from about April to November in the south and May to October
in the north. Humidity also varies greatly with latitude, being extreme at
times in the south and moderate for the most part in the north.
4.        The official population estimate of Nigeria is 68 million, with a
growth of approximately 2.5% p.a.
B. Agricultural Sector
5.        Agriculture makes a very important contribution to the economy of
Nigeria. More than 80% of the population live in rural areas and some 70,'
are employed in agriculture. Less than 50% of GDP comes from the sector.
Crop products account for some 80% of the total value of agricultural output



ANNEX 1
Page 2
with livestock, fishing and forestry accounting for some 10%, 6% and 4%
respectively. Present CNP per capita is estimated at about US$130. The
low per capita reflects both the predominance and low productivity of
Nigerian agriculture. Value added per worker is estimated at US$ 195 in
agriculture, as compared with US$ 513 in industry.
6.        Governnent emphasis on development of the agricultural sector in the
past has been mainly directed toward increasing export crops such as cotton
and groundnut (in the north), cocoa (in the southwest) and oil palm and rubber
(in the southeast). The provision of well-organized marketing facilities for
these crops by Government has been a noteworthy feature of development strategy.
D,v contrast, little has been done to stimulate the production and marketing
of other agricultural commodities. Food crop production is for the most part
based on a traditional subsistence pattern in which the farmer's first objec-
tive is to grow food for himself and his family, with surplus production, if
any, being sold for cash in the village. Farms are small and often fragmented,
and typically vary between one and seven acres. While there is considerable
diversification in food crop production throughout the country, cereal prod-
uction predominates in the north while root crops such as yam and cassava are
more commonly grown in the south. Because food crop production has histori-
cally been identified with subsistence type farming, and because efficient
marketing channels have not been organized, there has been little incentive
for the individual farmer to increase production beyond local needs.
7.        In its Second National Development Plan (1970-74), Government places
high priority on development of agriculture, although only some 13% of public
sector capital investments are allocated to the sector (Table 1). The plan
.lys down the following broad objectives:  (a)  ensuring adequate food supplies;
(b)  expanding export crops; (c)   producing raw materials for local indus-
tries; (d) increasing employment opportunities in rural areas; and (e)
strengthening institutional and administrative infrastructure.  During the
first two years, investments made under the Plan have been considerably less
than projected. The main problem appears to be the sector's limited capacity
to plan and execute programs; and there appears to be little likelihood that
Cie situation might improve in the iTmediate future.  Agricultural growth
through 1975 is likely to be very small.
C. Livestock
S.        Introduction.  In comparison with cropping the livestock subsector
is relatively small. However, Government has recently accorded high priority
to expanding livestock numbers and particularly to expanding and modernizing
its cattle industry. Government action in this respect is prompted by the
fact that present beef production meets only 70% of the country's needs. This
deficit is met by importing both processed meat and live cattle at considerable
foreign exchange cost. In addition, Government has now come to realize that
its cattle herd is a valuable national asset, capable of considerable expan-
sion, and a means for developing extensive areas of the country unsuitable
Lor agricultural production.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        Livestock products account for some 10% of total agricultural prod-
uction. Some 650,000 to 700,000 domestic cattle and 250,000 to 300,000
imported cattle pass through organized market channels each year. Sales of
local cattle represent a marketed offtake of 8-9% of the national herd, which
is variously estimated at around 10 million head.
10.       The Traditional Producer.  The national herd of mainly Zebu-type
animals is owned almost entirely by nomadic livestock owners, the largest
proportion of whom are either Fulani, Kanuri or Shuwa located in the six
northern states. The distribution of cattle is a function of tsetse-fly
incidence. The largest concentration of cattle is in the Sudan Zone in the
north, with seasonal movement south (into the sub-Sudan and Guinea Zones)
during the dry season.
11.       Cattle farming is undertaken on only a very limited scale in the
southern states due to the high incidence of tsetse-fly infestation. Total
cattle in the south number only about 200,000. The small and scattered herds
are restricted to the N'Dama, Keteku and Muturu breeds which possess good
tolerance to trypanosomiasis. Cattle of other breeds seen in the south are
invariably trade cattle being trekked from the north to Lagos, Ibadan, Port
Hiarcourt, and other southern market centers.
12.       Traditional livestock owners of the north are not market-oriented,
having little apparent desire to sell their livestock. They prefer to see the
herd grow in number, regarding it as a source of pride and security for them-
selves and for future generations. They are not large beef-eaters and seldom
kill cattle for food; rather they relish milk and value their animals more for
dairying ability than for beef production. Milk is sold wherever there is a
market, and income from milk sales is the main source of cash for day-to-dav
needs. The material requirements of the Fulani are extremely modest and,
apart from culling animals for extreme old age, it is only under pressing
circumstances such as the necessity to pay head tax or crop damage fines,
that they dispose of their stock.
13.       While the nomadic herdsmen regard the herd as all-important and
devote their lives to ensuring its well-being, they are not by modern standards
efficient cattle producers. Calving rates are low (40-50% is common), mortal-
ity of stock is relatively high (up to 20% in calves and up to 10% in adults)
and growth to maturity is slow (4-5 years). Nomadism works both for and
against the herd. It works for it in the sense that, under the harsh conditions
that exist, the best available grass is sought in areas of lowest tsetse chal-
lenge. It works against it in that the nomadic habit precludes the application
of modern production concepts (e.g. improved veterinary hygiene and nutrition,
fencing, fertilizers and supplementary feeds), which have proved so success-
ful elsewhere in raising livestock productivity. The traditional herdsmen has
learned to cope in the face of high odds. However, if he is to survive, let
alone expand, in an age in which settlement is continually reducing grazing
areas, a change in traditional ways is necessary. Government has decided
that, in order to modernize and expand the Nigerian cattle industry, the
cattlemen and their herds, or at least a large part of them, must be encour-
aged to become more sedentary.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.       Marketing.  Cattle marketing in Nigeria is controlled by a well-
organized chain of private traders in the north. These traders operate at
several different levels, ranging from those who buy a few animals from
producers in the bush to those who assemble and dispatch several hundred
animals per year to southern markets. Once assembled, trade cattle are
shipped either locally or interstate for immediate slaughter. There are no
organized intermediate fattening operations, although there appears to be
no obvious reason why this should be; the establishment of such enterprises
should be encouraged in order to ensure better finish and higher weights of
slaughter cattle. Cattle are moved on foot (about 55%), by rail (about 30%),
and motor lorry (some 15%). Rates of mortality and shrinkage are significant
in all transported cattle; highest losses are experienced by trek cattle.
15.       Taking into account the time and trouble involved in assembling
cattle for shipment and the losses and risks associated with movements over
large distances, there can be a considerable spread between prices received
by producers in the north and those received by traders at southern market
outlets. The minimum ruling price in southern markets is currently N 0.28/lb
liveweight. Thus 700-800 lb steers landed in Lagos or Ibadan are worth N195-
225 each. The price received in the north by the producer of such steers will
depend on his location, proximity to alternative municipal markets and other
factors, but would be expected to be of the order of N 160-180 each. Size
and weight (invariably assessed by eye) are the key determinants of price;
factors such as age, sex and quality are of lesser importance.
16.       Slaughtering is undertaken throughout the country in facilities of
various types. These range from crude slab systems, which are by far the
most common, to modern plants with processing and chilling capabilities. There
is considerable idle capacity in most plants, which can be called upon to meet
any increases in throughput likely in the foreseeable future.
17.       Land Tenure.  Traditionally, land in Nigeria has been communally
owned and administered in trust by family or civic heads with the concurrence
of local Government Authorities. Customary Laws governing land allocation
vary throughout the country, but in general they all confer rights of occu-
pation and use allowing the individual or the group to settle and cultivate
the land for a stipulated period.  Such rights cannot normally be sold or
exchanged between individuals. Federal and State Governments can acquire
land for essential purposes on payment of compensation to the traditional
owners. Lease of such land can be arranged by nationals for periods up to
99 years. Private companies, both national and expatriate, can acquire land
on a leasehold basis from Government.
18.       While the farmer prepared to settle and crop the land is reasonably
well catered for under customary practice, the nomadic grazier has few land
rights, either traditional or legal. Consequently, as population increases
and cropping activities intensify, traditional grazing areas are reduced.
Government is conscious of this problem and, under the Grazing Reserves Law
of 1965, has set aside numerous areas for exclusive use by nomadic graziers.
Areas so reserved, however, are proving insufficient and their administration



ANNEX 1
Page 5
in some instances is causing difficulties. Government currently is redoubling
its efforts in this direction and its attempts to make more land available for
grazing under the National Tsetse Clearance Program are evidence of its concern
for the problem. Government's intention is to encourage an orderly development
of cleared areas and to ensure a balance between cropping, grazing and forestry.
With respect to development of the livestock subsector in particular, Govern-
ment hopes to reduce grazing pressure in the more overgrazed areas of the
north by providing permanent grazing reserves and facilities for settlement
in the wetter areas to the south. Unfortunately, due to shortage of staff
to plan and supervise the work, controlled development of the areas being
cleared of tsetse-fly has not taken place so far. In fact, the surveying and
gazetting of lands for use solely as grazing reserves has fallen behind schedule
and cleared areas are being settled in a haphazard fashion, with the majority
of land being taken up by crop farmers. The net effect is to aggravate the
state of tension which exists between agriculturist and pastoralist.
19.       Taxation.  Historically, nomadic producers have been liable to some
form of taxation in the districts through which they travelled with their
cattle. At the present time throughout Northern Nigeria this takes the form
of a standard annual head tax of N 0.75 per adult animal. The tax is known
locally as 'Jangali'. It is collected by the local Government Authority (LGA)
which retains a portion of the revenue and passes the balance to other state
institutions. The distribution of the tax varies from state to state. In
one northern state it is subdivided as follows: LGA 30%; State Government
25%; Local Education Authority 25%; Area Development Board 20%. In another
state LGA retains 75% and passes 25% to the State Government.
20.       Jangali is unpopular with livestock producers and they do everything
to avoid it. An obvious way is to prevent a true count of their cattle being
made, and to this end every conceivable ruse is employed. The deception is
comparatively successful as it is recognized officially that only 50-60% of
revenues due are collected. This conflict also produces serious side effects.
For example, accurate national cattle figures are impossible to obtain when
the make-up of individual herds is so distorted. Again, measures taken to
enforce tax collection make the Fulani suspicious and withdrawn and hence
very difficult to work with from an extension point of view. There is no
doubt such reactions greatly prejudiced the success of the several USAID
efforts to establish viable group ranching schemes throughout northern Nigeria
in the 1960's.
21.       Attempts have been made to have the tax revoked.  But since it
represents an important revenue source for LGA, state governments and other
local bodies, its presence must be accepted until the alternatives can be
studied.
22.       Elements of Strategy.  Any attempts to improve cattle management
and production must aim at maintaining and improving the offtake from the
traditional herd as well as developing new intensive methods of production.
As a first step, more rational exploitation of areas being cleared of tsetse-



ANNEX 1
Page 6
fly by the National Program has to be achieved. At the same time, the economic
feasibility of improved methods of production, particularly under commercial
ranching conditions, must be demonstrated. The major problems to be overcome
in such undertakings are expected to be political and administrative rather
than technical and economic.
23.       The National Tsetse Clearance Program has already eradicated flies from
some 35,000 sq mi in the north and the program provides for the clearance of an
additional 65,000 sq mi during the next 15 years. Obviously, this will result
in a substantial increase in available grazing which will support a considerably
expanded traditional herd. However, it will be some years before this is
translated into an increased offtake of cattle for slaughter.  Under the
present system of livestock management, the rate at which the herd can be
expanded is relatively slow (some 2% per year) because of low fertility and
high mortality rates. Efforts must be made to increase the rate of herd
build-up by better nutrition, veterinary hygiene and general management. Such
improvements can only be expected to come about slowly and depend on a more
direct dialogue with Fulani producers, the development of well controlled
grazing reserves, and the introduction of improved extensive ranching techniques
through demonstration and extension. At the same time efforts must be made
to encourage the establishment and expansion of beef production in the non
traditional subsector. There is mounting interest among farmers in more
diversified farming systems involving integration of cropping with livestock
and grassland production. More practical research needs to be undertaken on
such combinations, and increased emphasis must be given to evolving systems
applicable to the various ecological zones of the country. The lead must be
taken by Government.
24.       In the short term, a measure which could have a far reaching impact
on beef supplies is the fattening of cattle now marketed in poor condition from
the traditional herds. Almost without exception cattle are now slaughtered at
weights well below their mature potential because almost no effort is made to
market them in finished condition. There are no well established intermediate
tattening operations between grazing areas and terminal markets.  There are no
obvious technical or economic reasons why animals now slaughtered should not
be at least 100 lb heavier on the average -- yielding some 25,000 tons of
additional carcass weight per year for little extra investment, time and trouble.
Studies and demonstration of such possibilities are urgently needed in order
to prevent further squandering of such a valuable resource. The little
'fattening" that is now done is relatively ineffective, usually being based
on an arrangement between livestock traders and individuals who hold cattle
on crop residues and feed some by-products such as cottonseed and bran.
The program is carried out without extension assistance or veterinary control
and can be regarded at best as a holding rather than a fattening operation.
Fattening of cattle on improved pastures near terminal markets in the north
and south represents an attractive possibility, although there could be problems
in the south related to the susceptibility of northern cattle to trypanosomiasis
and streptothricosis. Control of the former through drug treatment appears
reasonably assured, but much further work is required to ensure protection
against the latter. Studies along these lines and those suggested above are
obviously needed and must be given priority in any program to modernize and
expand Nigeria's beef cattle industry.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Table 1.   SECOND NIATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Annual % Real
Public Sector       Increase in Gross
Capital Investment   Domestic Product
(N Million) % total          %
Agriculture         265.4        13          1.8
Transport           485.2        24          3.0
Mlining               5.2         -         37.0
Industry            172.2         8         14.3
Education           277.8        14           6.0
All other           845.0        41          4.1
Total Plan  2,050.8       100           6.2
Source:  Second National Development Plan, Chapter 27,
Table 5 and Chapter 6, Table 7.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
The Fulani and the Traditional Livestock Sub-Sector
A. Introduction
1.         The six northern states contain approximately 90% of Nigeria's cattle
population, estimated at around 10 million head. The Fulani, an ethnic group
with their own language and culture have been herd-owners for many centuries.
It is estinated that they own some 85% of the total cattle in Nigeria, the
balance being held by Kanuri and Shuwa peoples whose system of management and
way of life do not differ appreciably from the Fulani. Historically the
Fulani have been a neglected society and as a small minority (approximately
3% of the total population of the northern states) in a harsh physical environ-
ment, mere survival has long been a constant challenge. Thus, psychologically
and in their value system they have been uniquely conditioned. In their
cultural orientation the Fulani are strongly traditionalist. They tend to
believe in a "steady state" theory of culture and feel that there is only one
correct way to live - precisely as their forebears did through the generations.
To resist assimilation with the numerically dominant Hausa and culture change
generally, they have developed strong ethnocentric attitudes. Like nomads
elsewhere, they have a strongly independent personality fostered by their
mobility. Thus, if there is coercion, threats, or any form of unpleasantness -
real or imagined - they will flee. They are fully aware that compared with
sedentary people their life is grueling and in order to avoid losing members
to sedentarism they maintain an elaborate propaganda which extols the Fulani
life style and the value of cattle, while denigrating all that is non-Fulani.
The Fulani passion for their cattle is well known and observers have noted
their reluctance to market them. The cattle are also milked and the sale of
:ilk and milk products helps meet day to day living expenses. Cattle are
normally sold only to meet the most pressing needs such as payment of cattle
tax, crop damage fines, marriage expenses and family needs. Until recent times
Fulani have expressed little interest in factory produced consumer goods.
However, some are now buying items such as raincoats, shoes, transistors,
knives, wrist watches, beer, and metal utensils. It is likely that this trend,
especially if stimulated through extension, will increase and lead to a more
commercial attitude in the long run.
B. Social Organization
2.        The Family-Household.  The basic Fulani herd-owning and tending unit
is the simple or compound family: a man and his wife (or wives) and their
children. Occasionally one or more other kin or non-kin Fulani may reside
with a family, thus enlarging the household.  The family-household averages



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5 - 6 individuals and 80% of all such groups fall in the range of 3 - 7
individuals. Family households depend on herds averaging 30 beasts, 70%
being herds in the range of 10 to 50 head.
3.        Nomadic Fulani family-households cluster in groups to form camps.
Such camps may vary in size and composition during the annual cycle. Examina-
tion of these camps reveals two basic types.
(a) Kin-based Residential Units. In the 19th century (and
presumably earlier), practically all Fulani lived in camps
of around 20 to 40 households. The household heads in these
camps could trace kinship links to a common ancestor. A
camp was under the leadership of a senior genealogically
qualified male (regionally variously called ruga, ardo, dikko,
jonwuro, magaji, laniido, sarkin) who was in fact a named
lineage. The camp was strongly corporate through its full
range of social, political and economic activities.
(b) Nonkin Units. Today, most Fulani prefer to live in co-
residential units as large as local pastures and water
supply will allow. The maximum camp size under the most
favorable conditions is about 30 huts (180 people, 900
cattle). Fulani household heads always have a rationale for
co-residence in camps. In recent decades two types of non-
kin camps have emerged:
(i)  camps because of grass ("gam fudo"); these are usually
temporary dry-season aggregates at the southern limit
of migration and formed near lush pastures. They are
camps of convenience. "It is better to camp with a
stranger than alone."
(ii)  camps because of friendship ("gam higotiragu"); these
are avant-garde herdsmen who in camping together give
expression to the modern view that bonds of friendship
can be comparable with bonds of kinship.
4.        It should be noted that neither of the latter two camp types have
the temporal stability of the kin-based camp and also their leadership is
usually weak. However, if ideal pastoral conditions can be provided a strong
corporate sense would be expected to emerge in time as the traditional
nomadic system becomes increasingly threatened owing to land pressure. In
general, the Fulani reaction to these pressures as an ethnic and occupational
group is to develop a stronger sense of unity and a mood of cooperation in
their own ranks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C. Pattern of Transhumance
5.        General.  The Fulani are described as nomadic or semi-nomadic but
this can be misleading since over the centuries varying degrees of settlement
have developed and for the majority "migratory" would provide a more apt
description. The extent of settlement amongst Fulani varies widely between
areas but informed estimates have suggested that overall some 20 - 25% of
cattle belong to settled owners, 30 - 35% to semisettled and 40 - 50% to
nomadic peoples. Settled cattle owners include those who live in large towns,
villages or more densely populated districts. Their cattle are generally
herded on local grazing areas and during the dry season they obtain some feed
by browsing crop residues on their own and neighbouring farmlands. So long
as cattle can be fed in close proximity to the town, the owner can expect an
income from milk sales and, for some months of the dry season, a limited
benefit from the manure deposited on his farm during stubble grazing.  The
settled group also includes traditional cattle-owning peoples outside the
urban areas who over the years have developed a degree of dependence on
settlement and farming.
6.        The seminomadic group of owners are those who generally retain
a homestead as a base in their wet season grazing areas and during this time
plant some limited food crops. In the dry season they leave for the better
grazing of the higher rainfall areas, often leaving behind part of their
herd, usually cows and calves, near the homestead together with the older
family members and young children.
7.        The so called nomadic peoples are those with no fixed abode.  They
represent the majority and are almost constantly on the move with their cattle.
Movement is governed principally by the need to secure the best grazing and
lowest tsetse challenge. Even amongst these peoples there is softe limited and
sporadic crop growing, usually a little short season millet, when circumstances
force the nomad to supplement his income or his family food supply.
S.        Management and Cattle Movement.  Notwithstanding the varying patterns
of settlement of the cattle owners, the systems of animal husbandry adopted
and the traditional approach to cattle ownership is essentially the same.
Ownership of cattle serves not only to provide a living, mainly through sales
of milk, but the size of the herd confers a degree of prestige on the owner
and basically represents his total wealth. Numbers therefore assume importance
and a high premium is placed on the breeding female. In general, slaughter
offtake is confined to the immediate needs for cash. There is a complete
dependence on available natural grazing as cattle owners make no attempt at
pasture improvement. Any management techniques adopted are largely aimed at
what may benefit the herd in the short term rather than any long term mainte-
niance of grazing capacity. The Fulani has an intimate knowledge of the needs
of his cattle and is fully aware of the deficiencies in the quality of dry
season herbage. Consequently, full use is made of crop residues in the early
dry season. The non-cattle owning farmer generally welcomes, because of the



ANNEX 2
Page 4
benefits of manure, cattle grazing on his stubble or being confined overnight
on his land. He often makes some form of payment to the cattle owner for this,
either in the form of food or an equivalent amount in cash.
9.        The basic transhumant movement is southward in the dry season
(November to April) and northward in the wet season (May to October). The
seasonal movement of cattle is largely dictated by environmental factors, the
Fulani herdsman's movements being dictated by the need to provide adequate
grazing and water for his stock and to avoid the tsetse areas. He is skilled
at maintaining this delicate balance and utilizing his detailed knowledge of
conditions over vast areas. In broad terms the animal migratory movement is
as follows:
(a)  During the wet season (May-October) the herds, confined
to the tsetse free Sudan zone in the north, are in good
condition with adequate grazing. The family unit is
together and even amongst nomadic herds camp movements
are limited. Cultivated land has to be avoided as crops
are growing.
(b)  After the rains, in late November-December, natural surface
water in the north dries up and available grazing decreases
rapidly. Those cattle to be moved to the Guinea zone start
the seasonal trek to the south, grazing crop residues and
swamp areas en route.
(c)  In the mid-dry season (January-February) the trek southwards
continues. In the north both grazing and crop residues are
limited, as are water supplies, but the seasonal destocking
has taken place. Those moving south complete the journey.
This is the coolest time of year (Harmattan) and temperatures
and humidity gradually increase during the late dry season
(March to April) at which time crop residues are exhausted
and bush-fires have destroyed much of the remaining upland
grazing. This is the most difficult time of year for both
herd and herder.
(d)  The early rains (April-May) are marked by sporadic thunder-
storms and during this period the movement back north to the
wet season grazing areas and homesteads takes place, to
recommence the cycle.
10.       Herds normally set out on a predetermined route that is followed
annually, although over the years the pattern will alter as changes take
place in the availability of grazing areas or in the boundaries of G. Morsitans
belts. There is wide variation between herds in the actual distances covered
during the migration but herd movements of between 200-250 miles in one direc-
tion are common. Indigenous cattle are well adapted to the harsh environment
and the Fulani exploits natural conditions in a management system which re-
quires no capital investment. The system is largely an adaptation to ensure



ANNEX 2
Page 5
survival and herd productive performance is low. The fertility rate is around
40-50%, mortality is 10-20% for calves and 4-10% for adults, and growth to
maturity takes 4-5 years. However, it is felt that even these low levels of
production cannot be maintained indefinitely. The traditional pastoralist
system is being progressively threatened by pressure on land arising from
increasing human population, increased farming activity and by the pressure
of increasing cattle concentrations on shrinking grazing areas. In the wet-
season grazing areas, progressively larger acreages are being taken over for
cultivation. In some cases the resulting concentration of cattle on remain-
ing grasslands has caused severe overgrazing. The National Tsetse Clearance
Program is doing little to assist this situation as land cleared of tsetse
is being utilized in a haphazard fashion. Both croppers and graziers are
moving in and the former are laying claim to the majority of land by physical
cultivation; the unsettled pastoralist is being given little recognition, in
accordance with traditional land tenure customs.
D. Present Situation
11.       There is an urgent need, in the national interest to reduce these
pressures on the traditional cattle sector and increase overall productive
performance. To achieve this, land must be set aside for the pastoralist
and improved management techniques imposed. This implies a change to a more
settled form of husbandry as a step towards a stratification of the cattle
industry. This presents major technical and sociological problems. From
the sociological viewpoint much has been written and said regarding the
Fulani's reluctance to sell cattle and his lack of commercial approach to
cattle ownership. An over-simplified explanation is that traditionally the
Fulani scorns farming or aiy form of manual labor, that he is not interested
in material wealth in the form of consumer goods or in education, that his
life revolves around his cattle which for him confer a degree of status deter-
mined by the total number rather than the quality of the cattle he owns.
Thus by his own standards he hias no reason to sell cattle unless circumstances
force him to do so. To this explanation is added the belief that nomadism as
a way of life has its attractions and that it is in some way an inherited
characteristic of the peoples who practice it.
12.       Whilst there may be varying degrees of truth in these statements,
there is ample evidence that changes from the purely nomadic life have been
made over the long term whiere circumstances have forced them or made them
desirable for the individual. Where it has fitted in with his needs the
Fulani has responded well to what, by his own standards, are "revolutionary
techniques", as is evidenced by his acceptance of vaccination and veterinary
health programs.
13.       A review of the present situation in Nigeria indicates that major
needs of the Fulani are:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
- adequate feed for his stock throughout the year;
- adequate water supplies;
- veterinary attention for his stock; and
- extension services.
In terms of improving beef production these are essential and their provision
forms the basis of these components of the Project directed towards improve-
ment of the traditional industry.  Under the Project, two separate approaches
would be employed (a) provision of basic physical inputs (water, roads, fire-
breaks and such) on land being cleared by the National Tsetse Program to allow
rational exploitation of the natural grassland areas, and (b) establishment
of selected improved pastures on the Kukar Jangarai Reserve (which has already
been provided with the basic physical inputs under an earlier USAID program).
14.       Under (a) above, some 1,600 sq mi would be involved.  The areas
would be developed in units of approximately 100 sq mi (i.e. 64,000 ac) with
four units being completed in PY 2, seven units in PY 3 and five units in
PY 4. Investments would be in firebreaks and roads, water development, stock-
handling facilities, housing and vehicles and equipment. The housing and
vehicles would provide accommodation and transport for the Range Development
Officer (of which there would be one per unit) and his staff. After establish-
ment, the stocking on each unit would be carefully controlled to prevent over-
grazing and to ensure the most efficient management and rational exploitation
of the unit. In addition to grazing privileges, herdsmen would be provided
with dipping facilities and veterinary drugs and vaccines for their cattle and
in return would be expected to pay a nominal grazing fee for the package of
services of N 0.5/AU/yr.
15.       Under (b) (para. 13), the Project would establish 1,500 ac of improved
pasture - 500 ac/yr in PY 2 to 4 - for the purpose of demonstrating to local
traditional producers the value of such pastures in improving total bulk and
quality of feed and irn providing a more even seasonal distribution of fodder.
Such a development would be a logical follow-on from earlier USAID efforts
in the Reserve to provide water, roading and firebreaks to facilitate controlled
exploitation of the natural grassland of the area. At the present time the
300,000 ac Reserve inT carrying some 40,000 animals in the wet season and
6,000 animals in the dry season and can be considered to have reached its
potential carrying capacity given present inputs. The present efforts would
be directed not only to increasing the total dry matter produced from the
Reserve, and hence its carrying capacity, but to introducing modern concepts
of pasture production and animal management to the traditional sector. Of
central importance in ensuring the success of the program would be the pro-
curement of suitable cultivars of Cenchrus ciliaris, Setaria sphacelata and
Stylosanthe s sp. adapted to the zone and the use of phosphate fertilizer
which would be used annually and on a continuing basis to ensure adequate
legume vigor.  After establishment, subsequent management would emphasize
sound grazing and stocking practices, control of stock being achieved through
minimum inputs of fencing. In addition to being offered access to improved
pasture, herdsmen would be provided with dipping facilities and veterinary
services for their cattle for which they would be charged a grazing fee of
N 0,2/AU/mth.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Health Situation
1.        The Veterinary Divisions of the various State Government Ministries
of Agriculture are responsible for animal health measures. They generally
are adequately staffed and financed to carry out this task satisfactorily.
Animal health control has improved steadily over the years. Nonetheless,
most of the common West African animal diseases remain endemic to Nigeria as
well as to its neighboring countries. The following cattle diseases are of
major commercial importance.
2.        Rinderpest.  Rinderpest formerly was the most important epizootic
disease, but due to the JP 15 antirinderpest campaign carried out in Nigeria
from 1962 to 1966, its incidence has been greatly reduced. Outbreaks still
occur in Nigeria as well as in neighboring countries and the disease remains
a major potential threat to the country's cattle population. Rinderpest
would not be a danger to the project since all project cattle would be vac-
cinated against the disease on a routine basis.
3.        Trypanosomiasis.  Trypanosomiasis is regarded as the most serious
disease now confronting the cattle industry. There is evidence, however,
that its importance as a production constraint may have been exaggerated.
In many cases lack of proper diagnostic services and ignorance on the part
of herd owners has resulted in deaths being attributed to the disease when
they have been due to other causes. Consequently, commonly heard statements
such as "White Fulani cattle cannot survive in the south due to high tsetse
challenge", need reevaluation in the light of the evidence that some graziers
now seem to be keeping zebu cattle satisfactorily in areas considered heavily
infested.
4.        Government has taken active steps to eradicate tsetse-fly in the
north. Over the last 20 years the Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Division (TTD)
of the Federal Livestock Department and its precursors have developed a well-
staffed and well-equipped organization that has been able to execute success-
fully an extensive Tsetse Clearance Program. The Clearance Program is aimed
at eradicating the fly from some 100,000 sq mi of the Sudan, sub-Sudan and
Guinea zones of the northern states. To date, some 35,000 sq mi have been
cleared and the Program is expected to complete its work in the next 15 years.
5.        In the south tsetse-fly eradication is much more expensive due to
higher rainfall and greater vegetative growth and at present is uneconomic.
Thus, an increase in beef production in the south will, for the short and
medium term at least, depend on trypano-tolerant cattle such as the N'Dama,
West-African Shorthorn type breeds (Muturu and Keteku). Provided the location



ANNEX 3
Page 2
of beef cattle enterprises using these breeds is well selected and chemo-
prophylatic and curative treatments are used as necessary, trypanosomiasis
should not be a constraint on developing a cattle industry in the south.
6.        Cnangnious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP). CBPP is endemic to
Northeini Nli.geria, but the W State and generally speaking areas south of 9
North appear now to be free of the disease. CBPP will remain a serious poten-
tial danger as long as there are enzootic areas, uncontrolled cattle move-
ments, and unwillingness on the part of cattle owners to report outbreaks.
At present relatively few cattle, and usually these are those under stress -
for example trekking cattle - succumb to the disease.
7.        For many years the Animal Health Services have tried eradication
of CBPP by slaughtering all cattle in infested zones and compensating cattle
owners for their losses. During the last few years, however, outbreaks have
increased steadily, and the slaughter policy has become excessively costly.
The Animal Health Services have now switched to vaccination. Supplies of
vaccines were a problem until recently, but the Federal Department of Veter-
inary Research at Vom has increased production in anticipation of a national
eradication program which started in 1973.
8.        All project cattle would be vaccinated against CBPP (Zebus once
and Taurins - N'Dama, Keteku and Muturu-twice a year). Purchased cattle
would be subject to vaccination and quarantine, the effects of which would be:
a.   a reaction disrupting weight increase for several days, and
b.   distinctive crisis effects among CBPP symptom-free carriers,
allowing such carriers to be recognized and eliminated.
9.        Streptothricosis.  Streptothricosis (a skin disease) is endemic
throughout the country and is likely to be an increasing problem in efforts
to intensify cattle production in the wetter Guinean areas. Taurin cattle
have a high degree of tolerance to the disease, but zebus are very suscep-
tible to it. The worst cases of streptothricosis are seen in the wetter south
in zebus driven from the north enroute to market.
10.       Streptothricosis remains a major problem since no effective treat-
ment exists that can be used on a large scale. The use of high doses of
penicillin-streptomycine has been successful but such treatments are expensive
and uneconomic except in special cases, such as the treatment of draft oxen.
Reasonable results have been obtained with cheaper dipping or spraying using
insecticides and, if necessary, arsenic drugs and/or quarternary ammonium; all
project cattle would be so treated until alternative and more effective
treatments are developed.
11.        The Farcha Livestock Institute at N'djamena, Chad, is working on
a vaccine for streptothricosis, and initial results have been encouraging.
Development of an effective vaccine would radically change the situation
since it would be more efficient and less expensive than either prophylatic
or curative treatments.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
12.       Helminthiasis.  Helminthiasis (worms) is serious and widespread
throughout Nigeria. It is a major cause of unthriftiness and,mortality, parti-
cularly in young stock. The widespread nature of the disease is encouraged
by traditional husbandry practices whereby animals are constantly on the move
in herds during the day and concentrated in confined areas at night.  Helmin-
thiasis is more serious in the higher rainfall areas of the south than in the
north. At present very little control is practiced but development of the
cattle industry will require the use of control measures with anthelmintics.
13.       Other Diseases.  Other diseases of lesser importance include black-
leg, anthrax and haemorrhagic septicaemia. Outbreaks generally are sporadic
and appropriate vaccines are available. Brucellosis and tuberculosis have
been identified and could become more prevalent with the intensification of
cattle production. Foot-and-mouth disease occurs from time to time though in
a fairly mild form. Tick-borne diseases such as anaplasmosis, babeseliosis
and piroplasmosis are known but are not regarded as-a serious constraint since
they can be controlled by regular spraying and dipping. -Rabies is prevalent
throughout the country.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Supporting Services
1.        General Organization.  Responsibility for the development of agri-
culture and livestock throughout Nigeria is essentially a state function,
although the Federal Government is involved in matters of policy, in establish-
ing priorities, and in coordination at the national level. Each State Govern-
ment discharges its responsibility through its Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources. The organization within each State varies somewhat.
Broadly, in the six northern States both animal health and production are
under the Veterinary Divisions, whereas in the southern States animal health
is the responsibility of the Veterinary Divisions and livestock production
of the Agricultural Divisions. Federal control is exercised through the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR), which was
created in 1965 to promote and coordinate natural resouirce research and
development at the national level.  Development policy has been made the
responsibility of the National Council for Agriculture and Natural Resources,
which was set up in 1970 specifically to advise Federal and State Administra-
tions on overall policy and planning matters and to make recommendations on
priorities and financing in the fields of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
The Council is served by separate technical committees embracing Agriculture,
Fisheries, Forestry and Livestock.
2.        The Federal Livestock Department (FLD).  Programs of FMANR are
effected throuoh its six departments covering Agriculture, Fisheries, Forestry,
Ifeteorology, Research and Livrestock (FLD). The function of FLD is to coordi-
nate and implement livestock d'velopment at the national level. In addition,
it acts as a liaison between the Federal Government and outside bodies in all
livestock matters. It is organized into four divisions as follows: (i)
Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis (TTD), (2) Veterinary Public and Animal Health
(VPAI), (3) Planning, and (4) Federal Leather Institute.
3.        TTD, established over 20 years ago under the former Northern Region
Administration, is a well-staffed, well equipped and effective organization.
It is successfully executing an extensive National Tsetse Clearance Program.
This Program is aimed at eradicating fly infestation from some 100,000 sq. mi.
in the Sudan, sub-Sudan and Guinea zones of the northern states to allow use of
the land on a permanent basis. To date, some 35,000 sq. mi. have been success-
fully cleared and the Program is expected to complete its work in the course
of the next 15 years. In addition, TTD undertakes investigations of animal
trypanosomiasis and advises the States on treatment techniques and policy.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The Veterinary Division is an advisory and regulatory body concerned
with standards of food hygiene and veterinary public health. Amongst its
responsibilities, the Division controls meat inspection at slaughterhouses
in all major cities throughout the country.
5.        Extension Services.  The infrastructure for agricultural and live-
stock extension work is well established and staff on the whole appears to
be numerically fairly adequate. Veterinary health services are also well
developed and major diseases are generally under adequate control. One
problem presenting itself, however, concerns the orientation of animal product-
ion work in general.  It appears that a much more practical approach has to
be given this work and recognition accorded the fact that production work
per se is better left in the hands of agricultural or veterinary graduates
with specialist training in production techniques than in the the hands of
general agricultural or veterinary graduates. The training of the latter,
as presently oriented in Nigeria, does not provide a strong enough background
in husbandry and production to allow them to function adequately in central
roles in the execution of commercial livestock production projects.
6.        Besides the need to strengthen animal production work, State Minis-
tries need to give greater emphasis to extension activities and range manage-
ment. In fact, the start that has been made to train individuals in the
latter area requjires considerable expansion to fill the very pressing need
throughout the country for range management expertise.  At the same time,
more attention needs to be given the choice of overseas training centers to
vhich candidates are sent. In the past many have been sent to centers lo-
cated in countries where conditions are completely different from those in
Nigeria and the training acquired has been of limited benefit. In this re-
spect, much greater use needs to be made in future of training institutions
throughout northern Australia where ecological conditions are very similar
to m.uch of Nigeria and where the science of range management is very advanced.
7.        A neglected area and one requiring urgent attention concerns live-
stock extension courses for farmers.  These should take the form of practical
field demnonstrations and lectures in improved nutrition and management and
serve to introduce newer concepts of husbandry and livestock production tech-
nicues. Farmers are interested in these possibilities, and much of the infra-
structure necessarv for the organization of such demonstrations and field
days is already present. It would require only quite modest budgetary out-
lays and organizational skills to implement demonstrations at existing centers
in key livestock producing areas throughout the country.
8.        Research.  The infrastructure for agricultural research in Nigeria
is, generally speaking, very adequate. Research in livestock is undertaken
bv various agencies of the Federal Government and by the universities. State-
government agencies in general are not involved in research to any significant
extent at present, although modest programs are being undertaken by the
Western State at Moor Plantation and Fashola and by the East Central State



ANNEX 4
Page 3
at Umdike. There are, however, indications that several of the State
Governments are interested in becoming more involved in the future, partic-
ularly in applied research undertakings. This is encouraging since, taking
into account the size of Nigeria and the considerable variation in its
ecology, it is questionable wqhether the Federal Government and the universit-
ies can provide the depth of research, and the detailed work necessary at
the applied level, to allow development of livestock industries quickly and
efficiently in the individual states.
9.        Federal agencies concerned with research in animal health and pro-
duction are :
The Federal Denartment of Agricultural Research, Ibadan.
The Nigerian Institute of Trypanosomiasis Research, Kaduna and Vom.
The Federal Department of Veterinary Research, Vom.
The latter institution, as well as undertaking livestock research, is respon-
sible for the production of all livestock vaccines needed in Nigeria.
1I.       Universities with programs in livestock research include Ibadan,
Ife, Nsukka and Ahmadu Bello. In general, livestock work tmdertaken by the
universities, while of good quality, lacks production orientation and thus
is not serving to provide solutions to the real problems confronting the
livestock industry. An exception to this is the work being undertaken by the
Institute of Agricultural Research (Ahmadu Bello UJniversity) at Shika, which
traditionally has adopted a much more pragmatic approach in its programs and
has been particularly successful in integrating grassland and livestock re-
search in a very effective manner. More of this type of work is needed. A
better balance needs to be struck in the future between this approach, the
earlier emphasis given to disease control studies by federal institutions, and
the academic studies being made by university Departments of Animal Science.
11.       In the context of research orientation, the Federal Government has a
key role to play through FMANR, the National Agricultural Research Council
and the various development committees of the National Council for Agricul-
ture and Natural Resources. These federal agencies are in a unique position
to determine not only overall development strategy but, through the deploy-
ment of their substantial budgets, the priority and emphasis given research
and development undertakings in the field of livestock production.
12.       Education and Training.  Training facilities in agriculture and
veterinary science are available at a number of institutions throughout the
country; in this respect, Nigeria is comparatively well off. Degree-level
training in agriculture is offered at the universities of Ife, Nsukka, Ibadan
and Ahmadu Bello. The latter two institutions also provide degree programs
in veterinary science. At present, some 40 veterinarians and 100 agricul-
turalists qualify for degrees each year. This is a substantial output and



ANNEX 4
Page 4
facilities for increasing these numbers are available. In addition two-year
agricultural diploma courses are offered at five centers (Akure, Ibadan,
Samaru, Kabba, ITmadike). Similar diplomas are offered in animal health at
the Federal Veterinary School, Vom. Currently, over 300 agricultural tech-
nicians and some 50 veterinary technicians receive the diploma each year.
13.       The general quality of graduates and diplomates in agriculture and
veterinary science is acceptable. It appears, however, that more practical
work is required in all programs to offset the undue emphasis on book learn-
ing. All too often students finish their courses with insufficient practi-
cal experience and without adequate orientation in the real problems existing
in the fields in which they are to work. Further, the development of a prac-
tical attitude to their profession, and the ability to define problems in
simple terms and provide straight-forward practical solutions, are not suffi-
ciently encouraged in agricultural and veterinary students in Nigeria at the
present time. These shortcomings are serious and require correction if
Nigeria is to make the best of its agricultural potential.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENYT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit.
1.        Introduction.  Agricultural credit is poorly developed in Nigeria.
Whenever credit institutions have been established they have been hampered
in most cases by political interference, weak management and cumbersome
procedures.
2.        Sources of Agricultural Credit.  Most agricultural credit comes
from local moneylenders, friends, and relatives and is generally short-term
and sometimes in kind. Credit institutions have not teen successful in
Nigeria. Several regional credit agencies have been esftablished in the past
20-30 years, but only two remain; one, in the Mid-West State, is primarily
concerned with the collection of old debts; the other, in Western State, has
recently started a more active credit program making loans of up to seven
years to companies and individuals (mainly for the production of cash crops)
with loan supervision by the Corporation's field staff.
3.        Also in the Western State, the State Government-sponsored National
Bank has made a few medium-term loans (four years) for livestock, but has had
little impact on production levels. More successfully, the Nigerian Tobacco
Company (NTC) finances the production of fluecured tobacco by family farms
on a small scale.  Short and medium-term loans up to four years to tobacco
farmers are disbursed through the commercial banks on the security of a lien
held by NTC over the farmer's production.
4.        In the north, there are some very small credit programs operated by
the States for the supply of fertilizer; a small but successful program, ad-
ministered by Local Authorities, provides farmers with animal drawn plows.
5.        Until 1969/70 the commercial banks made loans, guaranteed by
Government, to the marketing boards and their Licensed Buying Agents (LBA).
Subsequently, a new Federal law designated the Central Bank to handle all
the credit requirements of the marketing boards and withdrew Government
guarantees for loans to LBA's. The commercial banks now play little part in
agricultural lending, which in June 1971 represented only 2.5% of their total
outstandings. Short-term crop loans are made to well secured borrowers and
senior civil servants; lending for livestock production is insignificant.
These banks have been very conservative, with strict collateral requirements
for agricultural borrowers.
6.        Interest Rates.  The Central Bank has a minimum rediscount rate of
4 1/2%; it lends to the Marketing Boards at 6%. The commercial banks' prime



ANNEX 5
Page 2
lending rate, usually 2 1/2 points above the rediscount rate, is presently
7%. Short and medium-term loans are made to well-secured commercial borrow-
ers at 8-8 1/2% and 8 1/2-9% respectively; medium-term loans to small and
medium-sized traders are made by some commercial banks at 10-12%. Money-
lenders commonly charge rates of interest in the range 24-50%.
7.        Demand for Agricultural Credit.  Demand in the past has come largely
from the regional or state marketing boards, and their LBA, who make preseason
advances to farmers growing those crops covered by the marketing boards.
8.        More recently, however, there has been increased demand for credit
from cattle farmers and traders, who presently lack adequate holding/fattening
facilities and are compelled to sell off cattle quickly rather than hold and
finish them to higher weights. In the southern States both livestock produc-
tion and mixed farming have attracted entrepreneurs and led to a rapid growth
in credit demand which is at present unsatisfied. There is ample scope for
further increase in demand if the returns on agricultural investment can be
improved. Mechanization is in its infancy, and even a change from the ubiqui-
tous hand hoe to simple animal-drawn implements would produce a large credit
demand. Rehabilitation schemes for tree crops (which would include improved
plants and fertilizer application) and production improvement plans for annual
export and food crops (which would include fertilizer and improved seeds)
would also generate demand. A more general increase in demand could be brought
about by improvements in extension services, the distribution of inputs and
marketing arrangements.
9.        Central Bank Guidelines.  One of the Government's instruments for
directing credit to the agricultural sector is the annual directive issued
bv the Central Bank to the commercial banks. These guidelines are designed
to control the rate of expansion of credit in the economy and its alloca-
tion. The 1971 guidelines specified an 8.5% growth in total advances over
the comparable months in 1970. By June 1971, however, the credit outstanding
was 68% greater than in June 1970 (Table 1). Agricultural lending, which in
June 1970 represented only 2% of total outstandings, was programmed for a
150, increase in 1971 (from N 13.42 million), which would have given the
sector a 5, share of the total. In fact, agricultural lending only increased
to N 10.82 million and its share of the total to 2.5%.
10.       The guidelines for the period April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973
emphasized the allocation rather than the rate of expansion of credit. Com-
mercial banks were directed to channel 4% of their total loans and advances
to agricultural production (see Table 2) by March 31, 1973, although they
expected that even this would not be easy to attain. In addition, they were
expected to allocate a minimum of 40% (compared with 35% previously) of their
total loans and advances to businesses in which Nigerian nationals retain
51% or more of the ownership.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       However, the Central Bank guidelines for agricultural lending and
the gradual recognition of agriculture's potential have made the commercial
banks interested in participating in a livestock development project either
as agents of the Government, or as joint financiers with Government. They
are prepared to provide short-term working capital requirements and some
longer-term loan funds for up to five years or more. Although still cautious,
they acknowledge that, given the suPpprt of adequate technical services, re-
cognized land occupancy rights together with a lien over livestock could
represent adequate security for livestock development loans.
12.       Nigerian Agricultural Bank.  Government's most important step
towards the development of agricultural credit has been the creation of the
Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB). This would be the first Federal institution
organized solely to provide finance for agriculture. NAB was registered
under the Companies Act in November 1972; it was officially inaugurated in
early 1973. Government is to provide N 12 million from Federal funds - N 1.0
million as share capital and the balance as a long term loan. The main
objects of the NAB are set out in its Memorandum of Association as follows:
"(a) To grant loans for agricultural production (including horti-
culture, poultry farming, pig breeding, fisheries, forestry
and timber production, animal husbandry and any other type
of farming) and for purposes of storage, distribution and
marketing connected with such production to any state, group
of states or any state institution for on-lending to any
farmer, group of farmers, or body corporate, subject to the
state or group of states or state institution guaranteeing
repayment of the loan.
(b)  To grant direct loans to individual farmers, cooperative
societies or other bodies (corporate or unincorporate) in
appropriate cases, provided that the bank is satisfied that
the schemes for which the loans are requested are viable and
there is adequate security to cover such loans.
(c) To charge interest on loans to meet the full costs of manage-
ment including debt servicing, allowing adequate sums to be
set aside for general and bad debts reserves before paying
any dividend."
Government expects NAB to play a major role in agriculture and in the develop-
ment of credit institutions in the States.
13.       IBRD has worked closely with the Government in planning the estab-
lishment of NAB, and is the executing agency for a UNDP/SF project under
which a consultancy firm is providinp a senior management team in the early
years.



ANNEX 5
'Page 4
14.       NAB would be the main credit channel for the proposed livestock
project. Its head office will be in Kaduna, an important agricultural center,
which is also proposed as the location of the Livestock Project Unit to be
set up in the Federal Livestock Department.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outstanding Credit (N Millions)
June 1970                    June 1971   Excess of Actual
Actual     Guidelines        Actual    over Guidelines
Agriculture, Forestry &
Fishing                      5.28        13.42           10.82           -20.4
Manufacturing, Mining &
Construction                72.84        88.22          168.02            90.7
General Commerce            111.20       117.02           168.42           43.9
Services                     13.72         15.22          26.22             71.6
Others                       40.08        26.62            64.62           142.5
TOTAL            243.12        260.50          438.10            68.1



ANNEX 5
Table 2
NICERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Central Bank Credit Guideline
April 1, 1972 to TIarch 31, 1973
Percentage Share
of Total Loans &
Sector                                             Advances
(a)  Production                                                    45.0
Agriculture                                                    4.0
MTining                                                        4.0
Manufactturing                                                 30.0
Real Estate and Construction                                   7.0
(b)  General Commerce                                               32.0
Exports                                                       10.0
ITnorts                                                       10.0
Domestic Trade                                                10.0
Bills Discounted                                               2.0
(c)  Services                                                       11.0
Public Utilitfes                                                3.0
Transnortation and Communication                               8.0
(d)  Others                                                         12.0
Credit and Financial Institutions                              1.0
Government                                                     2.0
Personal and Professionsl                                      6.0
'Miscellaneous                                                 3.0
TOTAL (a-d)       I00.0



040
p eso RBroh - 2,500 se
Haelen                                                                                 6LL
e              ..I......                                                                                        3              30             12               12               12             1
t asi,g0'u                             '*                                      ' 51               259           316!3          376           hC4C0                     0       40            hloc 0
OWers                                                         *                25                  25           129            218           263              300              300            300
Settee 9-24 sonths                                            *      .       ..          .        ..      .     ..      .      ..     .     ....               .              ,. 12  12  1 2 63  107  129  14 7    147
St.eraslls 9-24 sootb   ...................*.                                 12                   12            12             63           107              129              347            147
Mlers 2-3year                                                 *               U                    U              U             -             -                -                 -             -
Steari/Ils 2-3 Year  ............... ... 11...... ........                                                       11                           62               30                - _
Total la      ...                                                 1$25                 338           548        74 1              951       _      0                 a. 006      1.oc6
Total Anials Uit,AU   /                lO                                              313           419            523 6e8  700                                    706            706
u.n-eu              --~~~~~~~~~~!__                 -L             --                      -   --- 2
Hell..f.........                                                               1                    6    3    2    3                                            3                4    4
h-Calf Con/Bet? en.-                                                     229~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om  100      -----
Ttal porPrhse ..............                                                                          ,_z                        z.             -----o 2.3
81RTALOT
Bulls  1.                                                                                           I             I              1             -                1                1              1
Ereed,r'Co. '2                                                                                      2              7             8             8                8                8
weas_r .1  1 1 3 4 5  6 6
Heibfr9-24 antha.1                                                                                                        1 1    1             1                2                        3      3
Steers/lhlBs 9-24onths .1                                                                           1              1             1             1                2                 3             3
itfera 2-3 ars .............                                                                           . . ... ........
St.aes/B0l1.  2-3 Yearo ......................                                  1                   1              1             1              -               1                 1             -
el mortality.                                                        a                   8             12            16            14               19                22            21
Skm
Cull BuDs ............                                                                              - _-                         1             1                2                 3             3
GuUll 2  ..                 .......... .                                                            -              -             -            20               20                40    40
Hsifra 2-3 years .-                                                                                 -              -             -            10               77               78    96
Sters/h21 2-3 ears .-                                                                               -              -             -              -              3e               63    72
Heifer, 3-4Ianr ............3                                                                       -              -             -             ----
Steen/Blls 3-4 p err.                                                          10                  10             10            10            11               61               29              -
Breadint Bulls, RLoeb Bred, 2-3 year .-                                                             -              - ............. .                           37               63             72
Total . ...                                                         18                   10    10    U1    42                                      235               276    283
TISC)DEAL COMSICIOSIS
Calves WaQd. S .50                                                                                 50    50    60    70                                        75                75    75
Mortaity .3                                                                                         3   3   2   2    2    2   2
Cullig Rat Buls % .                                                            10                    0             0            10            10               10                20            20
Culling at. Cove %....................10                                                            0              0             0             5               10                10            10
oaliirt Rate Heifer. 2-3 yes .30                                                                    0              0             0             0               30                58            67
Buls % ofh se  Feale .3                                                                              3             3             3              3               3                 3             3
Stocking Ratas ome/A/  .25                                                                           8             6             4.8            3.6             3.6               3.5            3.5
_t         A. hual Unix is eialeot to an ..  ot o.    r  oy            f  H   or  re.
December 14, 1"3



ANNEX 6
NIGERIA                                                                                 Table 2
LIVRESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NF,LC Rmches
Bornu Ranch - 60,000 ac
Herd Projection
-------       ----------------------------- End of Project Year -----------------------------------
Before
HERD COMPOSITION                     Development              2__ 3                                            _6           7           8         9-21
Bulls    .              .22                                  29    43    54    71    74    82    86    91
Breeding Cows    .          .501                           850       1,200        1,600       2,000        2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500
Weaners        .         .........           250           250          425         720       1,120        1,500       1,875        1,875       1,875
Heifers 9-24 ..............                  121           121          121         208          353         549         735          919         919
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months . .                 121           121          121         208          353         549          735         919          919
Heifers 2-3 years                           117            117          117            -           -
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years                      117            117          117         119          204            -           -
Steers, purchased                              -           645       2,281       3,311        4,019       3,310        2,933       2,559        2,559
Bulls, Ranch Bred, 2-3 years                   -              -                                               18           15          17           12
Total Animals.                          1249          2,250        4,425       6,220        8.120       8,500        8.875       8,875        8,875
Total Animal Units, AU 1/                 999         2,000        4,000       5,500        7,000       7,000        7,000       7,000       7,000
PURCHASES
Bulls ......................                   3              8          15           16          23          18           10          10           10
In-calf Cows/Heifers                           - _         251          263         249         306          390            -           -            -
Steers              .-                                     645    2,281    3,311   4.019    3 310   2,933  2t.55                                2,559
Total Purchases                             3            904       2,559       3,576        4,348       3,718        2,943       2,569        2,569
MORTALITY
Bulls   .                .                                    1    1    1    1    1    2    2    2
Breeding Cows   .            .15                             15          26           24          32          40           50           50          50
Weaners   .               .                                   8           8            9          14    22    30    37    37
Heifers 9-24 months                            4              4           4            2           4            7          11          15           18
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months                       4              4           4            2           4           7           11          15           18
Heifers 2-3 years                              4              4           4            2           -            -
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years                         4              4           4            2           2            4           -            -           -
Steers, purchased                                             - -        19          46           66          80           66          59           45
Total Mortality                            40             40           70          88         123          161         170          178         170
SALES
Cull Bulls .2                                                 -           -            4           5          14           18           19    20
Cull Cows .49                                                 -           -          59           78         196    245               245          245
Heifers 2-3 years                                             -           - -          -           -            -         243         425         606
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years                                                    -            -           -         310         488          653          814
Heifers 3-4 years                             49              --                                   -- 
Steers/Bulls 3-4 years                      113            113          113         115          117         200            -            -           -
Steers, purchased                              -              -         626       2,235       3,245        3,939       3,244        2,874       2,514
Breeding Bulls, Ranch Bred 2-3 yrs             -              -                                    -           18          35          50           75
Total Sales.                               213           113          739      2,413        3,445       4,677        4,273       4,266        4,274
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Calves Weaned %   .            .50                          50           50           60          70           75          75           75          75
Mortality %           .        .3                             3           3            2           2            2           2            2           2
Culling Rate Bulls %                          10              0           0           10          10          20           20          20           20
Culling Rate Cows %                           10              0           0            5           5          10           10          10           10
Culling Rate Heifers 3-4 years               45               0           0            0           -            -           -
Culling Rate Heifers 2-3 years                 0              0           0            0           0            0          45          60           67
Bulls as % of Breeding Females                 3              3           3            3           3            3           3            3           3
Stocking Rate:   acres/AU                     60             30          15          11            8.6          8.6         8.6         8.6          8.6
1/    An Animal Unit is equivalent to an animal of one year of age or more.
Dece.mber 1      9 173



ANNUl 6
T-ble 3
NIGEIA
LIV15TOCK DEVZGEWMNT ROJECOT
2il  Ranches
D-razo Ranch - 2.5CO cc
I-estact Coati
(N)
Unit                    -2 -                               -3 -                            -           Pro  ----               TOTAL
Unmt             Cast            Units             Cost             Units             Cast              Units          COat               Units       Cost
C 0TEGORY
IXED INVCSOItRNT
F-rebrea-k  end Roasd
F.r.bosak. cnd Ceas  Tfraks .... .........          Nil.              70                   4             280                 4              2B o                 4             280                12        B40
Road .Mile                                                           230                  2              460                 -               -                   -               _                 2   400
Sub-otal.                                                                                       74                                28O                                28C                        1,300
Water D-evloprent
Lor   ..n............                     ,          , Unit        4,000                              14,000                         -       -                   -              -                         4,000
Stank Randllog Fatalities acd Fenoing
Hcodl.ag Yard and ap                 . .Unit                       2,4D0                   I           2,4c,                 -               -                   -              -                  1      2,430
Zattle SCal.                                        Unit           2,ODO                  1            2,000                         -                           -              -                  1   2,000
Fe-ncg.Un Ut                                                         700                   2           1.40C0                2            1,400                  2          1,bOo                  6 4.200
SCb-Total                                                                                     5,800                              1,400                             1,40            8,6oC
loatch Boaiaass
Starage Shed .Unit                                                 2,000                    1          2.000                 -               -                   -                 _               1   2,00C
Sob-Total                                                                                     U,000                                                                                              2, COO
Vs.h-los and Esqipeant
llotroynle .Unit                                                      450o                                                                     1                                                             450
Trootar,  C-65 HP .Unit                                             4,50o                  1           4,500                 -               -                   - _                               1      4,500
Traler.                                             Unit             8G0                   1             B0                  -               -                   -              -                  1    oo
Din Rarr.                                           Unit    1,100                         1            1,1lOC                -                                                                     1   1,100
Dis Florh (3furr                o v).Unit                            900                  1              940                 -               -         _                        -                  1        900
Rotary Otter.i'''' '                  '   ''''    Unit               800                   1             800                 -               _                   -              -                  1        800
Rntary Partilinzr   -tstiotr .....I..               Unit             goo                  1              9Cc                 -                                                                              90C
LavelCing Rarrv.Un..........i. Umt                                   500                  1               OC                 -_                                  -              -                  1        900
Seed Drll .Unit                                                    1,200                   1           1,200                                           _ -       - _                               1   1,200
- sl-,t.Ret .......,...                            Set              400                 1              400                 -               -                   -              -                  1        4ho
VCtnn-ary Eqoipent .Set                                              200                  1              200                 -               -                   -              -                  1        200
SCb-otal ..,75o                                                                                                                                                                                 11.750
Pactore Ic-cnns,oent
Land C-ing, Seed Bed Preparation and
Casing.............................                 A.              25                100            2,5oo               100           2,500                 IOC           2,500               300      7,100
Fertilon-   1/ ...............                      o              180                 25           14,50C                25           14,500                 25          41,500                75    13,5900
Sied  2/ .            .                             Lb               1.20           1;050           1,200             1,000            1,200               1,CC0           1,200            3,0CC       3,500
PFstolda  31 ............/ .                       Gal              10                100          12a0                 iCC1.000                             100          11000                30Z      3,000
Sob-Total           .     ......                                                              9,200                              9,200                              9,200                       27,600
TOTAL FIXED    hME VN             E      S                                                                   33,90                              10,880                             i%Q  aO2LQ
1/  Al:-,e appl-oatno-  of tnople ap-rphoaphtt  at 2.5 c.t/an  at casing and 2.5 nat/ac 6 noaths later.
A. ca      noxg rat  oif 10 lb oC cartons/an.
3/  A.-Mca. applitacoo  aof ons gel/ac of fomiode.
DCeenb-r 1, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 4
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NELC Ranches
Borau Ranich - 60.000 ac
Investment Coats
(N)
Projec t
_________________Year___________
Unit      ----2----             ----3 -     --        ----4 ----TOTAL
CATEGORY                                                          unit       cost      Units      Cost       Units      cost      units      cost      Units      Cost
FIXED-INVISI-MEIW
Firebreaks and Roads
Firebreaks and Access Tracks ..........                   Mile          70          12      840          12      840          12       840         36    2,520
Roads ..N...................                               ile         230           6    1.380           6    1.380           6    1,380           18    4.140
Sob-Total  .................2,220                                                                         2,220                                      6,660
Hater Development
Bcres  .1....................                             Unit      11,500           2   23,000           1   11,500          -                      3   34,500
Waterpipes ...................                            Mile       1,150           2    2,300           1    1,150          -                      3    3,450
Watertroughs ..................                           Unit          60           6      360           3      180          -         -9                  540
Sob-Total  .................25,660                                                                       12,830                    -38,490
Stock Handling Facilities and Fencing
Handling Yard and Dih9.............                       unit       4,600           1    4,600          -         -          -         -1    4,600
Fenc.ing ....................                             Nile         700          12    8.400          12    8.400          12    8 400          36   25.200
Sub-Total..................13,000                                                                         8,400                8,400      29,800   29,800
Noosing and Ranch Buildings
House:  Assistant Manager ...........                     Unit      15,000           1   15,000          -         -          -         -            1   15,000
Chief Clerk ..............                       Unit       5,000           1    5,000          -         --                   -1    5,000
Plant Operator.............                      Unit       3,000           1    3,000          -         --                   -1    3,000
Field Assistant ............                     unit       1,000           2    2,000           2    2,000-O                               4    4,000
Driver.................                          Unit       1,000           1    1,000            1    1,000          -        -2    2,000
Herds,sn/Laborer/Guard.........                  unit         500          10    5,000           10    5,000         10     5,010          30   15,000
Storage Shed..................                            Unit       4,500           1    4.500          -      __-           -         -1    4.500
Sut-Total................                                                           35,500                8,000                5,000                48,500
Vehicles and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle............                      Unit       4,500           1    4,500          -         ---                               1    4,500
Tractor, 60-65 hp ...............                         Unit       4,500           1    4,500           1    4,500          -         -2    9,000
Truck ...............I....I                               Unit       8.000           1    8.000          -                    --                     1    8,000O
Trailer ....................                              Unit         850           1      800           1      800          -         -2    1,600
Disc Harrow..................                             Unit       1,100           1    1,000          -         -          -I    1,100
Disc Plough (3 furrow) .......   .....                    Unit         900           1      900          -        --                                 1      900
Rotary Cutter ................                            unit         800           1      800           1      800          -         -2    1,600
Rotary Fertilizer Distributor......                       unit         900           1      900           1      900          -         -2    1,800
Levelling Harrow.........I.......                         Unit         500           1      500          -        ---                                1      500
Seed Drill...................                             Unit       1,800           1    1,800          -        --                    -1    1,800
Tools, etc ...................                             Set         700           1      700          -         ---                              1       700
Veterinary Equipment .D............et                                  300           1      300           1      300          -         -2                  601
Spares  _1/ ..................2.000                                                                               700                                     2.700
Sob-Total  ................26,800                                                                         8,000                    -34.800
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Bed Preparation and Sowing.             Ac          35        500   17,500          500   17,500        500    17,500       1,500   52,500
Fertiliser  2/ .Ton...............                                     180        125   22,500          125   22,500        125    22,500         375   67.500
Seed   3/....................                               Lb           1.20   5,000    6,000        5,000    6,000      5,000      6,000     15,000   18,000
Pesticide   4/ .................                           Gal          10        500    5.000          500    5,000        500     5.000       1,500   15.000
Sub-Total................                                                           51,000               51,000               51,000              153,000
Physical Contingencies  107 ...........15.400                                                                    9.050                6J.700               31,15D
TOTAL PIXED INVESTMENT..............169,580                                                                     99,500                73,320              342,400
I/   10% of cost of vehicles and equipment excepting four wheel drive vehicle.
2/  Assues application of triple auperphosphate at 2.5 owt/ac at sowing and 2.5 cwt/ac 6 months later.
3/   Assumes saving rate of 10 lb of mixture/ac.
_A/ Assumes applicatiaon of one gal/ac of feomicide.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 5
LIVESTOCK DEVEOPtIENT PROJECT
NRLC Ranches
Derazon Eash - 2.500 to
Sales. (0eratinz Imoomse. sind Livestock Purchases
(N)
Before             -----------------------Y w
Deolspmet                   2                           45                           6                 7j         8-21
SALES
Cull Nulls 1/ ......................-                                                                      -            200            200           400               600         600
Cull Cows 27 .....................                                   SoC-                                                -           3,200         3,20D            6,400       6,500
Heifers (2-3 yearn) 3/ ........-...........-                                                                                         2,000        15,4o0           55,6oo      19,200
Neifers (3-4 yearn) E' .................                            550                                            -                            ------
Steers/Thille  (2-3 Fear )/-----                                                                                                                   5,70             9,550      10,800
Steers'Bull  (3-5years                   .1,900                                      1,900         1,900         1,900          2,090        11,590             5,510O         -
Rreed,hg Bulls (2-3 Yea ')   ..............-                                                 -             -             --                        7.500)          12.600      16.400
TOTAL LIVESTOOt SALES .................                           3,150                   1,900         1,900         2,100          7,490        53,690           50,160      51,400
OPERATOIM EXPENSES
Scince aid Wages
Manager . ......................3,6oo                                                                   3,6oo         3,600          3,600         3,600             3,600    3,600
Chief Clerk......................1,200                                                                  1,200         1,200          1,200         1,200            1,200       1,200
Field Anslotas,t        ................                                                    600           60             o 6oo         600             600          600 o         6o
Driver           ) -600                                                                                 1,200         1,200          1,200         1,200            1,200       1,200
Herdsman  Laborer ) ~                                                                      ,0            ,0            ,0             ,0            ,0               ,0          ,
Guard          -  ~~..................                                                  0            800          800)           800           800               800         800
Sub-Tatal ....................8,500                                                               10,200        11,400         11,500        11,500           11,500      11,500
Fmscirg .....           ............                                                         0             7             4              1             1                 1 
Firebre.ks, Access Tracks andi Roads .0.370.510                                                                                                      510.510.51
Stock Koodling Facxltine ..................0                                                                             50             70            70                70          70
Water supply.520                                                                                                                        22                                         22
Bualdiongs.7..........................8O                                                                                800            800)          800               8cc        800
Sub-Totl.1  ...................1,200                                                               1.830         1,910          2,000  -      2,000            2,000       2,000O
Runoing Costs of Vehicles
Tr.ctonlj/ .......................1,500                                                                 1,500         1,500          1, 500        1,500            1,500       1,500
Motorcycle I2/....................160                                                                     i6o           160            160           160               160    itO
Sub-Tctal .1..................                                                        ,660         i,660         1,660          i,66o         1,660            1,a6o   1,s60
RePlacesiert of Vehicles cod Equipment 52/ .......1,765                                                 1,765         1,765          1,765         1,765             1,765       1,705
Animl Health
Vaccineo soad Drugs 214/ ................570                                                              629           785          1,032         1,050             1,059      1, 05 9
Insectciides jj/..............I....1                                                         313          519           523             688           700              706         706
Sub-Tot.al ....................783                                                                 1,05          1,308          1,720         1,750            1,765    1,765
Posture NM-teoaose
Son  Posture lb/ ...................-                                                                   2,250         5,500          6,750         6,750             6,750      6,750
Naturai Pasture 17/ ..................2,700                                                             2,700         2.700          2.700         7,700             2.700       2,700
Sob-Tota.7 ...................                                                        ,700         5, 950)       7,200          9,550         9,550            9,4550      9,550
Miscellaneouc A/ ...................825                                                                 1.075         1,260)         i,5cc         1.500             1.500      1.500
TOTAL OPERATI2O EXPENSES       ..                               17....0.17..333.22,528..26.703                                      29395         295529.440                   2 94450
LIVESTOCK PU.RCHASES 19/
Sullo  ,, S.......................                                  160                   1,800            75 0          500            750           750            1,000       1,000C
Is-Cait Cows/Helfers 21./ ...............5 0.000                                                       20, 20             --
TOT .1 LIVESTOCK PURCRASE,S         .........20.750.....750.750...000                                                                                                           1.000
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES AM0 LIVESTOOK PURtCHASE 1.160.58.83                                                  753.7        27003015                     30.1754          3I55        30.50
1/  N200 per bead.                                                                                              14/    N0.5 per AS per year.
.2/  EN20  Per head.                                                                                              Nl 90.0per AU per yeor.
N1/5200 per bead.                                                                                             1/     2.5 cot of triple superphosphate per so par year at N050 pe  too.
5/Ni5Ope rhead.                                                                                               Z7/    1 cot of triple aoperphospbate per cc per year at 90-60 per too-
1/   900 Per bead.                                                                                                    300 am.
6/N2190 per head.                                                                                              1/      5% of operating expenses.
42/  N600 per head.                                                                                              52 '/    Lieastock purchases duruog PY's 2 and 3 are treoted as developoent
8/  54600 per year.                                                                                                    costs for fisancong purposes.
2~~~ 54500 per year.                                                               50/    E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~250 per biead.
5-01l  5% of soostosctaon cost beginning sath year fsllowing construction.  ososuss  values                      520     E200 per be ad.
of old otructure- as folloos,  fe-i" N  6,000; water supply, Nh,0co; building,u  N24,000.
1/1, 000 working hours per year at r1.5o per hour for fuel, Oil, grease, spare parts
and repairs
iL/  8,00o ail   Par Year at NO.02 P-r mile for fuel, oil, goa          pare parts, repairs
and insurance.
i,/  ].59 of cost beelsoogn ofth year ofaoVltis
Deceber 14, 1.973



AM 6
NOW
1.23800 M810,0N6O .   I1C
hal". tPeratasu Boom. sod Livestock Purees..s
Pr.oeCt
lhvelcaeot  2          ,j              S~~~~                                                                ~ ~~ 6   8  59-21
Null Thil. 1/ ................                      00              --800                                         1,011           2.800           3,600           3,800       4.030o
'10  C..  7                                      7,0                --9,1.1.                                    12,4.80          31,360          39,200          39,200      39,200
t4ier  (23e'nJ                                                      -               - :-                             -               -           1.8,600         85,000     121,200
Ilfefra (3-1. pete)*                             7,350                                                       -                     - -----
Ouea&lo(2-3 yamrs) 2'---                                                                                      -           4.6,500         73,200           917,910i    122,10D
Su.ers/iuOa (3-1.yews) 7/2,50                                    21,47          21,470          21,850           22,230          38,00 ODD 
tse10og Ball. (2-3...........                                                 -               -               -3,600                       7,00             0.0        1,000
Purhased Steer.  8/ .........100.1w0                                                           37              519.20D3         W 63.2.0        51204           9A          402.21.0
TOAL LIVESTOCK SAIM............               37,020           21,4.70        121,630         389,690         556,910         752,500         690,6o           695,790     203,74.0
2MPUITIIE t091I2
Sale-st es Wag..
to-uctot.           .....                                              5.000           5,000           5        .030 5 ooon   5,000                    5,000  51o            .o
Satager.....I........3,500                                                3,500          3,500            3,500          .3,500           3,500           3,500        3,500
.he   .ir   1.............                                  ,6oo           i,6oo           1,60o           i,6oc           1,600           1,600            I 160o      1,60
Plant 4srator     ..............1,02                                    1,000           1,200           1.200            1,200           1,200           1.200       1, 20'0
rus  lshiteo                                              1,8001           2,500          3,000            3,000           3,0DOD          3, ODD          3,000       3, 003O
H3d.M/.:            .......  ....1,200                                         2,.00o         2,1.OO           2,500           2,40D           2,4.00          2,500        2,400
HordaecAebora      ...........                            6,0001         10,0ODD         16,000          16, oDo         16,000          16,00            16,033i     i0,000D
O.A,d               .............1.200                                         1.600           2.000          2..             2.00             2. ODO           2.000       2.000O
3.ub-Total  ............21,500                                         27,700         34,700           35,700          34,700          34,700          34,700       35,700
YOouo.=................1,500                                                  1,920          2,340            2,760           2,762           2,760           2,760        2,760
Puro1.roelc,, fleece Tracks sad Road          -             ~~~110          220              335             335             335             335          335
Slt-k H.Milig facilltiee ad Dp ...050                                           560             580              580             580             580             Sob          580
heir~pj    .............                                       o, 80           3,c0E5          3,725           3,725           3,725           3,725            3,725       3,75
Buulds,e .    ...............                                   .CO           h  7            5.175                                            5.1. 225'       Lk            .2
&SbT.tcai   ...........                                 6,550          10,370          11,91.0         12,725          12,725          :2,725           12,705      12,725
Tr-ctor, 9h.90 alnsd Eqlpsact F,.
Tru.to, 12/ ...............2,250                                               5,5oo           5,500           5,50 So           5o ,500                       5,5oo        5,500
F-i Wh.se  Vriro Vehicle !/ ...1,300                                           1,300           1,300           1,300           1,300           1,300           1.300        1,300
T-     / ..............1,500                                                   1,500           1,500           1,500           1,500           1,500           1,500        1,500
p-    .4  .........................1.150                       1.150           1.150           1,352           1. 15D          1.050            L1510       1.150
S.b-Tote2...........                                   6,200           8,h5o           8,45o            8,450           8,450           8,1.50          8,45D       e,450
Osplce-t of SehICus ed 2qcip-at 42 ,9601.                                        6d2Oo            6,4oo           6,420           6,4.20          6,1.20          6,4.2o       6,4.20
IVatcIesedw 1k,so /                                           3,000            6,00            8,25           10,500          10,503          '0,500          lO,50o       10,500
Iossctlcidos 17/           ...2,000                            00    h0OOO                           7.ODO           7.L.            ..LW                          .z
Otub-T.tai   ...........                                5,000          10,000          13,750          17,5oo          17,500          17,500          17,500       17,500
Scoe Patture  JO/ ............-                                              322500           02,500          33,750          33,750          53,750          33,750       33,750
asciPesters  121  .........                               27.000          27.OD320 DOO~                   27J. 003.7000                   277.2CC                      27.000
fib-Totel  ............27,000                                          30,250    a    49,500           60,750          60,750          60,750          60,750    .6o, 750
lAOo-all,,onno  220/............                                 3.060            5.060           6.240          2025            7. 025          7,025          2.021         7.025
TOTA OP0.   I  MyKK&*0.............              Zia             7A.770         12k.250       R117a02           147.570         iWiZ80          R______L a O
fine  22.1.::.......                        80         52,000           3,750           5,000o           5,750           5,500           2,500           2,500       2,500
Stes -al   ..........2      .                                50,200           52,600         59,8000          61,200          78,000              -               --
Steel,                             ~~          ~~~~~~ ~~- -Zm950  250.910       364.210         442,090          A6.100         3222.610         281.19
TTLORIN  MN               LIETOTCK  Mt3700   H881.1..8            12.00           37,6            1.1.00          122eOL9         1.6_600          =L12            Zat         AL4 -
03701095003 UfNno ,Ip Uzocc  PONnspa     2.62        UfLMj            513.10          516.0_0         656.610         594.170         iaLZ0           43l.560    Q1.215
17/    W1620 per lund.                                                                                  II/    10,000 el.a per Yeor at! 6a3W mile fur foal, oil, g_e._, spans parts,
T/    N060 par head.W                                                                                          rapi-a end ioeeoe
0/ 820 9ca hsad, :                                                                                         10,000 edi. Per Year at NO,$ nr eU.l for fuel, oil, sasse, sparn parts,
1(15 per head.                                                                                           fapairo eastlaorea
4/  19.0 per husd.                                                                                   3/      20% of net baeteac5in th yea of aeqlstlte    (incldes alpa4, atotiag
MM9 par head.                                                                                            poer plant nlued at N5,030o.
1200 per lead.                                                                                   3/      115prA  a  er
4/  tD per hed                                                                                       7       1.  e   0  a   er
9' lh0peryee.a25ctomrpespepaolFspra   a   er  at 9180 per teon,
~' 55 af cntactios moet beginning sits year tallest3g eastruotlos,. Amseesm  aloe.                                                                           a, 5%eX  persaUs  eapVWse..
of sld straaebene as follow,  felg, 930,0301 stock hendlla  fasilitius, SM                       3        retda   evl0ntnet  a P                 sa  ai   )
te  elar. #36,00, blollng, 360,000.                                                                        8pahed
33.1 p        ar  ed.
locabs, 14, 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 7
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NELC Ranches
Germral Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
(N)                     Proj ect
_______-_--- Year --------------
CATEGORY                                           Unit
Cost            2              3-21
FIXED INVESTMENT
Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                      4,500          4,500
Office Furnish1ngs
Office Furniture                                900            900
Office Equipment                                900            900
Sub-Total                                             1,800o
Physical Contingencies 10%                                     630
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                         6,930              -
OPERATI1; EXPENSES
Salaries
General Manager                                 7,000          7,000            7,000
Secretary/Accountant                            3,0oo          3,000            3,000
Chief Clerk/Typist                              1,600          1,600            1,600
Driver                                            600            600              600
Messenger                                         400            400              400
Sub-Total                                            12,600           12,600
Transport
Vehicle Running Expenses  1/                                   1,560            1,560
Vehicle Replacement  2/                                          900              900
Sub-Total                                             2,460            2,460
Office
Rental                                                           900              900
Stationery                                                       350              3'0
Postage                                                          350              350
Telephone                                                        250              250
Sub-Total                                             1,850            1,850
Audit and Professional Fees and Insurances                       3,6oo            3,600
Miscellaneous                                                      990              990
TOTAL OPERATINO EXPENSES                                        21,500           21,500
1/    12,000 miles per year atN 0.13 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs
and insurance.
2/    20% of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
December 14, 1973



ANNE( 6
Table 8
NICEERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NELC Ranches
Casb Flow
--    -------------- ------Proieot Year----- - - ------_--___
Before
Development      2           3          4          5           6          7           8     9-9-14    5fand
After
Cash Inflow
Livestock Sales - Darazo                           2,440      1,900       1,900      2,100      7,490      43,690     50,160      51,400     51,400    51,400
- Bornu                          28,840      21,470    121,630    389,690    554,910    752,500    690,640    695,790    703,740   703,740
Sub-Total
31,280     23,370    123,530    391,790    562,400    796,190    740,800    747,190   '755,140   755,140
Developmient Loan 1/                                -       262,250    306,873    351,897    356,853         -          -           -          -          -
State Government Equity Contribution 2/             -       250,000    250,000    100,00         - C-                   -           -          --
Total Cash Inflow                             31,280     535,625   680,403    843,687    919,253    796,1,90    740,800    747,190    755,140   755,140
Cash Outflow
Fixed Investment-General Administration             -         6,910        -          -          -                      -           -          -          -
-Darazo                             -        33,490     10,880      10,880       -
-Bornu                              -       169,580     99,500     73,320        -          -           -          -           -         -
Livestock Purchases - Darazo                         160     41,500      20,750        500        750         750      1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000
- Bornu                         580    123,150    307,260   418,010    509,040    446,600    325,130    283,990    283,990   283,990
Sub-Total Fixed Investment and Herd Build-up   -        374,650    438,390    502,710    509,790    447,350    326,130    284,990    284,990   284,990
Operating Expenses - General Administration         -        21,500      21,500     21,500     21,500      21,500     21,500      21,500     21,500    21,500
- Darazo                      17,326      17,333     22,528     26,503      29,395     29,425      29,440     29,440      29,440    29,440
- Bornu                       72,140      74,770    106,250    131,000    147,570    147,570    147.570    147,570    147,570   147,570
Sub-total Cash Outflow Before Loan Sevice    90,106    488,253    588,668    681,713    708,255    645,845    524,640    483,500    483,500   483,500
Development Loan Service                            -        12,457      39,490    70,'781    105,447    217,501    217,501    217,501    217,501         -
Total Cash Outflow                            90,106    500,710    628,158    752,494    812,702    863,346    742,141    701,001    701,001   483,500
Cash Balance - Annual                            (58,826)    34,915      52,245     91,193    106,551    (67,156)    (1,341-)  '46,189       54,139   271,640
- Cumulative                           -          -        87,160    178,353    284,904    217,748    216,507    262,596    316,735   588,375
1/  Development loan disbursed against 70% of total fixed investment and herd build-tp. The loan is at 914  for 13 years includirg 4 years grace.
2/ The a=ount of the contribution is calculated to provide adequate cash to cover against lags in disbursements and possible tax assessments.  The latter cannot be estimated
until the arrangements for taking over the ranches are known in detail.
The financial zate of return is 13.5 over 20 years based on,
(a)    total cash inflow from sales;
(b)    total cash outflow before loan service;
(c)    incremental herd value of N 1,211,280; and
(d)    taking no account of losses and sunk costs before develcpment.
December 14, 1973



bISERLK                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TableI
-LIVESTOCZ OW P}NT PROJECT
F       cn-ni   hunhes t(layr kun, Akun-) 24,000a  _E ach
tHid Profectisn (Each Ranch)
--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------~--------- ---J-FProject Year -----------------------------------------------------
Before
HERS COMPOSITION                  Develone1nt         2           3          4           5           6          7           8          9           10        it          12        13-21
Bulls ......................              70          68         80          90        102          99        115         132        137         156         157        157         157
Breeding Cows .1,200                               1,988      2,236      2,490       2,795       3,110      3,555      4,092       4,673       5,318      5,936       5,936       5,936
Weavers                                  656         860        994      1,342       1,743      2,096       2,333      2,666       3,069       3,505      4,004       4,452      4,452
Heifers 9-24 months                      325         318        417         487        658         854      1,027       1,143      1,307       1,312         715        715         715
In-calf Heifers ............             520           -          -           -          -           -          -           -                      --
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months ...             310         318        417         487        658         854      1,027       1,143        841         150         150        150         150
Steers, Purchased   ,       ,              -           -        850      1,946       2,787      2,063       1,254         465           -          -           -           -          -
Breeding Bulls, Bench Bred,
2-3 years .-                                          -          -           -          -          20         22          25         42          44          43         43          43
Total Animals .3081                            3,552      4.994       6.842       8,743      9.096       9.333      9.666      10.069     10. 505    11.005       11.453     11. 453
Total Animal Units, AU 1/           2,425      2,692       4,000      5,500       7,000      7,000       7,000      7,000       7,000      7,000       7,001       7,001      7,001
PURCHASES
Bulls .9                                               -          14    20    23    19                          21         25          14          16          -           -           -
Steers..                                                        850   1,946   2,787   2,063   1,254                       465           -           -
In-calf Cowe/Heifers                     520           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -
Total Purchases                       529           -        864      1,966       2,810      2,082       1,275        490          14          16
MORTAL ITY
Bull .2                                                2    2    2    2    2    2    3    3    4    4    4                                                                            4
Breeding Cows ...........,.               36          47          60         45          50         56          62         71          82         94         107        119         119
Weanrs .20                                            20          26         20          26         35          42         47          52          61         69          80          88
Heifers 9-24 months                       10          10          10          8          10         13          17         21          23          26         26          14          14
Steern/Bulls 9-24 months                  10           9          1o     S               10         13          17         21          23         17           3           3          3
Steers, Purchased..                                    -        -           _ 17        39          56         41          25           9           -       _         _           _
Total Mortality                        78         88         108         100        137         175        181         188        192         202         209        220         228
SAIES
CulBll Bs.                                 7           -   _                  8           9         20          23         27          31          35         39          39         39
Cull Cows .116                                         -           -        110         122        274        305         348        401         458         523         582        582
Heifers 9-24 months                         -          - -                    -           -          -           -           -          -         192      1,003      1,247       1,467
Steers 9-24 months .........                                            -                                        -          -        466       1,354       1,568      1,812       2,032
Heifers 2-3 years                        148           -           -          -           -          -          25         50          56          64         58           -           -
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years                   301         301        308         409        477         575        750         901         978        680           -
Steers, Purchased        .-                            -          -         833      1,907       2,731      2,022       1,229        456            -          -
Breeding Bulls, Ranch Bred,2-3 yrs   -                                   -           -              50          65         80         100        100       104          104         104
Total Sales .............             572        301         308      1,360       2,515      3,650       3,190      2,635       2,488       2,883      3,295       3,784      4,224
TECHNICA, COEFFICIBITS
Calves WeaAed %    .        .....         55          50          50         60          70         75          75         75          75          75         75          75          75
Mortality %   .            .3                          3           3           2          2           2          2           2          2           2           2          2           2
Culling Rate Bulls %                       10          0           0         10          10         20          20          20         20          20         20          20          20
Culling Rate Cows %  ........              10          0           0          5           5         10          10          10         10          10         10          10          10
Culling Rate Heifers 9-24 months %    0                0           0          0           0          0           0           0          0          13         58          64         67
Culling Rate Heifers 2-3  years %           0          0           0          0           0          0           3          5           5           5          4.5         -           -
Bulls s  %  of Breeding  Females            3          3           3          3           3           3          3           3          3           3           3          3           3
Stocking Rate:  acres/AU                  10           8.9         6          4.4         3.4        3.4         3.4         3.4        3.4         3.4        3.4         3.4         3.4
1/    An Animal Jnit is equivalent to an animal of one year of age or more.
Dermber 14, 1973



ANNEX 7
NIGERIA                                                                Table I
LIVESTOCK DEELOPHEN  PROJET
-WLc Reaches
Start up Ranches fOghboro. Oke-Ako. lbarapa) - 24. 000 ac Rach-
Herd Ppoiectior~ (Eachian,h)
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- Project   Yea - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Befr
Develo= nt2          2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9         10        11-21
HERD CO400SflI0N
Bulls..............31                                   30         52         73         96       128        220        1~40       151       153        153
Breedinig Cows..........                  1,031      1,000      1,470      2,186     2,775      3,506      3,827      4,375      5,096     5,096      5,096
Weassers.-                                             515        500        882     1,530      2,081      2,630      2,870      3,281     3,822      3,822
Heifers 92mots-                                                   250        245       432        750      1,020      1,289        613       613        613
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months ....-                                    250        245       432        750      1,020        1.66      120        220        320
Steers, PurchaLsed........                1,000        970      1,478      2,251     2,265        866          -          -          -          -         -
Breeding Bulls, Ranch Bred, 2-3 yrs            -          -         -                                         25         30         20        18         18
Total Anisal........                    2,06      2,515      4j000     5,882      7,530      8,8        8 !a       8,870     9,281      9,822      9,822
Total Animal Units 2/ ....             2,062      2,000      3,500      5,000     6,ooo      6,000      6,01       6,000     6,000      6,0occ     6,ooo
PURCHASES
BuIs ..............31                                    -         23         22         32        43         20         26         17         18        iS
in-calf Cows/Hetfers ......               1,031          -        500        500       500        500          -          -          -         -          -
Steers .............                      1,000        970      1,478     2,251      2,265        866          -          -          ---
Total Purchases .......                2,062        970      2,001     2,773      2,797      1,409         20         26        17         18         18
MORTAlITY
Bulls .............-                                     1          1          1          2         2          3          3          3          3         3
Breeding Cows ...... ...-                               31         30         29         44        56         70         77         88       102        102
Weaners ........I....-                                             15         10         18        30         41         52         58        65         76
Heitfers 9-24 months ......                               -             -      5          5          9        15         20         26         12        12
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months ....-                                      -          5          5         9         15         20          3     - 2            2
Halters 2-3 years .......                                           -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years .....-                                       -          -          -          -         -----
Steers, Purchased .......-                              30         29         30         45        45         17----
Total Mortality .......-                             62         75         80       ll-9       151        161        172        178       i84        195
SALES
Cull Bulls ....... .....-                                 -         -          -          7         9         25         28         33         33        33
CullI Cows .......        . I...-                         -         -          -        107       136        344        375        454       499        499
Batters 9-24 months ......-                               -         -          -          -          -         -          -        793       995      1,260
Steers/Bulls 9-24 months ....                       -          -          -         -                -         -      1,123      1,286     1,488      1,793
Steers/Bulls 2-3 years ......-                                      -        245       240        423        660        900         45          -         -
Steers, Puirchaedel.......                     -       970        941      1,448     2,206      2,220        84;          -          -          -         -
Breeding 'Bulls, Ranch Bred, 2-3 yrs           -          -         -          -          -          -        50         70         98        100       100
Total Sales  -.........970                                     941      1,693     2,560      2,788      1,928     2,496      2,709      3,ll5      3,645
TECHNITCAL COEFFICIENTS
calves weaned~                                 - .......   50      50         60         70        75         75         75         75         75        75
Mortality %.-..........3                                            3          2          2         2          2          2          2          2-        2
CullingBRate Dulls %                           -......0             0          0         10        10         20         20         20        20         20
Culling Rate Cows %  .......0                                       0          0          5 ~    5            10         10         10         10        10
Culling RateBHeifers -24kmonths %-                        0         0          0          0         0          0          0         56         62        67
Bulls as %of Breeding Females-                            3         3          3          3         3          3          3          3          3         3
Stocking Bate:  acres/Au  -....                                     6.6        4.8        4         4          4          4          4          4         4
R/ epresents animals purchased at beginning of Year 1.
2/ An, Animal Unit is ecuivalent to an animal of one year of age or more.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 7
NIGERIA                                                       Table I
LIVESTOCC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-tRsnches
O*-Geing Ranclbes CgJer Ogun. ,,Ahl) - 24.000 ac Each
Invst3at Costs (Each Ranch)
(N)
_ _------------------Project Year ----- --- +
Unit       ------2-------       --------3------        ------ 4____---             TOTAL
CATEGORY                                                       Unit       Cost      Units        Cost     Units        Cost      Units       Cost      Units        Cost
FIXED IVESTMEPT
Firebreakcs and Roads
Firebreaks  and Access Tracks .................            Mile          20 10'1 701                                70C A                                       3,450
Roads.Mile    ~~~~                                                ~~ ~~~~~~          ~~ ~~239    1.150;  ,5           La4               . 1     l
....................... ........................................ .  Mil   , 
Sub-Total                                                I1,850                                                                3,85d             '     5,550
Water Developsent                                                          ,
Dam3  ..........................2......        ....        Unit      67             2     13.800,          1      6,900,                                3      20700
Fencing ....Ma Mile    700    io:                                                                         1 0 7.0001    10'  7000                      30  21.000
Housing and Ranch Buildings
House:  Herdsman/Laborer/Guard .....        ..........     Unit        5X          10      5,000!          -       _      -              _             10      5,000;
Storage Shed ..........      .......................       Unit      4,5O00         1                             -             -       _              1
Sub-Total.'                                                                       9,500                                                                9,500
Vehicles and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle ......................            Unit      4,500          1    4,500                                                          I      4,500
Tractor, 60-65 HP ........        ....................     Unit!   4,500             1    4,500            1     4,500                                  2         000
Truck, 5-Ton    .................................          Unit'    8,000,           1     8,000                                                        1        ,000
Trailer   ......................................           Unit'       800          1       800            1        800B         - _                    2      1,600
Disc Harrow    ..................................          Unit      1,100          1    1,100             -      -                                     1      1,100
Disc Plough (3 furrow) ......        .................     Unit        900          1       900            -      -              _,      -              1         900
Rotary Cutter    ................................          Unit        800,         r,      800 !.         1+      800           -       _              2      1,600
Rotary Fertilizer Distributor .....        ...........     Unit!       9001         1,      900            1       900           _       -              2      1,800
Levelling Harrow  ........      .....................      Unit'       500           1      500            -       -             -                      1        500
Seed Drill ...........      ........................       Unit'    1,800'           i    1,800            -       -             -       _              1      1,800
Tools, etc . ..................................             Set;       700           1'   700              -                     _ -     -              1         7rO
Veterinary Equipment .......        ..................      Setl       300         1       300            -      -              -       _              1         300
Power Plant J .........U.......................            Unit'    8,000         1/21   4,000             -       -             -       -            1/2      4, 000
spares 2/ ., 2.430                                                                                                 700                   -                     3.130
Sub-Total        ............................                                   31,230                  7,700                        -               38,930
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Bed Preparation and Sowing               Ac         25        500   12,500        i 5001   12,500        LSOCj   12,500         1,500     37,500
Fertilizer 2/ .................................             Ton        180   1 25   22,500               125 '  22,500  i      125    22,500          375     67,500
Seed  I .......................................              Lb          1.j20  5,000    6,000         5,000     6,000       5,000!    6,000      15,000      18,000
Pesticides 2/ .................................             Gal         10                   500    5-  5001                    500'   5 0      1,500      15,000
Sub-Total         ............................                                  46,000                 46,000                 46,ooo                138,000
Physical Contingencies 10% ......        ...............                                   10.940                  6.950                  5490                  23.380
TOTAL FDE   ISVESTI1T .......................                                             120,320                  76,400                60,340                257,060
_~ ~~~~~~''W _                                                                                 ..-    ____
1/    A power plant is required only at the Akuna ranch.
1/ 0% of cost of vehicles and equipsent excepting foar wheel drive vehicle.
/    Assu   application of triple superphosphate at 2.5 cwt per ac at sowing and 2.5 cwt per as 6 months  later.
Assumes sowing rate of 10 lb of mixture/ac.
A/ ssases application of one gal/ac of formicide.
December 14, 1973



NIGERIMOR7
Table 4
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WLC Ranches
Start-Up Ranches (Ogboro, Oke-Akn, Ibarapa) - 24,000 as Each
Investment Costs (Each Ranch)
(N)
Projlect Year
Unit      ------ 2               ------3------                      ---              TOTAL
CATEGORY                                                        Unit        Cost      Usits        Cost      Units        Cost      Units        Cost      Units        Cost
FIXED ISVESTMENT
Firebreaks and Roads
Firebreaks and Access Tracks .................              Mile         70          10        700          10        700          10       700           30      2,100
Roads .Mile   230                                                                     5  1.150               5  1.150               5  1 5                15  3.450
Sub-Total                                                                           1,850                  1,850                1,85Q                   5,550
Water Deselopment
Dams .Unit  7,000                                                                     2  14,000              1  7,000               1  7,00q               4  28,000
Stock Handdling Facilities ano Fencing
Handling Yard and Dip j. .Unit   4,600                                                1   4,600              1   4,600              -                      2   9,200
Cattle Scale .Unit  2,390                                                             1   2,300              -    -                 -                      1   2,300
Fencing .mile   700                                                                  10  7.000              10  7.000              10  7.000              30  21.000
Sub-Total                                                                         13,900                  11,600                7,000                  32,500
Hous ing and Ranch Buildings
Eouse: Manager           .           .Unit  20,000                                    1  20,000              -                      -                      1  20,000
Assistant Manager        .       .Unit    15,000                             1    15,000            -                      -                      1    15,000
Chief Clerk    .              .Unit  5,000                                   1   5,000              -                      -                      1   5,000
Plant Operator .Unit                                         3,000           1      3,000           -                      -                      1      3,000
Field Assistant/Driver                             Unit      1,000           7      7,000           2      2,000           -                      9      9,000
Herdsman/Laborer/Guard ..........a....             Unit        500          18      9,000         1 2  6,000              101   5,000            4O    20,000
Vehicle Shed/Workshop         .         .U........    . .   Unit      7,000D          1      7,000                                                         1      7,000
Cffice/Storeroots ...........................               Unit      2,500           1      2.500           _     -                       _               1      2.500
Sub-Total                                                                          68,500                  8,000                 5,000                 81,500
Vehicles and Equipment
Faur Wheel Drive Vehicle ......................             Unit      4,500            1     4,500                                   -                      1     4,500
Tractor, 60-65 P .Unit   4,500                                                        1   4,500              1   4,500                                     2 2    9,000
Truck, 5-Ton .Unit  8,000                                                             1  8,000                                                             1   8,000
Trailer .Unit  800                                                                    1   800                1   800                -                      2  1,600
Disc Harrow .Unit  1,100                                                              1  1,100               -                                             1  1,100
Disc Plough (3 furrow) .Unit                                            900           2      1,800                                  -                      21    1,800
Rotary Cutter .Unit   800                                                             1    800               1    803               -                      2   1,600
Rotary Fertilizer Distributor .Unit                                     900           1        900           1        900           -                      2      1,800
Levelling Harrow .Unit   500                                                          1    500                                      -                      1    500
Seed Drill .Unit  1,800                                                               1  1,800               -                                             I _  1  1,800
Tools, etc.                                                   Set  700                1   700                                                              1   700
Veterinary Equipment .Set   300                                                       1    300                                      -                      1    300
Power Plant .Unit  8,000                                                              -                      I  8,000               -                      1  8,000
Spre ';  ...... .' . . ...... ..............                                              .60                                              5  0  4.100
Spares .2/                                                                                   2.600                  1.500-
Sub-Total                                                                         28,300    ,             16,500                                       44,800
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Red Preparation and Sowing                Ac         tia        500    30,000i         500    30,000          500   30,000 |       1,500    90,000
Fertiliser  /.             ..........................        Too        180         125    22,500          125    22,500          125   22,500          5375    67,5001
Seed j/ ......................................                 Lb       1.20      5,000      6,000       5,000      6,000       5,000    6,000        15,000    18,000)
Pesticide  ..................................                 Gal        CO         500      5,000         500      5.000         500    5.0001   -1,500    15.000
Sub-Total                                                                          61,500                 63,500               63,500                 190,500
Physical Contingencies 10% 1..9000                                                                                     Q          i     S   8.450                  38,300
TOTAL FIEE TAVEM T                                                                           209.050 }19.300' -. _
it    Caeity of 1,0O0 heaS.
2/    107, of cost of vehicles and equipment escepting four wheel drive vehicle.
3!    Aas9uae  application of triple superphoephate at 2.5 cwt per ac at sowing and 2.5 cwt per ac 6   souths later.
4/    Assess sowing rate of 10 lb of mi.turelac.
5/    Aessees application of one gal/ac of formicide.
December 14, 1973



SNNBS 7
Table 5
LIVESTOCK D071VPE220n PROJECT
W10 Ranches
s Balg Raaches (Uppe OMn, Akaa -. 24,000 an Eac_h
Sales. Operatia  &P.-ce  and tLcvataik Prch-se. (Each R-nh)
137T0G0RY                                            D-nnnlp-tn       0          0           9                                                                    10          11          12       13-21
CmlT ",lln   I/ ..........           .-..-..1,360                                             1,330       3,90        3,310       4,530       5,270     5,950       0,630       6,630         6,630
lul  Can   27...............-                                            -       1, 303     15,863      35,620      39,653     45,290      52,030    50,590       63,990      75,660        75,6,60
hoern- (93259  -cths)  31 ..........                                                  -           -           -          -           -           -     23,000    120,360    169, 640        176,000
d.A-f-r  (2-3 year)    7                                       -          -....-..-..-                                5,000      10,007     11,200    12,800       11,400          --
Oten02s(9-24 aaathn)  j/ ..........                                                                               -           -      37,280   108,320    125,24,0    154,960         162,5bC
Iteern/Buln  (2-3 yearn    6/ ......                      36,120      36,960      49,080     57,240      69,000      90,000    108,120    117,360    81,600            -           -             -
Orn-L0r  )alln  (2-3 fears    7/  -......-                                            -           -       9,000O    11,700       15,400      08,000o   18,000      15,723      10,720        1B,720
P-rhan-d Ste-r   8/  -............116,620    266. 990    382.340    283.080    172,060                                                      63.850      -__-                       -             -
'0)A1 100017000 SALES            . 5.......36,120..3..94617181,380    31610    4999.360    433,390    3~44910    12L5.808   309,25                                3 70.04     395l1
0P08TI1C EXPENSES1
F-cgor.................                                    5,000       5,000       2,000       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000     5,000       5, -,0      5,000         5,00
;cclnnact Maaer.g. ............3,500                                   3,500       0,2900     3,500       3,500O      3, 500      3,500       3,500     3,500       31,530      3,500         3,500
,Sa-l Clark.1..............,600                                        1,600       0,600      1, 630      1,830       1, 600      1,600       1,600o    O,aOO       0,600       1,000         1,600
Plan.t  .p.r....r/....a..a                                 1,200       1, 20 0     1,200       1,200      1,200       1,000       1,200       1,200     0,200       1, 200      1,200         1,200
FOied A-nta-t   91~,.. 1.......1,800                                   2,400       3,000      3,00O       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000     3,000       3,000       3,000         3,OC0
Oma..            )-............1,200                                   2,900       7,400      2,900       2,900       2,900       2,500       2,500     2,900       2,400       2,900         2,900
dnrdemsn/laoarnr 10.6,200                                        10,000     16,000      16,000O    16,000       10,000     i6,ooo      06,000    16,000       16,000      16,000        14,000
Onard             )-1.200                                              1.800       2,000       2,000       2,000      7,700       7,000       2.000      2.000      2.080       2,000         9,554
8tb-Octal ..............22,300                                   27,700      35,,700    34,700      39,700      35,700      34,700     39,700    35,700       34,700      39,700        39,7001
Fenacag .1...............                                     75        1,120       1,945,    1,810       1,910       0,00 0      l,8i0       1,810      1,810      1,510)      1,800         0,013
Firrhrraka, Access Traces  nd Ocads  ....-                                95         185         080         280        iot         280         280        284,        280        280            280
Sta, Handling Fadlltnes cad Dip  ....250                                250         250         2)0         250         750        250         05~0       250         250         250           2570
Water Sapply .................o                                        t,15o       1,980       1,485      1,485       1,985       i,485       1,555      1,1485     1,985       1,485         1 ,555e
Ouhl&ngc.   ................                        .      150         2,280       2,280       2,284      25280       2,280       2,28        260 2.8     ,484      2,284       2.201         24424
Oct-Tctal ..............3,275                                     1,885       5,6a5      6,io5       6,t05       6,100       6,135      6,_05      6,ic5       0,165       6,111         1,05
Vehic1c c-d Eqinprect
T-tcore  12/ ...............3,250                                      4,500       9, 500      9,50o      4,500       L5,00       9,500       4,500      4,5oo      45,000      4,5oo         9,500
Far Whaeel DrIes Vshicln I/ ...1,300                                   1,300       1,300       1,300      1,300       1,300       1,300       1,300      1,300      1,300       1,300)        1,300
Teac   14/ ............1,000                                           1,500c      1,500       1,100      1,000       1,500       1,500       1,500     1,500       1,500       1,500         1,500
Pacer flash.1..........50....                                 i        4,444       1,3150      1,150      1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150     1.     1150 1.10        111           1,150
Sal-Tcta.1   .............6,200                                   8,450       8,950      8,950       8,4551      9,51        8,950      8,150      8,95o       8,950       8,450         8,4510
hep:ace-t AL VehIcl  sd Eq-ap-et  2.                          5,370      6.0770      6,770       6,770       6,770      6,771       6,770       6,770      6,771       1, 770     6,772         6,770
kalcal Health
Vaci-c  and Drugs  16/.....9,o4o                                       6,050       8,250     15,500      10,50@      10,500      00,500      10,500    10,500      10,500      1>600         10,500
Iconaici dna  !I/ .............2.692                                  49.D         5_ C       7000 5.500  7.020  7,000 ",544O                7,002 ASC         7,000  7. 000            7,03   7000
S.b-Tatal ..............6,732                                    10,000      13,750     17.500      10,500      17,500      17,500      17,500    17,513      17,100      17,500        17,503
P-c-oarle icstese-a
dSa- Pa-=,en    9 8.......-                                           11,250,    22,500      221,720      33,710O    33,750      33,750      33,750    33,700       33,750     33,750        33,750
Scna  Bna     19/......8......,2oo                           10,    1,000 24_544    C)54O       44,45 COO                5, 18.0 00  18,000    18,000    10.000B x    IOO           45,454
S.h-T.tl.10.............                              8,mo0      29,250      40,500     51,75o      51,050      51,750      51,7510     51,750    51,710      51,750      51,750        57,750
BMincalace-   20/.............             .                  3.095      49.350       5.990      626         6,265       1 ,265     6 75   6265       6,265      6      .265 _n.L 265            6,265
TOTA1. OPERATIIO EXPENES..........0.. 18                     69,972      1,90      115,325    131,590    131,550    131,55        131,590    131,59    131,550    o1,9oa   031,550            131,563
LIVESTOGK P02HA045S 21/
Hello  22/................-                                            5,900       7,000       8,050       6,aOo      7,356       8,750       4,700      5,600          ---
Otners  54/ ...............             .-                            85.000    194.630    278.700    2 16,300    125,100        66,5100                                 
TOTAL LIVE1T008 P10C2SE   ............    35020                                    201200 600 5 28645430    272,950    132.750     55,251       9.900   ,54, 40           -
TOTAL OPERA71N0 EXPENSES AND LIVESTOCK PURCHTASES   9655          69.972   1i1i305    316,925    918.290         59,499     269.290    186,790    036.26    137.150    131,5ho    131,540           131.59o
_I,9    1170 per head.                                                                                                 LS/   207 af ..s. at  ara-taro, echias and aqaipact -sd 10% at ... at fpave
2j/   2N130 per head.                                                                                                        pl.et hegiosing with y-e  cf eaqiheiains.  Enistis p-an  plast a-Uppar
31    01120 per land.                                                                                                  16'   "0.5--ter 57 per year
N/ 200 per head                                                                                                     17/   01.00 pn  0   eryer
N    per    d                                                                                                 517/   2.3 tw  at triple eape-phaphete per en per yea  at,N1B  pee tea,
20 IB  per head.                                                                                                  19/   1_cat at triple .sp-ephoephate pee a  pee yea  It 0188 pee ten  2a,882e
7/    N1400 p-e head.                                                                                                  T/   55- of aPer..ti  cei --t
3,    0190 per head,                                                                     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 /   Trectcd ae dsnelapas  aceatI  yearn 3  cd 94se  TInl. 17).
9/ N600 per head.                                                                                                  al/  1352 Per head.
94/    000 per head.                                                                                                -31   1103 per head.
11  5   f na-et-atia  cast behecinig  dth year tfl1ca-ng anatrutj-a  Anoes- ealne  nO  ld 
nautarte as fnl11ne,  fonchg, N65,500,  t- cah-bdllag fa-iliti-s, N5,000; cater spply,
09,000; huild-ags, N236,000.
12-/    1,500 a-keg hcn per Year an N1.55 per hour for fuel, nil, grease,  Pare pten  cad repar.
4/ 10,000 milee per year at B 0.13 per salO  far toel, all, grease, spars parts, rpepirs and i--ra-e
10,000 allen per year at 20 0.15 per ails far Ocel, al, grea, spare parts, repac  and iha.n-rce
December 19, 1973



ANNEX 7
Table 6
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT7
IIC ~Ranches
Start-Up Ranc.hes fOgbore  Oke-Akc, Ib.anapa)_-_24,00aEc
Slar,  sOpating RaEness assd Lie-t-kh Pereha-e  (Each Ranc h)
(N)
CATEGORY_                                                                2           3           4            56                       7           0           9            10            01-21
10111S
Cell Sells   1/ ......-                                                      -            -       1,190        1,530       4,250       4,760        5,610        5,610            5,610
Cel  Cans   57 .-.....-.....-....13,910                                                                       17,660      44,720      46,750       59.020       64,870           64,870
Helier  (9-24 ecetha)   3/.-....-...-...-                                                                         -            -           -       91,160      119,400          151,200
S--cere /11  (9-24 creche)   ..A.-.........-                                                                      -            -      89.840    102,800        119,040          140,240
lccrre/Bells  (2-3 year)   5/-                                               -       29,400      29,900       50,760      79,200    108,1000        5,400            -    --
Breedicg lulls (2-3 years)   6/                                  -           -            -           -           -        9,000       12,600      17,640        18,609           18,6000
Purhased Steers  _/...............                         15,800    13,740    202.720    308.840    310.801    118.866                    -           -             -                -
TOTAT,LIVES10OCK SALES.............                        135_800    1176          2200         5240       3076          5630       263.950    285.710        3690             329,920
OPERATING EXPENSES
la1-ie- aed Rages
Mange.0,503..................                                       5,0    500C       5,000        5,111       5,300       5,000        5,600       u,000         0,009            5,000
Asi.teaR  Mea-gen.......              .53,500                             3,506       3,500        3,500       3,5000       3,360       3,500       3,500         3,500            3,500
C46cr Clerk  ......... ...1,600                                           1,600       1,636       1.600        1,606       1,600        1,600       1,600        1,600             1,600
Plac t Gperase-/Mechacic .0..........                          ,200       1,200       1,200       1,300        1,200       1,200        1,300       1,200         1,200            1,200
Field A-ilstaet    8.1.....                                    600O      2,400       3,000        3,6000      3,000        3,000       5,000       5,000         3,006            5,000
Delvr               -. .............                        1,200        2,400       2,450       2,400        2,400       2,400       2,400        2,400        2,400            2,400
Herd-ae/Lahcr.rr       /.......:....                         6,003        8,800      14,090      14,1000      14,3000     14,000       14,000      10,000        14,000           14,066
Geard                    .......    ...                      1.200      1J600         2.030        MOOQ        j,000      .2.000        2.000       2.006         2.000           ..L000
S.h-Tcta.1   ...............                           21,100      26,500      32,700       32,700      52,700       32,700      32,700      32,700        32,700           32,700
Msiaten....r 00/
en-lg ....................345                                                           600        1,035       1,535       1,035        1,035       1,035        1,035             1,035
Fireeakead Ras95                                                                        135          280         200          280         280         280           200              280
Star  M     idle  Fcltiesae  lp  ......345                                              575          575         575         575          571         175           575              575
Wacer lepply.............690                                                          1,035        1,380       1,380       1,360        1,380       1,380         1,386            1,380
Buildings.2.......I......3410                                                         3,810       4.060        4,360       4,060        4.060       4.060         4.060           4,060
S.h-Tao.6. ...............                                           ,805        6,245       7,330       7,330        7,530       7,330       7,530         7,550            7,330
Tne-C.,a, Vehicle and 1qispnn ..t      esn
.r...c_ (I. .................                               2,250        4,500       4,500       4,500        4,500       4,500       4,500        4,000        4,500            4,500
Fac  WheelDreEv  Vehicle  12/ .........                      1,300        1,300       1,350       1,300        1,300       1,300        1,300       1,300         1,300            1,300
Onech  13/1,505                                                           1,580       1,500        1,500       1,500       1,5000       1,5000      1,500         1,500            1,500
year  plant..                                                               22        1,150        1.150       1.150       1,150        120         12220         1.153            1.150
Seb-Toa.I.    ...............                           5,090       6,430        8,450       8,400       0,400        8,400       8,450       8,450         8,450            8,4500
Replacenct sO Vehicles cod Eqeip-ert  14/...                    5,140       7,370       7,376        7,370       7,570        7,370       7,370       7,570         7,370            7,370
Anleal Health
Vaccine  and Dregs  137............                          3,005        5,250       7,550       9,000        9,2000      9,000        9,060       9,000         9,009            9,000
1aserticides   16/ ...............                           2.000        3.500       5,999        6.000      69,000       6,000        6.000       6.000         6.000            6.000
Sob-Trtal ................                              5,003       8,750       12,500      15,006      15,300       15,000      10,000      15,000        10,000           15,000
Pa-tore Maintenne
Inper-ed P-stae  17/..............                               -       11,250      22,500      33,750       33,750      33,750      53,750       55,750       55,750            33,750
Natarel Pessare  1a/..............                          18.003       18,000      18 005       18,000       MO,99      18,999         a......    ....,.....   180              18.008
Sch-Teta.1   ...............                           18,003      29.250      40,500       01,710      51,750       11,750      51,750      51,750        01,750           51,750
Slselere 19/...............                            2.735        4.260       5 590      6,1309  6..1&U0           6,130      6j130    69 130             6.130           6.130
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSESO............                         57 6420      89 4635     1,5         128 '30     128 730    1870          120 730     6275          18731870
LIVESTOCK PURCHASES 20/
Bells  21/..................                                10,853        0,050       7,700O     11,208       15,050       7,500        9,100       5,930         6,309            6,300
Ic-Calf Cesas/Mnilers  22/ ..........                      206,200    100,000    100,000    100,800    100,300                 -           -           -             -                -
Se.ren    23/..................                            197.000      147.800    225 100    .2929950        86,600           ---                                      
TOTAL LIVESTOCK PURCHASES0.414.050.255850.332.830                                               337_700    2160            7.5-00       9_100       5.~950        6_300            6_300
TOTAL 0PERAT1N1 EXPENSES AND LIVESTOCYR PURCH8ASRES          4160          6 1        440.9055    4640         3030        1620          3,5         3.8           3.3 ~155.030
_0/  0170 per head.                                                                                                           14/ 281% of rest of teatrer, -hielee and eqeip-tr red 107.
2/1  N130 pen brad,                                                                                                                of  orE   f Pawe  plant he.girlog riCh year sOorpfiin
3/  N120 per head.                                                                                                            15/  0,5  per AU per yea..
-4/  080 Per head.                                                                                                            16/ N1.80 pen AU pen year.
5/  0123 per bead.                                                                                                           17/ 2.3 cnn af triple sap.rphasphate pen or Per Yea  at N180
6/  N1180 par head,                                                                                                               Pen ten,
7/  N010 per head.                                                                                                           18/ 1 ewE ef triple saperpkrephate Per an per year at NI80
8/  0600 pen peer,                                                                                                                par tenon. 2,000 an.
9O/Y/03 per yer.~i    osbei ngwtyar19/ 91. ef operting  -epenecs
10/  150, aG  aniengtiorn cot NeIen50  P rich.   year folblowing ronirartior.                                                  20/ Treated as develap.-ta cost in yre.r  2-4 (err Table    )
11/  1  00 aebio8  ares  t NO.0 perbear  or Osel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and in-rare,                 Tl / N1300 pen head.
1L2/  10,000  ilre per year  at N1 0.13 par nile far  eal, oil, greas, spare Parts, repairs aed Inurnn.                         j  N020 pen head.
13/  10,000 riles per year at N 0.15 pee nile for fael, oil, grease~, spare parts, repairs and inscranne.                      L2/ NIOSE pee head.
Drenher 14, 1975



ANNEX 7
NIGERIA                                  Table 7
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WLC Ranches
General Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
CN)
 ----------- Year -----------
Unit
Cost             2        3-20
CATEGORY
FIXED INVESTMENT
Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                           4,500          4,500
Office Furnishings
Office Furniture                                   1,150         1,150           -
Office Equipment                                   1,150         1,150           -
Sub-Total                                                   2,300           -
PhysicaL Contingencies 10%                                         680           -
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                            7,480          -
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries
General Manager                                    7,000          7,000     7,000
Secretary/Accountant                               3,ooo          3,000     3,000
Chief Clerk/Typist                                 1,600         1,600      1,600
Driver                                               600           600        600
Messenger                                            400            400       400
Sub-TotaL                                   12,600         12,600    12,600
Transport
Vehicle Running Expenses %                                       1,560      1,560
Vehicle Replacement g                                               900       900
Sub-Total                                                   ?4429      aA&Q
Office
Rental                                             1,150         1,150      L,150
Stationery                                           460            460       460
Postage                                              460           460        460
Telephone                                            575            575       575
Sub-Total                                    2Z62           2 *4         6
Audit and Professional Fees and Insurances                       6,240      6,240
Miscellaneous                                                    1,055      L,D55
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES
2      12,000 miles per year at N 0.13 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts,
repa.rs and _nsurance.
2/    20% of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
December 14, 1973



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
bWLC Ranches
Cash Flow
(N)
------------------ect--------------a-------__---------------------------------Pjet Ycar-------_---________- ________________-____-_________________-___-___
Before
Development           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9          10           11           12          13          14         if and
After
Cash Inflow
Livestock Sales - On-going Ranches                      108,348            72,240      73,920    362,720    683,220    998,720    866,680    708,820    610,160            618,500      701,480      791,220    879,220    879,220        879,220
Start-up Ranches                        -             407.400    395.220    696.360  1.058.220  1,142,310    768.090    791.850    857,130    910,760  1,139.760   1,139.760  1,139,760  1,139,760  1,139,760
108,348          479,640    469,140  1,059,080  1,741,440  2,141,030  1,634,770  1,500,670  1,467,290  1,599,260  1,841,240   1,95o,980  2,018,980  2,018,980  2,018,980
Development Loan 1/                                        -           1,482,194  1,020,635  1,260,476  1,110,620           -            -           -           -           -            -            -           -             -           -
state Govern-ent Equity Contribution 2!                    -              800,000    700.000    500.000                            -           -           -           -                  -           -             -                        -
Total Cash Inflow                                 108,348         2,761,834  2,189.775  2,819.556  2.852.060  2,141.030  1.634,770  1.500.670  1.467,290  1,599.260  1.841.240   1.930.980  2,018.980  2.018.980  2.018.980
Cash Outflow
Fixed Investnents - General Administration                 -                7,480        -           -           -          -            -           -           -           -            -            -           -             -           -
- On-going Ranches                     -              240,640    152,800    120,680
- Start-up Ranches                     -              627,150    357,900      278,400
Livestock Purchases - On-going Ranches                   76,040              -        179,800    403,200    573,500    425,900    265,500    110,500             9,800      11,200        -            -           -             -           -
- Start-up Ranchos                   -           1.242,150    767.550    998,400  1,013,100    604.950           22.500       27.300      17,850      18.900       18,900       18,900      18,900       18,900      18,900
Sob-total Fixed Investment and Ilerd Build-Up                     2,117,420  1,458,050  1,800,680  1,586,600  1,030,850    288,000    137,800             27,650       30,100      18,900        18,900      18,900      18,900       18,900
Operating Expenses - Genera! Administration                -               25,000      25,000      25,000      25,000      25,000       25,000      25,000      25,000      25,000       25,000       25,000      25,000       25,000      25,000
- On-going Ranches                  17,108           129,944    182,810    230,650    263,080    263,080    263,080    263,080    263,080             263,080      263,080      263,080     263,080      263,080     263,080
- Start-up Ranches                    -              172,275    268,395    339,465    386.190    386.190    386.190    386.190    386.190    386,190    386.190                 386.190    386.190    386.190    386,190
Sob-total Cash Outflow Before L-ar Service         93,148         2,444,639  1,934,255  2,395,795  2,260,870  1,705,120    962,270    812,070    701,920    704,370    693,170                 693,170    693,170    693,170    693,170
Development Loan Service                              -              70,404    189.888    298,241    410.868    463.023    897.025    897.025    897.025              897,025    897.025       897.025    897.025    897.025            -
Total Cash Outflow                                 93J148         2,515,043  2.124.143  2,694.036  2,671.738  2,168.143  1,859.295  1,709.095  1,598.945  1,601,395  1,590.195  1.590,195   1,590.195  1,590,195                    712,070
Cash Balance - Annual                                     15,200           246,791      65,632     125,520    180,322    (27,113)  (224,525)  (208,425)  (131,655)            (2,135)   251,045       340,785    428,785    428,785  1,306,910
- Cumulative                                  -                 -       312,423    437,943    618,265    591,152    366,627           158,202      26,547      24,412    275,457        616,242  1,045,027  1,473,812  2,780,722
1/ Develompent loan disbursed against 70I. of total fixed investnent and herd build-up. The loan  is at 97, for 13 years, including 5 years grace.
2/ The amount of the contribution iP calculated to provide adequate cash cover against lags in disbursements and possible tax assessments. The
latter cannot be estimated until the arrangements for taking over the ranches are known in detail.
The financial rate of return is 13.07, over 20 years based on:
(a) total cash inflow from sales.
(b) total cash outflow before loan se-ice.
(c) incremental herd value of N 3,400,820 and
(d) annual pre-development reve-nes and costs as indicated.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX B
TABLE I
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NLPC Fattening Ranches (Manchok. Mokwa) -
Herd Projection (Each Ranch)
-------------------------------------Project Year  2/--------
Before
Development             2                3                4                5               6-21
HERD COMPOSITION
Steers          ..................                     1,500             2,000            3,500            5,000            5,000             5,000
Total Animal Units  3/ .........            1,500             2,000            3,500            5,000           5,000              5,000
PURCHASES
Steers                   .            .                1,500             2,000            3,500            5,000            5,000             5,000
Total Purchases  .....      ..........      1,500             2,000           3,500            5,000            5,000              5,000
MORTALITY
Steers           .................                        45                60              105              100              100               100
Total Mortality  .....      ..........         45                60              105              100              100,              100
SALES
Steers          ..................                     1,455             1,940            3,395            4,900            4,900             4,900
Total Sales  ......     .............       1,455             1,940           3,395            4,900            4,900              4,900
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Mortality 7           .           .............            3                  3               3                2                2                 2
Stocking Rate:  acres/AU Manchok                           4.0               3.0              1.7              1.2              1.2               1.2
Stocking Rate:  acres/AU Mokwa  ..........                 8.0               6.0              3.4              2.4              2.4               2.4
1/ Acreages: Manchok 6,000: Mokwa 12,000.
2/ Purchases are made mainly at the beginning and sales at the end of the year.
3/ An Animal Unit is eauivalent to an animal of one year of age or more.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 8
NIGERIA                                                  Table 2
LIVESTOCK DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
NLPC Fattening Ranches (Manchok. Mokwa)
Investment Costs (Each Ranch)
(s)
-- -----------------Project Year-------------------
Unit      --------_2            --- --- 3_--          ------4  - ---              TOTAL
CATEGORY                            .....                                .....     ...... Unit  Cost  Units  Cost  Units  Cost   Units       Cost      tjnits      Cost
fi'IXED INVESTMENT
Firebreaks and Roads
Firebreaks and Access Tracks .................            Mile          70         10        700         10       700           lO       700          30      2,100
Roads .Mile    230                                                                  5   1.150             5  1.150               5  1.150             15  3,450
Sub-Total                                                                         1,850                1,850                 1,850                   5,550
Water Development
Dans .Unit  6,900    2  13,800                                                                            -                                            2  13,800
Bores .Unit  11,500                                                                 1  11,500             -                                            1  11,500
Waterpipes .Mile   1,150                                                            1   1,150             1  1,150               -                     2   2,300
Watertroughs .Unit    60                                                            4    240              3    180               3    180             10   630
Sub-Total                                                                        26,690                1,330                    180                 28,200
Stock Handling Facilities and Fencing
Handling Yard and Dip  /.                                 Unit       4,600          1      4,600          1    4,600             -                     2      9,200
Fencing .Mile    700                                                               10   7,000            10  7,000              10  7,000             30  21,000
Electrical Fencing Units .Unit                                         600          2      1,200          1       600            1       600           4      2,400
Sub-Total                                                                        12,800               12,200                 7,600                  32,600
H1ousing and Ranch Buildings
Hlousing                                                                                  14,000                2,500                 1,800                 18,300
Shed .Unit  4,500                                                                   1  4,500              -    -                 -    -                1  4 500
Sub-Total                                                                        18,500                2,500                 1,800                 22,800
Vehicles and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle .Unit                                      4,500           1      4,500          1    4,500             -                     2     9,000
Tractor , 60-65 HP .Unit                                            4,500           1      4,500          1    4,500             -                     2      9,000
Disc Harrow .Unit  1,100                                                            1   1,100             -           _                                I   1,100
Disc Plough (3 furrow) .Unit                                           900    - 1            900          -                                            1        900
Rotary Cutter .Unit   800                                                           1    800              1   800                -                     2   1,600
Rotary Fertilicer Distributor.Unit                                     900          1        900          1       900            -                     2      1,800
Trailer .Unit   800                                                                 1   800               1   800                -                     2  1,600
Levelling Harrow........                   .......        Unit         500          1        500          -                      -                     1        500
Seed Drill .Unit  1,800                                                             1   1,800                         -                                1  1,800
Tools, etc .Set  700    1   700                                                                           -                                            1   700
Veterinary Equipment                                       Set         300                                                                             1        300
Power Plant .Unit  2,800                                                            1   2,800             -    70                                      1   2,800
Spares  /.                                                                                 1.500                   7!0                                      2L.200
Sub-Total                                                                        21,100               12,200                                       33,300
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Bed Preparation and Sowing               Ac         50        500    25,000         500   25,000          500   25,000         1,500    75,000
Fertilizer 2! .Ton   180    125  22,500    125 22,500    125 22,500                                                                                  375  67,500
Seed f .Lb                                                               1.20 5,000  6,000   5,000  6,000    5,000  6,000   15,000  18,000
Pesticide                          . .Gal    10    500   5,000    500  5                                                      500  5j000    1,500  t5,000
Sub-Total .       . . ........--. 58500                                                               58,500                58,500                175,500
Physical Contingencies 10%                .13.960                                                              - 8.820                  6.970                 29.750
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                                                    153.400 . ..=97. 400                        76_900         3    27.
1/    Capacity of 1,000 head.
2/    10% of cost of vehicles and equipment excepting four wheel drive vehicle.
3/    Assumes application of triple superphosphate at 2.5 cwt per ac at sowing and 2.5 cwt per ac 6 months later.
4/    Assumes sowing rate of 10 lb of mixture/ac.
5!    Assuemes epplic.tion of ens gsl,/se of formicide.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 8
Table 3
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NLPC Fattening Ranches (Manchok. Nokwa)   l
3ales, Operating E4esnses and Livestock Purchases (Each ranch)
(N)
------------------------------Project Years----------------------
CATEGORY                                                        2               3                4                5              6-21
SALES
Steers  2/ .................................           294,880         516,040         744,8oo         744,8oo         744,8oo
TOTAL STEER SALES ........................             294,o8o         516,040         744,8o0o        744,800           744,800
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages
Manager .                                                5,000            5,000            5,000            5,000            5,000
Assistant Manager .                                      3,500            3,500            3,500            3,500           3,500
Chief Clerk .........                                    1,600            1,600           1,600            1,600            1,600
Plant Operator/Mechanic .1,200                                            1,200            1,200            1,200           1,200
Field Assistant )3/ .1,800                                                2,400            3,000           3,000            3,000
Driver            )                                      1,200            2,400           2,400            2,400            2,400
herdssan/Laborer )4/ ....................                6,000           10,000           14,000          14,000           14,000
Guard              )..20                             0           1         .600            2.000            2Q00            2.000
Sub-Iotal .......                                 21,500           27,700           32,700          .32,700           32,700
Maintenance 5/
Fencing .100                                                                450              800    1,150    1,150
Firebreaks .-                                                                95              185              280              280
Stock Handling Facilities and Dip                          200              490              750              780              780
Water Supply .-                                                           1,335            1,400            1,410            1,410
Buildings..                                              4.5              5.425            5.500           5.640            5.640
Sub-Total .4,800                                                    7,795            8,635            9,260            9,260
Tractor, Vehicle and Equipment
Tractor  6/           .           .2,250                                  4,500            4,500            4,500            4,500
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle   7/.                           1,300            2,600            2,600            2,600            2,600
Power Plant    .                  .390                                      390              390              390              390
Sub-Total         .          .3,940                                 7,490            7,490            7,490            7,490
Replacement of Vehicles and Equipment  _1                  3,650            5,950            5,950            5,950            5,950
Animal health
Veterinary Expenses   9/ .3,000                                           5,250            7.500            7,500            7,500
Dipping 10           .          .                        2000             3.500            5x000            5.000            5.000
Sub-Total .........          . .. .                5,000            8,750           12,500           12,500           12,500
Pasture Maintenance
Sown Pasture 11/ .-                                                      11,250           22,500           33,750          33,750
Natural Pasture  12/ .18.000                                             18.000           18. 000          18.000           18.000
Sub-Total .18,000                                                  29,250           40,500           51,750           51,750
Miscellaneous 13/ .2.45                                                     4.345            5.395            6.000            6,000
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  ...... .... .. ... ...  , 59,735                 91.280          113,170          125,650          125,650
LIVESTOCK PURCHASES
Steer Purchases 14/ .220.000                                              385.000          550.000          550.000          550.000
TOTAL STEER PURCHASES   ......Q.....,.,                  220.000        .385000            550.000          550,000
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES AND STEER PURCHASES  ...            279.735         476,280          663.170          675,650          675.650
NET OPERATING INCOME  /   ......................             15,145            39,760          8L.630           69,150            69,150
1/  Acreages:  Manchok,  6,0oo; Mokwa, 12,000.                                                       9/ N1.50 per AU per year.
2/  N 152 per head.                                                                                _,0/ N1.00 per AU per year.
3/  N600 per year.                                                                                  11/ 2.5 cwt of triple superphosphate per ac per
4/  8400 per year.                                                                                      year at NISO per ton.
5/  5% of construction  cost beginning with year following construction.                            12/ 1 cwt of triple superphosphate per ac per year
Assumes values of old structures as follows: fencing, N2,000, stock                                 at 8180 per ton on 2,000 ac.
bandling facilities, N4,000; buildings, N90,000.                                                13/ 5% of operating expenses.
6/ 1,500 working hours per tractor at N1.50 per hour for fuel, oil, grease,                         14/ N110 per head.
spare parts, repairs and insurance.                                                            15/ Equals total steer sales - (total operating
7!  10,000 miles per year at N 0.13 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare                               expeuses + total steer purchases).
parts repairs and insurance.
8/ 207. of cost of tractors, vehicles and equipment and 107. of cost of
power plant beginning with year of acquisition.
December 14, 1973



ANN3X 8
Table 4
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NLPC Fattening Ranches (Manchok, Mokwa)
General Administration - Investment and Operating Expenses
(N)_
Project
------------- Year--------------
Unit
Cost           2          3-21
CATEGORY
FIXED INVESTMENT
Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                   4,500               4,500
Office Furnishings
Office Furniture                           1,150               1,150
Office Equipment                           1,150               1,15L
Sub-Total                                                 2,300
Physcal Contingencies 10%                                         700
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                         7,500
OPERATING EXENSES
Salaries
General Manager                            7,000               7,000           7,000
Secretary/Accountant                       3,000               3,000           3,000
Chief Clerk/Typist                         1,600               1,600           1,600
Driver                                       600                 600             600
Messenger                                    400                 400             400
Sub-Total                                                12,60C          12,600
Transport
Vehicle Running Expenses V                                     1,560           1,560
Vehicle Replacement i/                                            900             900
Sub-Total                                                 2,460           2,460
Off ice
Rental                                     1,700               1,70O            1,700
Stationery                                   600                 600             600
Postage                                      600                  600             600
Telephone                                  1,100               1100            1,100
Sub-Total                                                 4,000           4,000
Audit and Professional fees and Insurances                         3,400           3,400
Miscellaneous                                                      1,140           1,140
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                          23,600          23,600
12,0CO  miles Der year at N 0.13 Tner mLile for fuel, nil grease, spare parts, ropaLrz
and insurance.
2/    20% of cost beginning with year of acqaisition.
j/    %5, of operating expenses.
December 14, 1973



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                      ANNEX 8
TABLE 5
NLPC Fattening RBnches (Manchok, Mokwa)
Cash Flow
(N)
-efoe -Project Yea-
Devolopnsot    2           3           4            5             6            7             8-14          15
CASH INFLOW
Livestock Sales                                   480,000      589,760    1,032,080    1,489,600    1,489,600    1,489,600    1,489,600    1,489,600   1,489,600
Development Loan 1/                                 -          251,440       155,840       123,040       -             -             -            -            -
Federal Gover-ment Equity Contribution              -          300.000       100,000         100,000     - -                         -             _           _
TOTAL CASN INFLOW                                      480_000    1,141.200    1,287,920    1,712,640    1.489.600    1.489,600    1 489 600    1 489 600   1 489 600
SASH OUTFLOW
Flood Invcornott-
-   General Adnisitration                                -             7 500                     -
-   RBnches                                              _           306,800       194,800      153,800        -            -             -             -            -
Stoee  Purchases                                         _          440,000       770,000    1,100,000    1,100,000    1,100,000    1,100,000    1,100,000   1,100,000
Operating Nxpenses
-   General Adr.oinstratioe                              _            23,600        23,600       23,600        23,600        23,600       23,600        23,600       23,600
-   Ranchs                                                           119,470      182,560       226,340       251,300      251,300       251,300       251,300     251,300
Sub-Total                                                   897,370    1,170,960    1,503,740    1,374,900    1,374,900    1,374,900    1,374,900   1,374,900
Ovedraft Interest                                        -             6,200       11,000        17,000        16,000        16,300       16,000         4,000       -
D-lopseent Loan Service                                  -            11,944       31,291        4453         84,462        84,462        84,462        84,462       -
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                                     524,336       915,514    1,213,251    1,565,279    1,475,362    1,475,662    1,475,362    1,463,362   1,374,900
C'Aa- ULANCE _
Anneal .. i. noim 2'                                                (311,500)    (958,000)    (854,000)    (800,200)    (817,200)    (803,200)          -            -
Adnnal Year End                                        (44,336)      225,686       74,669       147,361       14,238        13,938        14,238        26,238      114,700
Cvmulativ- YTar End                                                    -          300,355       447,716      461,954       475,892       490,130       673,796     788,496
CALCULATIOOB OF AbNIJAL hINI0b'DM CASH BALAndCE
Opening Balance_.                                                                 226,000       300,000      448,000       462,000       476,000        -            -
Add-kqoity Contrhibtion                                  -           300,000      100,000       105,000               -            -
Dovelepe-not Loan                                    _           63,000       102.000       75,300        31.000       -        O                  -           -
(25% last y-ar+25% this yesr)
Sub-Total                                                   363,000       428,000      470,000       479,000       462,000      476,000        -            _
Less-507. Fined Investements                             _           157,000       97,400        77,000        -             -
100% Steer PFrchases                                           440,800       770,000    1,100,000    1,100,000    1,100,000    1,100,000
501, Operattng Expensos                                         71,500       103,000       125,000      137,000       137,000       137,000
50% Lees SOr-ire                                    -            6,000        15,600        22,000       42,200        42.200        42,200
Sub-Totel                                                   674,500       986,000    1,324,000    1,279,200    1,279,200    1,279,200
M4inimum Cash science (Overdreft)                                _         (311,500)    (S58A000)    (854,000)    (800,200)    (817,200)    (803,200)
if    De-elopemest Loan disbur-ed against 80% of fised investmenet. The loan is at 9 1/2% fo- 13 years, iOcluding 3 years grace.
2/    Overdeaft facilities of op to about N 800,500 will ho required in PY 2-7.  ITterest is esti-ated ot 2, of the asnnal minimum balance.
Tho financial Rate of rotors is 17.8% based so: - (a)        tstal cash isflow from soles;
(b)     total cash outflov hefnre oreed-aft ist-r-st + Ian sei-ce;
(c)     treating incremental steer purches-s as permanet working capital octil PY 21, when the herd
in a-ssumd to bh sold;
(d)     taking so account sf pre-developement losses or each costs.
De-ember 14, 1973



ANNEX 9
NIGERIA
DIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRWJECT
Private BreeintFatteninlg Ranch - 2.400 a
Herd Projection
---- ---- ---- - -- ---- ---- --- --- -project   Year - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Betore
flevelouent                               A                      6..t      7          8         9-211
HFRD CCMSVITION
Buls ........................3                                                  3         5          7          9         11         12         12         12
Breeding Cows....................50                                            80       130        200        270        302        302        302        302
Weaners.......................25                                              25         4i0        78        1140       202        241        247.       2141
Hetters 9-24 months .................2                                        12         12         19         38         68         99        US8        118
Steers 9-24 months.................22                                         212        22         19         38         68         99        US         3118
Betters 2-3 Years .................                                11          1-1         -         -          -          -          ---
Steers 2-3 years ..................12                                         122                    -          -          -          ---
Steers, Puirchased..................220    151 j                                                                          41         38          -
TotaLlAnlisas ..................I..2                                      275        350        44*8      .57        j69         791        791        791
TotaLl Animal Units V/..............                          100         250        310        370        430        1490      '550        550        550
PURCHASES
Buls .1.......................-                                                            3         3          3                     4          4          4
fr-calf Cows Heiters ..-..............21                                                 30         62         56          -          -          -          -
Steers......0.151..................2A                                                                                               J                  -
Total Purchases .1................141                                                1814       190        134         4~         42          4          4
MORTALITY
Bulls..-                                                                        -         -          1-1---
BreedingWOws..........................2                                        2         2          3          4          5          6          6          6
Weaners.....................1                                                   1         1          2          2          4          4          5          5
Heiafers 9-24 mcnths.............. ::                               1           1         1          1          1          1          1          2          2
Steers 9-24 months ..................                                     -          -               -          -          1          1          2          2
Betters 2-3 years ...........                   ....0                           0         -          ---                              -          -          -
Steers 2-3 Years...........1.......                                             1          1         ----- 
Steers, PuLrchased.............-.....                                     -                4          3         3          2          1          1-
Total Mortality .................5                                          5          9         10         10         14         13         16         15
C      .....llBulls............                              1           -          1          -          1          1          3          4          4
CullICows......................5                                                -         -          --                    -         30         45         45
Heiters 2-3 years..................-                                            -         -          -          -          -         31         46         6
Steers 2-3 years ............-                                                  -        22         12         19         37         67         97    116
Heifers 3-4 years ..........4                                                   -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Steers 3-4 years ..................11                                         11         11          -          -          -          -          --
Steers, Purchased..................-                                            -       16         148        122         73         40         37-
Total Sales                                                    21          11        a4o        160        iko        in1        171       229        230
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Calves Weaned% ...................                                 0          50         50         60         70         75         80         So         So
Mortality %.....................3                                               3          3         2          2          2          2          2          2
CutllingBRatesBul Is %................30                                        0        30          0         14         13         29         30         30
Culling RateoCows %.................10                                          0          0         0          0          0         10         15         15
Culling Rate Betters 2-3 years %..........0                                     0         0          0          0          0         46         48         55
Culling Rate Beiters 3-4 years %..........36                                    0         0          0          0          0          0          0          -
Bulle%tretnliae.                                                               3          3          3                     3          3          3          3
Stocking Bate:  acres/Au ..............24                                       9.6       7.7        6.5        5.6        4.9        4.4        4.4        4.4
I/ An Animal Unit is equivalent to an animal of one Year ot age or mrore
December 124, 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 2
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Private Breedin/Fattef_inE  Ranch - L400 ac
Investment Costs
-   (N)
Unit               234TOLProject Year
CATEGORY                                                               Unit        Cost       Units       Cost        Units      Cost        Units       Cost      Units      Cost
FIXED INVESTMENT
Firebreaks and Roads
Firebreaks ....................................    Mile                   70           10       700            -          -           - _                  10       700
Water Development
Dams ..........................................    Unit                4,600            1    4,600             -          -            -         -          1    4,600
Stock Handling Facilities and Fencing
Handling Yard and Dip ..............                       Unit        1,800            1    1,800             -          -            -         -           1    1,800
Fendng:  Improved Pasture ....................    Mile                   700       1-1/2    1,050              1       700            1       700       3-1/2     2,450
Boundary .............................    Mile                350            8    2.800             -         -            -          -          8    2,800
Sub-Total                                                                               5,650                     700                    700                 7,050
Housing and Ranch Buildings
House:  Manager  ......         .........................    Unit        900            1       900            -          -            -         -          1        900
Storage Shed  ......................,,.,.......    Unit                  500            1       500            -          -            -         -           1       500
Sub-Total                                                                               1,400                       -                       -                1,400
Tools and Equipment
Tools, etc.   ... ....................                      Set          120            1       120            -          -            -         -           1       120
Veterinary Eouipment  ......         ....................   Set           50            1        50            -       _-                                    I  1     50
Sub-Total   ...........    ,   . ..............                                            170                      -                      -                   170
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Bed Preparation and Sowing..             Ac           35          50      1,750           50     1,750            50     1,750        150      5,250
Fertilizer   I/ ................... I .............         Ton          180          12.5   2,250            12.5  2,250             12.5  2,250          37.5  6,750
Seed   2/ ............ , , , .                  ......       Lb             1.20      500       600          500        600         500        600      1,500      1,800
Pesticide  3/ ............,, Gal                                         10           50       500           50        500           50       500        150      1.500
Sub-Total .                                                                             5,100                   5,100                  5,100                15,300
Physical Contingencies 10% .........................                                               _1760                     580                     580       2, 92a
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT             6.....................                                                       6,         6_380                  6,380                32 a 0
1/  Assumes application of triple superphosphate at 2.5 cwt per ac at sowing and 2.5 cwt per ac 6 months later.
2/ Assumes sowing rate of 10 lb of mixture/ac.
3/ Assumes application at rate of one gal/ac of formicide.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 3
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Private Breeding/Fattening Ranch - 2400 ac
Sales, Operating Expenses and Livestock Purchases
(N)
Pro jest
- -------------------------------------Years - --____-__-_-___
CATEGORY                           ........                                               ..          .      .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .......... Before  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9-20
Development
SALES
Cull Bull-I .o.............................                185               -          185          -          185         185         555         740         740
Cull Cows 2/ .......... ...................725                                     -                 --                      -        4,350       6,525       6.525
He'.fers (2-3 years) 3/        .        .-                                   -           -           -           -           -        6,200       9,200     13,000
Steers/Bulls (2-3 yeais) 41                                 -                -        1,620       1,620       2,565       4,995       9,045     13,095      15,660
Heifers (3-4 years) 5/ .800                                                  -           -           -           -           -           -                 -
Steers/Bulls (3-4 years) 6/ .2,090                                        2,090       2,090                      -                 -                 -
Purchased Steers 7/.. .....                                               __.._      17.400      22.200      18.300      10,950       6,(OO       5,550          -
TOTAL LIVESTOCK SALES .3.800                                              2090       21.295      2    0      2.0                    26.150      3.110       35.925
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages
Manager's Wage                                                          1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200       1,200
Hardsma.)8/ ............................                                  6co         900       1,200       1,200       1,200      1,200       1,200       1,200
Laborer d ) .        ..                                                               300         300         300         300         300         300        300
Sub-Total                                                        2,100      2,400       2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700
M4aintenance 9/
Fencing                                                                               195         265         265         265         265         265         265
Firebreaks.                                                                            35          35          35          35          35          35          35
Stock Handling Facilities and Dip                                                      95          95          95          95          95          95          95
Water Supply                                                                          230         230         230         230         23 0        230         230
Buildings                                      7O 70                                               7O          70          70          70          70          70
Sub-Total                                                                     625         695         695         695         695         695         695
Replacement of Tools and Equisment                                           40          40          40          40          40          40          40          40
Aninal Health
Vaccines and Drugs II/ .................                                  375         465         555         645         735         825         825         825
Insecticides 12/   11.                                                    253         310         370         430         490         550         550        550
Sub-Total                                                          625        775         925       1,075       1,225       1,375       1,375       1,375
Pasture Maintesance
Sowe Pasture 13/                                                                    1,125       2,250       3,375      3,375       3,375       3,375       3,375
Natural Pasture                                                           bO1.800   1,800   1, 800         1,800       1,800        l          __1,80C_0
Sub-Total                                                       1,800       2,925       4,050       5,175       5,175       5,175       5,175       5,175
Land Rent  15/                                                              480         480         480         480         480         480         480         480
Cattle Tax  16/                                                             190         235         280         325         370         415         415         415
Miscellaneous  17/                                                           260        375         460         525         535         545         545         545
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES .1.260                                           5,455       7.855       9.630      11.015      11.220     11,425      11, 4      25 11.425
LIVESTOCK PURCHASES 18/
Bulls 19/ .200                                                                -         900    900    900   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
In-Calf Cows/Heifers  20/ .-                                              4,200       6,000      12,400      11,200          -           -           -           -
Steers 2V1/ ._.                                                          12.600 1    13.125    7.875   4.305   3,990
TOTAL LIVESTOCK PURCHASES                                  200              800         755      2645        19975         5505       5.190       10         1200
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES AMD LIVESTOCK PURCHASES           1.460           22.255      30.610      36,055      30,993      16,725      16.615      12,625      12.625
1/ N185 per head                                                                                11/ N1.50 per A.U. per year.
2/ N145 per head                                                                                12/ N1.00 per A.U. per year.
3/ N200 per head                                                                                13/ 2.5 cwt of triple superphosphate per ac per year at N180 per ton.
T/ N135 per head                                                                                :5/ 1 cwt of triple superphosphate per ac per year at N180 per ton
/ N200 per head                                                                                    on 200 an.
6/ N190 per head                                                                                15/ NO.20 per ac per year.
7/ N150 per head                                                                               71/ No.75 per A.U. per year.
1/ N300 per:-ear                                                                                r/ 5% of operating expenses.
9/ 5 % of construction cost beginning with year following construction.                         17/ Treated as development costs in years 1-3
LO/ 20%  of cost beginning with year of acquisition.                                            29/ N300 per head
20/ N200 per head
71/ B10bpe  head



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Private Ranches Development Projections
Cash Flow
(N)
---------------------------------------------------------Project Year----------------------------------------------------
2              3              4              5              6              7              8            9-16             17
Cash Inflow
Livestock Sales                              2,090         21,295         23,820         21,050         16.130         26,150         35,110         35,925         35,925
Development Loan                            28,994         23,308         26,244         15,980           -              -              -              -               _
Rancher Contribution:
Initial herd                              15,525           -              -              -              -              -              -              -
Cash                                      10,000           -             2,000          4,000          4,000           -              -              -
Total Cash Inflow                           56.609         44.603         52,064         41.030         20,130         26.150         35.110         35,925         35.925
Cash Outflow
Fixed Investments                           19,380          6,380          6,380           -              -              -              -              -               -
Livestock Purchases - Breeding Stock         4,200          6,900         13,300         12,100          1,200          1,200          1,200           1,200          1,200
- Steers               12,600         15.855         13,125          7,875          4,305          3,990           -              -              -
36,180        29,135         32,805         19,975          5,505          5,190          1,200           1,200          1,200
Initial Herd                                15,525           -              -              -              -              -              -              -
Operating Expenses                           5.455          7.855          9,630         11.015         11,220         11,425         11,425         11,425          11,425
Sub-total                                   57,160         36,990         42,435         30,990         16,725         16,615         12,625         12,625          12,625
Loan Service                                  1.377         2,484          4.838          6.844          7.603         15,055         15,055         15.055            -
Total Cash Outflow                          58,537         39.474         47.273         37.834         24,328         31.670         27.680          27,680         12.625
Cash Balance - Annual                       (1,928)         5,129          4,791          3,196         (4,198)        (5,520)         7,430          8,245          23,300
- Cumulative                     -            3,201          7,992         11,188          6,990          1,470          8,900         74,205         97,505
1/ Development loan disbursed against 80% of fixed investment and livestock purchases in PY 2-5 The loan is at 9y% for 15 years, including a grace
period of 5 years.
The financial rate of return to the individual farmer/trader is 13% over 20 years based on:
(a) total cash inflow from sales
(b)  total cash outflow before loan service and
(c)  opening and closing herd values of N 15,525 and N 84,070 respectively.
The financial rate of return to the project component, taking into account the timing of farmers' participation remain  13%.                                                  dO
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 10
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Fattening by Smallholders
1.        General.  Cattle fattening, mainly of mature oxen, and carried out
after harvest with crop residues and some supplementary feed is moderately
widespread throughout northern Nigeria. It has been practised by Hausa
farmers, butchers, and cattle traders on a small scale for several decades;
but its spread during the last few years has increased considerably due to
rapidly rising meat prices. In many cases, fattening amounts to little more
than conserving liveweight through the dry season, but more and more it is
being undertaken to profit from modest weight gains and from seasonal price
increases, the most significant being those occurring between about the end
of the dry season and the middle of the wet season. Fattening techniques
are generally inefficient, but could be improved significantly through better
advice on management, better animal health services, and the greater use of
supplementary feed and crop residues that are available in Nigeria. It also
appears that more farmers would undertake fattening if credit were available
for purchasing feeder animals. Most farmers are too poor to buy animals and
thus are denied the opportunity of profitably using crop residues and benefit-
ing from the production of farm yard manure.
2.        Subproject Description.  The purpose of the subproject would be to
conduct a pilot beef cattle fattening scheme with the objectives of developing
appropriate fattening techniques, cattle purchase and sale procedures, and
credit arrangements (including cattle insurance), as well as training both
farmers and extension personnel in efficient cattle fattening techniques.
The results of the pilot scheme should determine whether small-scale fattening
operations should be further promoted by Government.
3.        Individuals selected to participate would have had previous expe-
rience in cattle management (this could be by owning and operating draught
oxen) and would have the capacity to provide the simple facilities needed
for confining and feeding the animals, and sufficient labor to care for the
animals purchased with the credit. The number of animals to be finished on
each fattening unit would be determined by (i) the estimated production
capacity for roughage and crop residues of the farm, and (ii) the management
and organizational ability of the potential cattle fattener. At full devel-
opment, about 1,500 fatteners, finishing a total of about 7,500 animals per
year, would participate in the scheme, which would be located in three se-
lected areas of about 10 x 10 mi each, two in NE and one in NL State. Incre-
mental production would be about 640 mt liveweight per annum valued at about
N 315,000.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
4.        The majority of loans would be to small farmers, who would finish
about three animals per year during an appropriate six-month period. Credit
would be made available for both cattle and supplementary feed such as cotton
seed, rice bran and middlings, groundnut and cotton seed cake, groundnut
stalks, and salt. Credits for cattle and for feed would be made in kind by
the subproject management. All cattle would be provided with free prophylactic
treatment against trypanosomiasis where necessary. Fat cattle would be marketed
with the assistance of subproject management, and credit recovery would take
place at the point of sale.
5.        Cost and Profit to the Cattle Fattener.  The cost of fattening one
animal over about 180 days, and the profit from this operation, assuming a
daily liveweight gain of 1 lb, is estimated as follows:
Unit    Unit Cost  No. of Units  Total Cost
N                         N
A.   Operating Costs
1.   Purchase of Feeder /1  head       110.0           1           110.0
2.   Feed Concentrate /2    cwt          5.0           4            20.0
3.   Groundnut Stalks         cwt        0.8          10             8.0
Subtotal                                                 138.0
B.   Sales /1                      head      160.0           1           160.0
C.   Gross Operating Income                                               22.0
D.   Interest Charge and Insurance
1.   Interest Charges /3                                             6.6
2.   Cattle Insurance                                                2.0
E.   Net Operating Income                                                 13.4
/1   Purchase and sale price per lb liveweight - N 0.225.
7T   Cotton seed, rice bran/middlings, groundnut and cotton
seed cake, etc., and salt.
/3   9-1/2% per year.
The estimated net income to the cattle fattener of about N 13.4 per fattened
animal is considered satisfactory, especially since this could be increased
through alert marketing to take advantage of seasonal price differences;
through long-term delivery contracts between the scheme and wholesale meat
dealers in main consumption centers; and through purchasing supplementary
feed directly after harvest when prices are low. LPU would provide marketing
assistance to subproject participants.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
i.        Subproject feeder cattle and credit requirements would be as
follows:
Annual Requirements of Feeder Cattle
Years          Area I        Area II        Area III       Total
------------Head -----------
1            800                                         800
2           1,500                                      1,500
3          2,000          1,000                        3,000
4          2,500          2,000           1,500        6,000
5-20       2,500          2,500          2,500         7,500
Annual Credit Requirements
No. of           Cost of           Cost of Supple-          Total
'Years      Feeder Cattle        Feeders /1        mentary Feed   /2   Credit Volume
---- Head-----      --------N----_________________
1              800             88,000              22,400             110,400
2            1,500             165,000             42,000             207,000
3            3,000             330,000             84,000            4414,000
4            6,000             660,000            168,000             828,000
5-20         7,500             825,000            210,000           1,035,400
/1   N 110 per feeder.
/2   N  28 per feeder.
7.        In view of the scheme's pilot nature, Government would guarantee
loans made under the scheme by NAB to fatteners. Appropriate measures would
be taken to prevent the misuse of credits and stock purchased with NAB loans
would be branded and serve as part of the security for such loans.
S.        Organization and Management.  A LPU ranch technical officer report-
ing to the Deputy Project Manager - North would be responsible for day-to-day
implementation of the scheme, including purchase of feeders and sale of fat
animals, evaluation of the fattening capacity of applicants' farms, and train-
ing of scheme personnel. He would be directly assisted in each of the three
project areas by one livestock and two veterinary field assistants provided
by the NE State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. In addition
the subproject would receive technical support as needed from district veteri-
narv and agricultural service staff operating in subproject areas.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
Grazing ieserves
Fulani Graziers - 64,o00 acres
Investment Costs (Each Unit)
(N)                      Project Yr. 2 and Total
Unit      No. of
Unit   Cost       Unit      Costs
FIXED INVESTMENT
Firebreaks and roads
Firebreaks and access tracks               Mile      70        60       4,200
Roads                                      Mile    230        10       2,300
Subtotal                                         6,500
Water Development - Dam                       Unit 4,600           2       9,200
Stock handling facilities and fencing
Handling yard, dip, holding paddocks       Unit  7,000          1       7,000
Cattle schale                              Unit 2,300           1       2,300
Subtotal                                         9,300
Housing and ranch buildings
House:  Range Officer                      Unit 10,000          1      10,000
Field Assistant                    Unit  1,000         2        2,000
Laborer                            Unit    500         4        2,000
Office/Storeroom                           Unit  2,000         1        2,300
Subtotal                                        13,6oo
Vehicles and equipment
Four wheel drive vehicle                   Unit  4,500          1       4,500
Veterinary equipment                       Set      300         1         300
Tools                                      Set     400          1         400
Subtotal                                          5,200
Physical contingencies 10,~                                             4,650
TOTAL FIXED INVrSTM1NT                                         51,150
j Representing one unit of 100 sq miles located in North-Eastern and North-4estern
States.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX II
Table 2
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Grazing Reserves
Fulani Graziers - 64,000 ac -
Operating Expenses and Grazing Fees (Each Unit)
(N)
------------------ --------------- Project Years ------------------------
OPERATING EXPENSES
2          3          4          5          6           7          8        9-11
Salaries and Wages
Range Development Officer ...                 ,,,,,,                 , 5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000      5,000       5,000      5,000      5,000
Field Assistant 2/ .1,200                                             1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200       1,200
Laborer 3/ .1,600                                                     1,600      1,600      1,600       1,600      1.600      1.600  18 I,600
Sub-Total ................                        7,800      7,800      7,800      7,800       7,800      7,800      7,800       7,800
Maintenance 4/ ...................................
Firebreaks and Roads .,.......................                          330        330         330        330        330        330         330
Dams ..........................,......... 460                                     460         460        460        460        460         460
Stock Handling Facilities ........... I ..........                      470        470        470         470        470        470         470
Housing and Ranch Buildings                                             820        820         820        820        820         820        820
Sub-Total.                                                    2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080
Vehicle Expenses
Pour wbeel drive vehicle 5/,,,,,,,,,.           , ,,,      1,560      1,560      1,560      1,560      1,560       1,560      1,560      1,560
Vehicle Replacement 6/ ......         .......................    900        900         900        900        900         900        900        900
Animal Health
Vaccines & Drugs             ......................        2,250      2,400      2,550      2,700      2,850       3,000      3,150      3,750
Dipping 8/ .........       ............................    1,500      1,600      1,700      1,800       1,900      2,000      2,100       2,500
Sub-Total  ......        ........................  3,750      4,000      4,250      4,500       4,750      5,000      5,250       6,250
Miscellaneous  ........        .............................      690        810        830        860        850         860        880        930
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES  ....       ...........    14,700    17,150    17,420    17,700       17,940    18,200      18,470    19,520
1/  Representing one unit of 100 sq miles located in North-Eastern and North-Western States.
2/  N 600 per year.
3/  N 400 per year,
4/ 57. of construction roat beginning with the year following construction.
5/  12,000 miles per year at N 0.13 per mile for fuel oil, grease, spare parts and insurance.
6/  20% of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
7/ N 1.50 per A.U. per year.
8/  N 1.00 per A.U. per year.
December 14, 1973



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVEHLOPMEN0T PROJECT
t.ironigRsre
Unit      neor          2       3       .4           3         6         7                   9         la        1 1       12          13       14       10        16         17        18           19        20       21         22
CATTLEH
feroviof Capacity j/Red                                   1,400    11,400    1,500    1,600    1,700    1,8000    1,900          2,000    2,100      2,200    2,300    2,400    2,5000       _ 2,600    2,700     2,900    2,800    2,800    2,800         2,8000     2,800    2,800
Stock Eud of Yea
(a) Without the Project 31
(b)  With the Project 4/                   Hoed          1,400    1,400       11,286   J1,372    1,300      1,344.    1,331    1,31f    1,305    1,292    1,200    1,207    2,254            1,241      1,220     1,217    1,200       t,193    1,101    1,169       1,102      1,140
Read          t,400    1,400    1,442    1,400    1,030    1,007           1,623     1,672    1,722    1,774    1,827    1,882    1.938    1,906            2,006      2,110     2,102    2.247       2,314    2,400    2,400       2,400
Off take
()Without the Project
(i)  Norma  sales 102,              Hoed             140       140       139       137        136       134       133       132       131       129        020       127       125       124        123       122       121       119        110       117       110        110
(50) scree e.. en  1%               Head              -         -         14         14        14        13        13        13        13        13        13         13      -13         12         12     _12          12 .       12        12        12        12         12
Scb-tot.1                    Road             140       140       103       101       -130      147       146        140      144        142       141       140        138       136       133       134        133       131       130        120       128       122
(4    Wth  Oftheroec                                      10        10         9        1        13        10          10       15        10         13        10        10        10         13        13        10         10        10         10         13      10         10
(tO)  Sales                         used             140       130       130        103       190       236       234       201       200       266       274        202       201       200       30          18        27        3247                 360      360       360
Value of Production
(a)   Without the Project                  S 140/Weed  19,000  221,420   21,420   21,140   21,000   20,300   20,440   20,300   20,160   19,000   19,740   19,000   10,320   19,040   10,900   10,260   18,620   10,340   18,200   10,063    17,920   17,780
(b)   With the Projet                      N 150/Head        -    19,300   19.500   24,430   29.030   35.400   35.100   37.650   38.700   39.900   41.100   42.300   43,600   44.850   46.200   47.200   49.050   00,320   52.050   54.000   54.000   54.000 -
lucuetfOffealce and
Residual Heed Ve1un                  N                 -     1,920)   )l920)   3,310    0,000   14,070   14,660   17,300   10,040   20,020   21,300   22,700   24,330   20,810   27,200   20,940   30,430   32,210   33,030   35,943    36,000  271,350 21/
Stock LEd of Year 4/                      Head           1,400    1,400    1,400    1,490    1,330    1,000    1,020    1,620    1,720    1,770               1,030      1,000    1,940    2,000       2,060    2,120    2,100        2,200    2,310    2,400        2,400    2,400
Offtekhes/                                   7.              20        20         20        25        23        25        23        23        20        20         20        25   ~ 23            25        25        20         23        20        25        25         25        25
Offtake                                     N..             200       280       208       373        383       395       405       410       430       443        450       470       403       300        513       530       540       363        078       600       600        600
Ifftake Value 6/                           N              3,360    4,200    4,320    5.595    5,745    5.925    6,07 5    6.270    6,450    6.645    6.070    7.050    7.275    7.500    7,7220                    7.950    0.175    8,445    8.670    9.o00    9.000            9.000
2e- -netal and Rneid-al
Herd V.tue                          N                 -         040       000    2.233      2,385    2.363      2.715   .2,915   2.090        3.285    3.510    3.690    3,915    4.140    4.365    4,590    4.815    5.005.   5.310    5.640                   5.640   20,440 7/
Total Incremete1 Off take ned
Reidual Reed Value                  N                -      (i o08    (1.08&     5.545   10.73    12.300   17.375    20.260   21.63    23.3305   24.070   26.3990   28,24             29.930   31.663U  313.330   3245307.293    39.160   41.000   41.720  291.790 7/
feeoiog Pee. B/                     HN                          700        721       743i      74         0         1         3         0         a         1         0          0         9       ,10      1159       1Ui        ,142    1,l3g      ,11z-,   1.200       1.200
TOTAL  RCHEICRYd2 BIRFITS    HN                         (3203      (359)   6,280   12.002   18.,169   18.187   21.096   22,491   24,192   25~,704   27,331   23';214   311,940    32,693   34,559   30,336   31,419   40a317   42,700   42,920  292,990
1I/ Poture gr-ieff.. reere  are alredy fully enpliofted ky so-tic heeds
2/  Cartyg at cpacity befere develop.eet - 2,000  cattle durIng 6 macthe/year (r-iy ......n) end 300 cettle dociug 6 mothe,Ynnr
(dr season..) - 1,400 cattle on syn- coned keels  .. teylaf eqeity will docble In 14 yeac
9/Wicknut the p-nj-t, cteyieg capacity and therfore cattle heed will decrease by 1%. per year, dun to  mpen..ion of
.9 ith11  tha Pee~ut the cattle hard and oheap/guct Cloak I. i--inaog by 3% per yaur, until they ec-h ruiac   Oe.  thut  nan h. utEeori,td.
35/  Doe- ot iselude eosireste-  off take
6/  N 12 per anie,el kefoce devlopmet end In yea  PT 1: eft-rwado N 15 peead-               l
21/  Renldua1 hnrd vsltn.
0/  H 0.50 pee A. U. par yaur.
De-enhe 14, 1973



NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Grazing Reserves
Kukar Jangarai - 300,000 ac.
Investm nt Costs
(N)
~------ ---------------Protect Year-______________
2                       3                     4                     TOTAL
Unit       No.                      No.                  No.                    No.
Unit      Cost     Units        Cost        Units     Cost        Units       Cost       Units        Cost
FIXED INVESlMT
Stock Handling Facilities and Fencing
Handling Yard, Dip, Holding Paddocks   .....          Unit     7,000           1       7,000 D                         -                            1        7,000
Fencing .lile   700                                                            4   2,800             4   2,800               4   2,800             12    8.400
Sub-Total                                                                     9,800                 2,800                   2,800                  15,400
Housing and Ranch Buildings
House:   Range Office .Unit    10,000                                          1     10,000          --                                  -          1       10,000
Field Assistant .Unit                                 1,000           2       2,000         -           -           -          -           2   2 ,000
Laborer ..........................          Unit        500           4      2,000          -           -           -          -           4        2,000
Office/Storeroom .Unit                                          2,500          1       2,500         -                       -           -          1        2-50G
Sub-Total                                                                    16,500                                                                16, 500
Vehicles and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle ...................         Unit      4,500           1       4,500    _-                           -           -          1        4,900
Veterinary Equipment ......................           Set        300           1         300         -           _-                      -          1          300
Tools .Set  400    1   400 _-                                                                                                                       I _    1 0
Sub-Total                                                                     5,200                                                                  5,200
Pasture Improvement
Land Clearing, Seed Bed Preparation and Sowing         Ac         55         500      27,500       500      27,500        ,500     27,500       1,500       82,500
Fertilizer 1/ .Ton                                               180         125      22,500       125      22,500         125     22,500         375       67,59o
Seed 2/ .Lb                                                     1.20       5,000       6,ooo     5,000       6,000       5,000      6,000      15,000       18,000
Pesticide   / .Gal                                                 10        500       9,00        500  5,000              500    5.000         1,500       15,000
Sub-Total                                                                    61,000                6i,0o0                  61,000                 183,000
Physical Contingencies 10%   .,                                                          9,2;0                 6,380                   6.380                  22.000
TOTAL FIXED IN7EST1ENT                                                                 11..750                70,180                  70,180                 242.000
1/ Assumes application of triple superphosphate at 2.5 cwt per as at sowing and
2.5 owl per ac 6 months later.
2/ Assumes sowing rate of 10 lb of mixture/ac.
3/ Assumes application of formicide at the rate of one gal/ac.
December 14, 1973.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 5
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Grazing Reserves
Kukar Jangarai - 300,000 ac
Operating Expenses, Grazing Fees and Incremental Production
----- Project Year --------------
OPERATING EXPENSES                      2          3           4         5-21
Salaries and Wages
Range Development Officer           5,000      5,000 o,00             5,000
Field Assistant 1/                  1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200
Laborer 2/                         1,600       1 600       1 600      1 600
Subtotal                   7,800
Maintenance
Stock handling facilities,
fencing and buildings  /                      1,310      1,450       1,590
Vehicle Expenses
Four wheel vehicle                 1,560       1,560       1,560      1,560
Vehicle Replacement  /               900         900         900        900
Pasture Maintenance
Fertilizer 6/                         -       11,250      22,500     33,750
Miscellaneous                           515      1,140       1,710      2,280
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES       l0u775      C3,960     352920      47,880
GRAZING FEES 8/                        -        2,400       4,800       7,200
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
Increased carrying capacity (AU)    -          1,000      2,000       3,000
Offtake 10A                           -          100         200        300
Value of Offtake 9/                   -       16,000      32,000     48,0oo
1/ N 600 per year.
7/ X 400 per year.
3/ 5 % of cost of construction beginning with the year following construction.
/ 12,000 miles per year at N 0.13 per mile for fuel oil, grease, spare parts, repairs
and insurance.
/ 20% of cost of vehicle beginning with year of acquisition.
E 2.5 cwt of triple superphosphate per ac per year at N 180 per ton.
/ 5$ of Operating Expenses.
N 2.40 per AU per year on assumed carrying capacity of 1,000 AU in year 2; 2,000 AU in
year 3; and 3,000 in year 4 onwards.
9/ N 160 per head.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 12
iGErIA
L19ESTWOCK DW      ? PROJECT
LPU Investmant O"rating sad Technical Service Costs
(N)
CATECORY                                              unit       No .   --------------------------------Project T"er       - __ ---   -________- -  -------     Total
Coat      tnits       1          2         3         4         5          6         7          8           Cost
FIXED INVESTTN
Vehic lea
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                       4,500          8     36,000         -          -         -    36,000          -         _          _       72,000
Staff Vehicle                                   3,500         3     10,500          -         -         -    10,500          -         -          -       21,000
Pick-up Truck (15 cut)                          5,000         3     15,000          _         -         -    15.000          -         -          -       30.000
Slb-Total                                                      61,500                                   61,500                                      123,000
Office Furnishings
Office Furniture                                                     8,000          -         -         -          -         -         -          -        8,000
Office Equipent                                                      8 000          _8000
Sub-Total                                                      16,000                                                                                16,000
Physical Contlngencies 10%                                             8,000          _         _         -     6,100          -         -          -       14,100
TOTAL FIXED IVzSTSNT                                                  85.500                    _          _    7 .600         -          -         -      153.100
OPERATDIC EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages
Psoject Meager          )                      27,000 p.a.    1     27,000    27,000    27,000    27,000    27,000    27,000           -          -      162,000
Ranch Plan-ing Officer     1                   23,000 P.O.    1     23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000           -          -      138,000
Accountant              2 -                    23,000 P.C.    1     23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000    23,000            -         _      138,000
Ranch Technical officer 5                      17,000 p.s.   3      51,000    51,000    51,000    51,000    51,0DO    51,000            -         -      306,000
Deputy Project Manager   2/                     8,000 P.-.   2      16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000    16,000         128,000
Counterpart Staff                               5,000 P.m.   7      35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000    35,000         280,000
Secretary                                       3,000 p.O.   1       3,000     3,000      3,000     3,000      3,000     3,000     3,000      3,000       24,000
Assistant Senretary                             2,000 p.a.   3       6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000     6,000      6,000       48,000
Chief Clerk/Typist                              1,600 p.s.    2      3,200      3,200     3,200     3,200      3,200     3,200     3,200      3,200       25,600
Driver                                            600 p.s.   10      6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000     6,000      6,000       48,000
Messenger                                         400 p.s.   4        1.600     1.600     1.600      1.600     1.600     1Q600      1,600     1 600       12A800
Sub-Total                                                     194,800   194,800   194,800   194,800   194,800   194,800    70,800    70,800    1,310,400
OTHER EXPENSES
Vehicle Running
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle   3/                                       12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500         100,000
Staff Vehicle   4/                                                   2,900      2,900     2,900     2,900      2,900     2,900     2,900      2,900       23,200
Pick-up Truck  (15 cwt)   5/                                         4,700    4,700       4,700     4,700     4,700      4,700     4,700      4,700       37,600
Repairs and Maintenance
Office Furnishings   6/                                              1,600      1,600     1,600     1,600      1,600     1,600      1,600     1,600       12,800
Per Dien Allowances
Proiessional Staff   7/                                              4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000       32,800
Non-pro-essional Staff   8/                                          1,600      1,600     1,600     1,600      1,600     1,600     1,600      1,600       12,800
Office Etpenose
Telephone, Postage, etc.                                              2,300     2,300     2,300     2,300      2,300     2,300      2,300     2,300        18,400
Sub-Total                                                      29,600    29,600    29,600    29,600    29,600    29,600    29,600    29,600         236,800
Miscellaneous   9/                                                    22,600    22,600    22,600    22,600    22,600    22,600    10,600    10,600         156,800
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                           247 000   247 000   247 000   2450    247.000   247.000   111 000   111.000    100
TEChNICAL SERVICES
Consultants  10/                                 6,000/mo     52     72,000    72,000    72,000    20,000    19,000    19,000    19,000    19,000         312,000
Establisbh-ent of Pilot
Seed Production Progran  11/                                              -    41,500    23,000         -          -         -          -         -       64,500
out of Country Training of
Counterpart staff  12/                          6,000/yr     16           -    24,000    240000    24.0oo000 24_                                          96.000
TOTAL TECHNICAL SERVICES COSTS                                      72_000   137 500   119 000    44 000    43 000    19 .00      19 00      19.000      472 5
1/  Allocation for expatriate appointees includes barn salary plua gratuity of 10., travel and resettlement expenses and educational allowance.
2/   Assuses appointment of one Nigerian Deputy for Western State activities to be located in Ibadan and one to work directly with the Project Director in laduna.
3/   12 000 niles per year per vehicle at N 0.13 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
4/   12,000  ile  per year per vehicle at N 0.08 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
S/   12 000  uile  per year per vehicle at N 0.13 per nile for fuel, nil, grease, spare parts, repsirs and insurance.
6/   10% of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
7/   NIO per day for four professionl stff for en average of 100 days per year.
8/ N4 par day for four non-professional staff for an average of 100 days par year.
9/   107. of operating expenses.
0I/   12 man monthe to undertake annual evaluation of the project; 12 an  months consultant to carry out a livestock taxation study; 2 man months to prepare terms
of reference for * study of reclmation of lands cleared from tetee flies and 26 man months to prepare follow-up livestock projects.
11/  4 man  onths consultancy in nY 2.
L2/   16 man yeara of advnsad training in grsal.aWani.al pros&tion sommoisg in PY 2.
Deaemr 14, 1973



ANNEX 13
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Research and Training Center (Mlokwa)-i
In-tnent and Operting ExPenses.
(N)
Unit              Mie.-F---------------   rojet Yer- ----------------                                                  Total
CATEGORY                                                     Cost             Units              2                3                4                5                6               Cos
FIXED INVESTMENT
Field REpenie-natis_2/ .............9,200                                                                  9,200            9,200             9,200             9,200         46,000
Teaching Facilities and Equipeest ........9,200                                                            4,600            4,600            4,600              4,600          27,600
Student Reusing  3/.................19,800                                                                      -                -                -                 -          19,800
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle ..........I   4,500                                  4          18,001 0                                                                              18,000
Wheel Tractor, 65 HP..............4,500                                       2           9.000            ____                                                                 900
Sob-Total................                                                           60,200           13,800           13,800           13,8O0            13,800         120,400
Fhyeical toetingenc.iss 107    .........                                                  6,50Q            1.400           1a400             1 400            12A400          12.100
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMEENT  .....0....20.....2.0...                                                                                                201            15.200        132.500
OFERATING EFPENIES
ioirinn and Wagnes
Office  in Charge -Livetock Production)....23,000                             1          23,000           22,000           23,000           23,000            23,000         115,000
Research Oifieec,    P--Ptr   Fr-dectien  ) 4/ ..20,000                       1          20,000           20,000           20,000           20,000             20,000        100,000
Researh Officer   M- SOchaltio-              )....20,000                      1          20,300           20,000           20,000           20,000             20,000        100,000
iCocerpoart Sta.ff  5/..... .........5,000                                    6          30,000           30,000           30,000           30,000             30,000        100,000
Secretary  ..... ........3,000                                                1           3,000            3,000            3,000            3,000              3,000         15,000
Chief Clerk........... .               . ::"  ....1,600                       1           1,600            1,600             1,600            1,800             1,600           0,000
Field Aus~istant.        . ........ ......               600                  6           3,600            3,600            3,600            3,600              3,600          18,000
Tiactoc Driver  ..........               . .......       600                  2           1,200            1,200            1,200            1,200              1,200           6,000
Mea sunnier/Cleaer ...............              .        400                  2              800              800              800              800               800           4,000
L.horer  ............                 . ........         400                  6           2Z400            i2Q40            2J400           2j400               2400           12.000
S.h-T.t1 .................1560l0,0                                                                                  100,600           105,600           105,600         528,000
Tractor and Vehicle Enpeo..s
Crau1er Tractor   6/ ..........,400                                                                        5,400            5,400            5,400              5,400          27,000
Wheel Tractor   7/ .........                                                              4,000            4,000            4,000            4,000              4,500          22,500
Wheel Trotter Repleceeert   0/ ....1,800                                                                   1,800             1,800            1,800             1,800           9,000
Pour Wheel Drive Vohiele  __/ .....5,200                                                                   5,200            5,200            5,200              5,200          26,000
Vehicle Repla-x-t   8/ ............3.600                                                                   3.600            3.600            3,602            32600            10.000
Ink-Total................                                                           20,500          20,500            20,500           20,500            20,500         102,500
Travl and Living Exposer
Students  10/ .................24,000                                                                     24,000           24,000           24,000             24,000        120,000
Teehing Staff II/ ..............                                                          5.000            5.000            5.050            5.000            5A000            25.000
Sub-T.tal  ................29,000                                                                    29,000           29,010           29,000            29,000         145,000
Mainte-nanc    12/  ...............                                                       1.900             2.003.224,0                                         4.700          16,500
Micelnec   ................2. ,300                                                                 7,900             8,000            8,000             8,000          39,200
TOTAL OFERATINO EXPENSES............164,300                                                              1660             1640              1710              1780            8320
TOTAL. FIXED0 INVESTMENT ADOS OFERATIC REIENSERS  ....                                        236.000          18801160                          18.01300                           9320
1/ A proportion of this budget, to he decided upon hy the Project Director, will be allocated to reunatch and training at the Foshola ub-.ernter.
2/ Estahlishment of 100 a- of pers.eant reperi-nntal plots spread ever 5 years.
3/ Conversion of refuting huildiogs at Mkcltw and Faehola for class.rooms and doritories.
4/ Alloctions for expatriate etaff include base salaries pl.s gratuity of 15%, travel and resettlement ampenoes and educational allowa...na.
5/ Assume  appointment of two graduate couterparts for each expatriate specialist.
6/ 600 hours par year at NO per hou for hire charge.
7/ 1,500 beers per year per trotter at 01.5 Per beer for fuel, oil, grease,. spare poets and repaires.
8/ SOT of cot beginning with year of acquisitio..
9/ 10,000 miles per year pee vehicle at N 0.13 per mile for fuel, oil, greas, opera parts, repairs and insurane.
TO/ 56 per day per student for 20 students f or 200 days per year.
T11/ N25 per day per lectorer fer 2 guest lcuesfor 100 days.
12/ ST of test of field plots, teaching facilities and equipment and student boosisg.
13/ 57, of  operating eupense..
D-eeber 14, 1973



ANNEX 14
Table 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
Heavy Equipment Unit
Investment Costs
(N)
Project
---- Year 1 --------------
Unit           No.           Cost
Cost          Units
FIXED INVESTMENT
Tractors and Graders
Crawler Tractor, 180 hp, Caterpillar D7 or equivalent 1/                52,000            3          156,000
Crawler Tractor, 140 hp, Caterpillar D6 or equivalent 2/                36,000            4          144,000
Wheel Tractors, 100-110 hp ......... ....................8,000                            3           24,000
Wheel Tractors, 60-65 hp ...........................,.4,500                               4           18,000
Motor Grader, 115 hp, Caterpillar 112 or equivalent  .....              30,000            3           90,000
Sub-total                                                                                 432,000
Vehicles
Four-wheel-drive vehicle           ..............                        4,500            7           31,500
Four-wheel-drive vehicle (Mobile Workshop)         ,                    10,000            2           20,000
Truck, 5-ton              ..                      .........               8,000           2           16,000
Tractor Transporter .....................................               22,000            3           66,000
Subtotal                                                                                  133,500
Machinery and Equipment
Clearing Blade and Related Equipment for D7, Rcme
KGA7E or equivalent ..................                                 3,800            3           11,400
Clearing Blade and Related Equipment for D6, Rome
'GA6C or equivalent .3,000                                                              4           12,000
Treepusher for D7, Fleco TPT7 or equivalent 5.............                 ,800           1            5,800
Treepusher for D6, Fleco TPT6 or equivalent        .............         4,600            1            4,600
Plowing Disc Harrow, Rome TRW 24-30 or equivalent   .......              8,100            7           56,700
Pulverizing Disc Harrow, Rome TCW 40-24 or equivalent 3/                 5,300            7           37,100
Root Plow, Fleco D7 or equivalent .......................                8,100            3           24,300
Root Rake, Fleco D7 or equivalent ..................                     5,300            3           15,900
Scraper, Caterpillar D7 or equivalent ...................               20,700            3           62,100
Cable Control, Caterpillar 127 or equivalent       ............          5,500            3           16,500
Clearing Chain, 300 ft ..                                                3,700            2            7,400
Ripper, Caterpillar 7 or equivalent, 3 Teeth        ............         8,100            3           24,300
Ripper, Caterpillar 6 or equivalent, 3 Teeth        ............         6,400            3           19,200
Cab Screen and Radiator Guard for D7 ....................                3,500            3           10,500
Cab Screen and Radiator Guard for D6 ....       ................         2,800            4           11,200
Trailers, Heavy Duty ....................................                4,600            4           18,400
Sod Seeder, 13 Coulter, Heavy Duty ......................                2,300            4            9,200
Fertilizer Distributor, 4-5 ton Capacity ................                2,300            4            9,200
Cambridge V-Roller with Seed and Fertilizer Boxes   .......              1,400            4            5,600
Tools and Workshop Equipment                                                                          16,000
Office and Radio Communications Equipment                                                              9,200
Spares 4/ ......................................           .                                          48,000
Subtotal                                                                                  434,600
Physical Contingencies 10% ..........................7,                                                 99,900
TOTAL FIXED INVESTMENT                                                                               1,100,000
1/ Equipped with powershift; crankcase; trackroller and cab guards; pull-hook; lights;
hydraulic controls; model 57 winch; No. 7A bulldozer.
2/ Equipped with powershift; crankcase; trackroller and cab guards; pull-hook; lights;
hydraulic controls; model 56 winch; No. 6A bulldozer.
3/ Equipped with chain harrow for levelling.
4/ Based on 52 of total purchases.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 14
Table 2
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Heavy Equiument Unit
Income and Operating Expenses
(N)
Unit        No.              -------------------  Project Years  --------___
Cost       Units             2              3              4              5              6          Total
INCOME
Payments for Private and State Ranches
participating in project                                                           450,060       414,530        401,300         51,750         25,875      1,343,515
Payments for Pasture Establishment in
Kukar-Jangarai                                                                      23,000         23,000         23,000           -              -           69,000
Payments for work undertaken on Group
Ranches in Mubi Area ...............                                                62,500        109,480        78,200            -              -          250,180
Payments for work undertaken for
private individuals 1/ .............                                                  -              -              -          287,500        264,500        552,000
TOTAL INCOME                                                                         535,560        547,010        502,500       339,250        290,375      2,214,695
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries and Wages 2/
Heavy Equipment Specialist 3/ ......                 20,000 p.a.       1            20,000         20,000         20,000        20,000         20,000        100,000
Counterpart Staff 4/ ...............                  5,000 p.a.       2            10,000         10,000         10,000        10,000         10,000         50,000
Accountant .5,000 p.a.                                                  1            5,000          5,000          5,000          5,000          5,000        25,000
Plant Supervisor .4,000 p.a.                                           3            12,000         12,000         12,000        12,000         12,000         60,000
Secretary .3,000 p.a.                                                  2             6,000          6,000          6,000         6,000          6,000         30,000
Poreman Mechanic ......      .............            2,400 p.a.       3             7,200          7,200          7,200          7,200          7,200        36,000
Mechanic/Fitter .......      .............             1,600 p.a.      6             9,600          9,600          9,600          9,600          9,600        48,000
Chief Clerk/Typist ................                   1,600 p.a.       2             3,200          3,200          3,200          3,200          3,200        16,000
Storekeeper/Clerk ......      ............            1,200 p.a.       2             2,400          2,400          2,400          2,400         2,400         12,000
Crawler Tractor and Grader Driver ..                   1,200 p.a.    10             12,000         12,000         12,000         12,000         12,000        60,000
Wheel Tractor Driver                                     800 p.a.       7            5,600          5,600          5,600          5,600          5,600         28,000
Clerk .800 p.a.   4                                                                  3,200          3,200          3,200          3,200          3,200    16,000
Vehicle Driver.                                         600 p.a.    14               8,400          8,400          8,400          8,400          8,400        42,000
Laborer .....           . .        .....                 400 p.a.    10              4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000         20,000
Subtotal                                                                108,600        108,600        108,600        108,600        108,600        543,000
Running Costs of Tractors and
Vehicles
Crawler Tractors 5/                                                                166,000        152,000        139,000        111,000        97,000        665,000
Wheel Tractors 6/ ................                                                  21,000         16,800         16,800         12,600         12,600        79,800
Motor Graders 7/ ................,,,                                                18,500         15,500         15,500        12,500         12,500         74,500
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles 8/                                                        14,050         14,050         14,050        14,050          14,050        70,250
Trucks, 5-ton 9/                                                                     3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000        15,000
Tractor Transporters 10/                                                             3,750          3,750          3,750          3,750          3,750        18,750
Subtotal                                                                 22d,300       205,100        192,100        156,900        142,900        923,300
Repairs and Maintenance
Machinery and Equipment 11/ ........                                                 9,700          9,700          9,700          9,700          9,700        48,500
Subtotal.                                                                  9,700          9,700          9,700         9,700          9,700         48,500
Field Allowances
Professional  Staff 12/ ......                                                       4,000          4,000         4,000           4,000         4,000        20,000
Non-Professional Staff 13/                                                          24,000         24,000        24,000          24,000        24,000       120,000
Subtotal                                                                  28,000         28,000       28,000          28,000        28,000        140,000
Misc ellaneous 14/                                                                     18,600        17,600        16,600          15,200        14,500         92,500
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                                                391,200       369,000       355,000         318,400       303,700      1,737,300
NET OPERATING INCOME                                                                    144,360        178,010      147,500           20,850      (13,325)       477,395
(Total Income - Total Expenses) 
1/ In years 5 asd 6 it is envisaged that a total of 1,250 and 1,150 days of work, respectively, will be undertaken for
private ranchers by equipment from the usit.
2/ Overtime is included where appropriate in the wages of drivers and mechanics.
3/ Allocation for expatriate specialist includes base salary plus gratuity of 10X, travel and resettlement expenses,
and educational allowance.
4/ Assumes appointment of two agricultural graduates to work as counterparts to the heavy equipment specialist.
5/ 3,000, 2,750, 2,500, 2,000 and 1,750 hours per Crawler per year for years 2, 3 4, 5 and 6 respectively at N 9.00 per
hour per D7 Crawler and at N 7,10 per hour per D6 Crawler for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
6/ 2,000, 1,600, 1,600, 1,200 and 1,200 hours per Tractor per year for years 2,3 4, 5, and 6 respectively at N 1.50 for fuel,
oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
7/ 1,200, 1,000, 1,000, 800 and 800 hours per Grader per year for years 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 respectively at N 5.15 per hour for fuel,
oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
8/ 12,000 miles per year per vehicle at N 0.13 per mile fir fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
9/ 10,000 miles per year per vehicle at N 0.15 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
10/  5,000 miles per year per vehicle at N 0.25 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
11/ 27, of cost beginning with year of acquisition.
I2/ N 10.00 per day for two professional staff for an average of 200 days per year.
13/ N 4.00 per day for 30 non-professional staff for an average of 200 days per year.
14/ 5 of operating costs; includes administrative expenses.
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 15
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
A. Terms of Reference of the Technical Auditor
1.         The consultant would be a senior livestock production specialist
of international experience and reputation in livestock production and
livestock project management in region(s) ecologically similar to Nigeria.
The objective of the consultants' work would be to review the technical
progress of the project and to provide technical advice and support to
the Project Director and staff. To that purpose, the consultant would be
expected to make two annual visits to the project of about one month each
to review on the spot each of the project components. Within 45 days of
each visit, the consultant would submit reports (a) to the Permanent
Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources on the
project overall, (b) to NAB on those aspects of the project that NAB
finances, and (c) copies of both reports to the Bank. During the first
year of the project, the consultant would assist LPU and the public ranching
companies to set up systems of technical data collection and analysis for
the purpose of a continuous technical monitoring of project development.
2.         The work of the consultant would include, inter alia., critically
evaluating and making appropriate recommendations concerning the following:
(a)  performance of all components of project management,
(b) ranch and grazing reserve performance as evidenced by
stocking rates, calving and weaning rates, mortality
rates, rates of weight gain, culling rates, and other
relevant livestock standards,
(c) formulation and application of project stocking, breeding,
feeding, and pasture and forage policies,
(d) formulation and application of range management policies
for the grazing reserves,



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(e)  planning and execution of the project training program,
both local and overseas,
(f) field extension techniques and standards of technical
assistance provided to private ranchers and smalIholder
fatteners,
(g)  execution of the project research program, and
(h) execution of the program of importation and multiplication
of pasture seeds and cultivars.
B. Terms of Reference of the Livestock Taxation Study
1.         Nigerian cattlemen owners are subject to "Jangali" a per head of
cattle tax. Jangali is very unpopular with herdsmen who employ various
ruses to avoid compliance and consequently collection rates seldom exceed
5o-6o%. Traditional herdsmen do not differentiate between the Government
extension agent and tax collectors and as a result extension agents find it
difficult to gain the confidence of cattlemen. Thus, in its current form
Jangali is a constraint to the development of improved animal husbandry
techniques within the traditional livestock sector. On the other hand,
Jangali is an important source of revenue for state and local governments
and cannot be abandoned unless it is replaced by a workable alternative.
2.         An experienced and qualified firm of consultants would be engaged
under the project to examine alternatives to Jangali which would ultimately
remove the cattle owners' distrust of Government's extension and veterinary
agents but at the same time permit the collection of a reasonable level
of taxation from the livestock industry.
3.         Specifically, the consultants would inter alia:
(a) describe and analyze relevant local, state, and federal
livestock taxes and duties emphasizing Jangali but also
including:
(i) marketing taxes,
(ii) slaughter taxes,



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(iii) dealers and butchers licenses, and
(iv) import taxes and duties on live animals, meat
and other animal products.
(b) critically review the organization and administrative
procedures of the above taxation systems paying
particular attention to:
(i) collection procedures,
(ii)  responsibility for tax administration,
(iii) expected and actual tax collections and factors
responsible for any existing divergence, and
(iv) expected and actual cost of tax collection.
(C) evaluate the relative importance of the different
forms of livestock taxes to federal, state, and local
Government finances.
4.         In the light of the above analysis, the consultant5would propose
appropriate modifications to the existing system of livestock taxation in
order to achieve the objectives set out in para 2. They would propose
methods to implement their proposals and would evaluate the effect of such
proposal in terms of Government revenue.
5j.        The consultants would evaluate the merits of creating a "livestock
fund" which would permit the establishment of stable relation between revenues
collected from the livestock sector and the allocation of Government rescurces
to the sector and, if necessary, specify means to finance and administer such
a fund.
6.         The consultants would investigate the extent to which cattlemen
could be expected to pay directly for Government services such as animal
health, watering facilities, etc.
Qualifications of the Study Team
7.         It is envisaged that the study would require the services of a livestock
specialist, experienced in livestock production under conditions similar to Nigeria,
and of an economist with experience in fiscal theory and policies. Each consultant
would be engaged for six months, four months would be spent in field work and two
months in report writing. A report would be submitted to the Government and the Bank
no later than after eight months from the start of the study in the field.



ANNEX 1l
Page h
C. Preparation of a Detailed Identification Report for Development of Projects
Within the Areas to be Cleared of Tsetse-fly in Nigeria
1.         Internationally recruited consultants would be hired to prepare
an acceptable strategy for the development of tsetse-fly eradicated land
areas, mainly within the area known as the "middle belt" of Nigeria, and
to identify priority areas which could form the basis of rational project
development. Further consultancy services would be engaged in due course
to carry out detailed project preparation. The study would proceed as
follows:
(a) a survey of resources made available or due to be made
available through tsetse clearance operations,
(b) the development of an agricultural strategy to take
into account the production needs of the country in
relationship to the land use and social constraints
inherent in the areas studied, and
Cc) the preparation of detailed terms of reference for the
preparation of the identified projects, together with
the relevant manpower requirements and estimated costs.
2.         Prior to calling for consultant proposals the Government and the
Bank would consult on the detailed terms of reference for the identification
study.
Background
3.         Over the past ten years, 34,000 square miles of tsetse infested
land has been reclaimed, leaving about another 50,000 square miles to be
reclaimed.   These areas cover the Sudan, Sub-Sudan and Northern Guinea zones.
The United Kingdom has provided technical assistance to identify areas where
tsetse clearance is possible and, in addition, is making recommendations on
agricultural development and land use for the areas. The North East State
has been fully surveyed, and a land resource report has been published. A
similar report is currently being prepared for the North Central State.
Federal Government is aware of the need to properly develop these areas being
cleared of tsetse, but no plans have been prepared; and, in general, current
development is haphazard.



ANNX 15
Page 5
IL.        In the recent IBRD agricultural sector review, it was pointed out
that the reclaimed areas has high potential for both crops and livestock
production, and that if planned and managed properly, could make a significant
contribution to Nigeria's beef and cereal supplies. The greater part of the
areas which might be reclaimed lie within Benue Plateau State, Kwara State
and the Southern portion of the North Eastern, North Central and North
Western States.
5.         Even though ODA is preparing land use maps for the areas cleared
of fly, no real strategy for development has been proposed by Government,
except that development should be related to the potential land use of the
area. Over the last ten years, as tsetse clearing has been undertaken
itinerant graziers and settlers have moved in and taken up land. If this
haphazard development is allowed to continue, then large areas with high
potential for various agricultural uses will be lost or, at best, be farmed
at a subsistence level. The opportunity should now be taken to properly
plan the areas on a regional or zonal basis, taking into consideration
agricultural aspects, tenurial, social and general infrastructure require-
ments. The plans should lead to a phased investment program which would
be developed over perhaps a twenty-or thirty-year program.
6.         In brief, planning should include:
(a)  Agriculture.  There are various types of farming systems
ranging from extensive ranching, mixed farming and arable
smallholders. There is a case for the development of all
these systems. Properly managed ranches would reduce some
of the overstocking procedures in the North and could
produce significant quantities of beef for the fast growing
urban sector. Commercial mixed farming, based on one-or two-
tractor units, could be considered desirable for three
reasons: (i) to enable private capital gained in industry
to be reinvested in the land - and there are many Nigerians
with money who would welcome the opportunity to farm
commercially; (ii) to provide employment for those rural
people who do not want to have management responsibilities;
and (iii) possibly most importantly there is a need for a
commercial farming sector to involve itself in specialized
production such as seed multiplication for distribution to
the smallholder sector. The smallholder development could
also be an important component of any zonal planning and
might include intensive settlement schemes for people from
the overpopulated areas of Nigeria.  Other settlement schemes
could be envisaged on a much more extensive and low cost
basis, whereby the minimum infrastructure is presented
(e.g. roads and water supplies), thereby allowing spontaneous
settlement to take place.



ANNEX 15
Page 6
(b) Land Tenure. Since most of the land is reclaimed land and
generally empty, land rights are not bound by tradition
and could be rationalized, resulting in either freehold
or leasehold titles, together with all the advantages
which go with the security of title.
(c)  Social Services.  In these large areas, social services
including health, water supplies, schooling, would need
to be considered and included in the overall plan; and
(d)  General Infrastructure.  Would include all the support,
physical and administrative, services necessary to serve
the people who take up business within the planned area;
such services would include markets and marketing, credit,
feeder and crop extraction roads, soil and water conservation,
research and possibly investments for the initiation of
rural industries.
7.         In effect, the opportunity should now be taken to plan regional
and agricultural development for the future. The planning and investments
could be large, because here for the first time in Africa, South of the
Sahara, is a country with a very large population (70 million), much of
it under pressure, with large amounts of new land due to become available.
8.         The immediate need is to assist the Nigerian Government to prepare
regional or zonal development plans for the land cleared of tsetse and that
to be cleared in the future. Basic planning can be carried out using the
land use information being prepared by ODA, existing aerial photography
and 1:50,000 topographical maps. The order of planning would be as follows:
(a) A broad survey of the area to determine: (i) the effectiveness
of tsetse eradication and the degree of reinfestation; (ii) the
land use; (iii) the existing infrastructure and services; and
(iv) the human and livestock production;
(b) Categorizing the priority areas by potential for livestock
and crop production;
(c)  Preparation of a schedule of phased development based on (b)
above for the cleared and the uncleared areas, taking account
of potential social and economic needs of the country.



ANPX 15
(d)  Preparation of a detailed feasibility study fQr thooe
priority areas for which development wol "b  i3 4a
during a five- or six-year period.  Tha stu WM w
include all the proposals in para 4i, WiO anf      Qt'
factor which might be pertinent to the ar.,9to Q
developed.  Except for the inclusion of inegnaive
irrigation schemes, detailed soil surveys wi*ld be
unnecessary.
Requirements
The preparation of the identification report is e_pqctq4 to take
about four months (inclusive of report writing).  The con's i,  t team  qld
be made up as follows:
Team Leader      -      4 months
Land Planner      -     4 months
Agriculturalist  4-       months
Commercial
Livestock/Crop
Specialist     -      4 months
Hydrologist      -      2 months
Road Engineer    -      2 months
Economist        -      2 months
Total            22 manR-months
The consultants)who would be internationally recruited,would be selected on
the basis of their qualifications and experience with particular respect
tc:
(a)  a wide range of different types of agricultural developlaent;
(b) the preparation of large-scale planning for land use and
regional development.



ANNEX 16
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro.ect Coat Suat,cY
(N)
--------------------------------------------  P-j-t Year -------------o-
1             2              3             4              5             6            7             _            Total
NELC L!
Infrastructure and equipment                      -          210,000        110,380         84,200          -             -             -            '            404,580
Breeding cattle                                   -            93,700        77,100         54,300        67,700                        _            _            292,800
Incremental fatteoiog cattle                      -           70,950        179,960        113,300        77,880                        _            ,            442,090
Working capital       t                           _           167.280       135,470        218.380        207.830                       -            -            728,960
subtotal                          -           541.930       502.910        470.180        353.410          *            -             -         1,868,430
WLC /2
Infrastr-cture aod equipment                      -          875,270        510,700        399,080           -            -             -            -          1,785,050
Breoding cattle                                   -          651,150        333,950        337,100       349.700          -             -             -         1,671,900
Increcmental fattening cattle                     -          591.000         22.400       451.100           -             -             -            -          1 064 500
Waking capital                                    -          175,100        875,000        592,000       775,000                        .             .         2,417,100
Subtotal                          .         2,292,520     1,742,050      1,779,280      1,124,700         .                                     6,938,550
Infta-tr-cttro and equipment                      -          314,300        194,800        153,800           -            -             -            -            662,900
Working capital                                   -           501.920          -              -              ,            ,             _                         501.920
Subtotal                          -           816.220       194.800        153.800           -            -             -             -         1.164.820
Private Farmers/Traders
InfEast-uctore and equip-ent /4                   -          581,400        385,200       449,000        127,600        63,800          -            -          1,607,000
breeding cattle /4                                _           126,000       249,000        510,000       565,000       290,000       169,000          -         1,909,000
Incremental fattening cattle  4                   -          378,000        223,650        158,550        32,550          -             -            -            792,750
Wor-kig capital 14                                -           145,080       190,800         88,580        124,860       24,180        26,600          -           600,100
Technical services [5                            1.150          2.160         3.930          4.000         4.000         4.000         4.000        4,000          27.240
l,bto1l1                         1.150      1.232.640     1.052.580      1.210.130        854.010      381.980       199,600         4.000      4.936,090
SIalholder Fatteners
Incremental fattening cattle /6                   -            88,000        77,000        165,000       330,000       165,000          -             -           825,000
Incremental feed /6                               -            22,400        19,600         42,000        84,000        42,000          -             -           210,000
Technical services L5                            3.450         5.180          6,560         10.070        10,650        11,800        11.800        11,800         71,310
Subtotal                         3,450        115.580        103.160       217.070        424,650       218,800       11,800        11,800       1.106,310
G-azing R.eerves /7
Pulani - Infrastructure and equipment             -           204,600       358,050        255,750           -            -             -             -           818,400
Other expenses antil completion
of eeserve                             -           58,800        171,500       263,230        278,490       282,760       214,080       88,500       1,357,360
Kukar Jangarai - Infrastracture and equipnent   -             101,750        70,180         70,180           -             -            -             -           242.110
- Other e-penses .ntil
conpletion of reserve                     10775          23.960         35.920        47.880        47.880          -             -           166.415
Subtotal                          _           375.925        623,690       625.080        326.370      330.640       214.080        88.100       2.584.285
Proiect Adoinis tratton and Central Services
LPU - Vehicles and Equip-ent /8                 85,500           -             -              -            67,600          -            -                          153,100
Salariea and wages                       194,800       194,800        194,800        194,800       194,800       194,800        70,800        70,800      1,310,400
Other eapenses until conpletion of
reserve                                 29,600        29,600         29,600         29,600        29,600        29,600        29,600       29,600         236,800
Consultants                               72,000        72,000         72,000         20,000        19,000        19,000        19,000       19,000         312,000
cead naltiplicotioc                         -           41,500         23,100           -              -            -             -             -            64,500
Overseas traiOnin                           -            24,000        24,000         24,000         24,000         -             -             -            96,000
heavy Equipment Unit 1/
aachinery and eqipmet                    1,1O,000            -              -             *              *                                                  1,100,000
Wor-kig capital /l1 200,000                                  -              -             -              -                                                     2 _  ,00,000
Research and Training   i
TIfrastru-ture and equip-ent                  -            71,700        15,200         15,200         15,200       15,200          -             -           132,500
Salaries and wages                            -           105,600       105,600        105,600        105,600      105,600          -             -           528,000
Other exp.esee until completion of
reserve                                     -           58.700         60.000         60,800        61,500        62.200          -            -            303,200
Subtotal                     1.681.900        597.900        524.200       450.000        517.300       426.400      119.400       119,400       4.436.500
Total Project Cost Before Price Contingency       1,686,500      5,)72,715      4,743,390     4,905,540      3,600,44o    1,357,820        544,880      223,700      23,034,985
Price Contingey /12                                 101,190        705,828        809,469     1,071,704      1,052,574       508,261       224,412      131,862       4,605,300
TOTAL PROJ3CT ODST                                1,787,690      6,678,543     5,552,859      5,977,244      4,653,014    1,866,081       769,292       355,562      27,640,285
/    A-n.n  6.
/2   Apnex 7.
/3   Anne-   6  Purchases of steers fur fattening would be financed by seasonal bank overdraft. Ifaximun overdraft repqiremeets would build up to sooe N 1,700,000 in PY 5 and 6
and would decline thereafter.
/4   Aneax 9.
/5   Staff seconded by State to LPU.
/6   Annex 10.
/7   Annex 11.
/8   Annex 12.
/9   Annex 14.
/10 Estiated need to cover about 6 nonths operating expenses.
/11 Annea 13.
/12 6% pee year from year 1-8.
Decembhe 14, 1973



ANNEX 17
NIGERIA
Livestock Development Pro,iect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IBRD Loan
(US$'000)
Estimated Disbursement
Project      End of                        Amount      Balance
Tear       Quarter                    Disbursed      of Loan
1           0                            -          21,000
1                           300         20,700
2                           300         20,1400
3                           300         20,100
4                         1,600,        18,500
2           1                           950         17,550
2                         1,050         16,500
3                         1,050         15,450
4                         1s100         14,350
3           1                           950         13,o400
2                           950         12,450
3                           950         11,500
4                           900         10,600
4           1                         1,100          9,500
2                         1,100          8,400
3                         1,100          7,300
4                         1,100          6,200
5           1                           800          5,400
2                           800          4,600
3                           800          3,800
4                           800          3,000
6           1                           800          2,200
2                           800          1,400
3                           700            700
4                           700
December 14, 1973



ANNEX 18
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference of LPU Senior Staff
A. Qualifications and Experience, Duties and
Responsibilities of the Project Manager
1.        The Project Manager would be a specialist of international standing
recruited to direct and coordinate the execution of the project for its first
six years. He would work under the Director, Federal Livestock Department
(FLD), to whom he would be administratively responsible, and with whom he
would be expected to consult on a continuing basis.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Project Manager would be
as follows:
(a) A university degree (or its equivalent) in Agriculture or Veterinary
Science with a major in Animal Husbandry, Animal Production or an
allied field.
(b) Actual experience or an indicated potential as a successful project
leader able to coordinate the activities of a team of individuals
working in various areas of a development program.
(c) A broad practical background in ranch development with experience
in land clearing, pasture establishment and management, and cattle
production, under tropical conditions.
(d) Experience in the use of credit in farm development and the ability
to prepare and appraise technically and financially viable ranch
development plans.
3.        The duties and responsibilities of the Project Manager would be:
(a) To establish the Livestock Production Unit (LPU) within FLD and
direct it on a day-to-day basis. This would include the appointment
of staff, delegation of duties and responsibilities, and supervision
of work programs of all LPU staff.
(b) To assist Government in the identification and selection of the two
Deputy Project Managers, the internationally recruited staff and
the various counterpart staff to be employed under the project.



ANNEX 18
Pag'e 2
(c) To plan, in cooperation with senior project staff, the various
work programs to be undertaken, to supervise the work of all staff,
and to coordinate implementation of the variottg p6gb3t cobimpo6enits
to ensure that the execution of the project as a whdii is orderly
and efficient.
(d)  To undertake responsibility for organizing the selection of the
private ranchers and the small-holders who would participate in
the private sector credit scheme.
(e)  To appraise the technical and financial viability of ranch plans
prepared by the Ranch Planning Specialist and his staff and recomi-
mend appropriately to the Nigerian Agricultural BaA'(NAB) on
technical and financial grounds.
(f)  To ensure that all ranches being financed under the project are
given adequate technical supervision and extens-ion assistance ahnd
that their development proceeds in an orderly arid efficient fasion.
(g)  To ensure that records covering all aspects of Project implementa-
tion are adequately kept.
(h) To report to NAB as and when required by that institution concerning
the progress on individual ranches being financed by NAB under the
Project.
(i) To recommend to Government the names of suitable candidates for
out-of-country training, to submit an appropriate course of train-
ing to be followed by successful candidates, and to arrange for'
the placement of the trainees in selected institutions of higher
learning.
(j) To recommend to Government the names of suitable candidates to
act as Consultants for carrying out studies and for the preparation
of follow-up projects, to draw up terms of reference and facilitate
the work of the consultants in the field.
(k) To prepare quarterly and annual reports for submission to Govern-
ment and IBRD and such other documents as they may from time to'
time require.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
B. Qualifications and Experience, Duties and Responsibilities
of Other Internationally Recruited Specialists
4.        Under the project, five internationally recruited technical special-
ists would be employed to assist the Project Manager and the counterpart staff
in the execution of the Project. They would have university degrees (or equi-
valent qualifications) in agriculture or a related field with a background of
postgraduate work and broad practical experience in the area of their specialty.
In addition, three Ranch Technical Officers would be appointed to provide tech-
nical support for the public and private sector ranch development programs.
They would be certificate or diploma holders in agriculture or an allied field
with 8-10 years experience in ranch development and grassland cattle produc-
tion under tropical conditions. Details of the job descriptions of the various
posts are as given below.
I.   Ranch Planning Officer
(a) Under the direction of the Project Manager, to assume responsibility
for the drawing up of plans for the development of the nine public-
ly owned and the 50 private ranches participating in the Project,
the NE grazing reserve and the Kukar-Jangarai Pasture Improvement
Program. Also for drawing up the procedures to be followed by
participants in the smallholders fattening scheme.
(b) In the execution of the private sector scheme, to take responsibil-
ity for coordination of the work to be carried out and of the
staff involved.
(c) In the course of the above duties, to train at least two counter-
part workers in the preparation of ranch development plans,
budgeting, financial analysis and record keeping.
(d) The specialist would be expected to undertake such other duties
as may from time to time be assigned by the Technical Director.
II. Heavy Equipment Specialist
(a) Under the direction of the Project Manager, to take responsibility
for the Heavy Equipment Unit (HEU). Such responsibility would
include the initial ordering of equipment, the establishment of
a headquarters and field depots, and the training of professional
counterparts, drivers, mechanics and associated personnel. Ongoing
responsibilities would include day-to-day organization and coordi-
nation of the work of the Section, the deployment of personnel and
machinery, and the servicing and maintenance of working units in
the field.



ANNEX 18
Page 4
(b) In the development of the work program of HEU, the specialist would
be expected to keep in close liaison with the Project Manager and
the Ranch Planning Officer to ensure an orderly and smooth execu-
tion of capital works called for in the overall Project plan of
operation.
(c) Close contact would also be expected between the specialist and
the Land Development Specialist at Mokwa to ensure the application
of newer techniques of land development and pasture establishment
with a minimum of delay.
(d) The specialist would be expected to undertake such other additional
duties as the Project Manager may from time to time assign.
III. Livestock Production Specialist
(a) Under the direction of the Project Manager, to be responsible
for the organization of the Research and Training Unit to be es-
tablished at Mokwa and Fashola. As the Officer-in-Charge of the
overall research and training efforts, the Specialist would be
expected to coordinate the activities of the other two specialists
and the six counterparts working under him and to design and execute
a comprehensive and practical research program aimed at providing
technical support for the pasture/animal production approach to
be applied under the Project on participating ranches.
(b) The specialist with his staff would undertake responsibility for
designing the advanced practical training in ranch development
and beef cattle management for ranch managers, Government employees
and private individuals and ensuring all aspects of its execution.
Candidates entering the program would be selected by the specialist
and his staff in consultation with the Project Manager.
(c) In addition to the above responsibilities, the specialist would
be expected to play a major role in ensuring the success of the
small holders fattening scheme. The latter will require careful
supervision of the purchase, feeding, management and disposal of
livestock and is expected to require the full-time services of a
Ranch Technical Officer who would be assigned to the scheme to
exercise day-to-day control. Overall supervision and coordination
of the responsibility for the successful outcome of the undertaking,
however, would be assumed by the specialist.
(d) To undertake such other duties as may from time to time be assigned
by the Project Manager.



ANNEX 18
Page 5
IV. Pasture Production Specialist
Land Development Specialist
(a) Under the direction of the Officer-in-Charge of the Research and
Training Unit to be located at Hokwa and Fashola, the specialists
would develop research programs in land development techniques,
pasture establishment, and pasture and forage production and uti-
lization. An important aspect of the work would be cooperative
studies on least-cost approaches to land clearing, pasture estab-
lishment, supplementary forage production, pasture and forage uti-
lization and related aspects of pasture/animal production under
tropical conditions. Concurrently, the specialists would be ex-
pected to involve themselves in the planning and execution of the
training program.
(b)  Additional responsibilities of the Pasture Production Specialist
would include planning and supervision of the work program of the
seed multiplication unit which would be established at Bornu ranch,
and undertaking which would include species and cultivar adaptabil-
ity trials, fertilizer experiments, and studies on the productivity
of various tropical grasses and legumes with respect to dry-matter
production, seasonal distribution of production, seed set, seed
harvesting, yields and such.
Cc) In the course of his duties, the Land Development Specialist would
be expected to work in close cooperation with the Heavy Equipment
Specialist to ensure that proven techniques likely to reduce the
costs and increase the effectiveness of the Heavy Equipment Section
would be applied in the field with a minimum of delay.
(d) Both specialists would be expected to undertake such additional
duties as the Officer-in-Charge of Research and Training or the
Project Manager might from time to time assign.
V.   Ranch Technical Officers
(a) Under the direction of the Project Manager, or such others as
he may designate, to provide technical support and guidance to the
managers of the various publicly owned ranches and the owners and
managers of the private ranches participating in the Project. Also,
to provide similar support and supervision to the small holders in
the fattening scheme, to the various units of the group ranching
scheme and the Kukar-Jangarai Pasture Improvement Program.
(b) It is anticipated that Ranch Technical Officers, as well as par-
ticipating in the above roles, would be involved in the detailed
planning and siting (in collaboration with the Ranch Planning



ANNEX 18
Page 6
Officer and on an individual ranch basis), of houses, barns, yards,
dips, fences, roads, firebreaks and such. Also, in the building
or erection of such structures they would involve themselves in
assisting ranch managers with procurement, organization of labor,
supervision, etc.
(c) In addition to these regular duties, to undertake such other work
as the Project Manager or his designate might assign.



NIGERIA                                                                               ANNEX 19
LIVESTOCKI DEVILONUENT PROJECT
NAS Cash Flow from Project
(N)
-Project Year ------------------------------------------------------------------
2           3            4             5            6                7             8          9-14             15           16              17              18
CASH INFLOW
Loan service receipts
NELC                            12,457       39,490       70,781       104,447       217,501       217,501      217,501       217,501          -          -                 -
WLC                             70,404      189,888      298,241       410,868       463,023       897,025      897,025        897,025
NLPC                            11,944       31,291       44,539        84,462        84,462        84,462       84,462        84,462
Private farmers/traders        41,310        99,360      241,900       342,200      380,150       752,750       752,750       752,750       752,750       752,750
SmalIholder fatteners          109,600      205,500      410,999       821,997    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916    1,027,916
Sob-Total         245.715       565,529   1.066.460    1,763,974    2,173,052    2,979.654    2,979.654    2.979.654    1,780,666    1,780,666    1,027,916    1,027.916
IBRD Loss:
Ranching Compasies 1/       1,496,917    1,112,511   1,301,560    1,100,605           -               -             -             -             -             -             -
Private farmers/traders 2/   652,365        699,240      984,150       599,250
Smallholder fatteners 3/        78,660       68,828      147,488       294,975       147,488
Snb-Total      3,227.942    1,880.579   2,433198;       1.994.830       147,488 B                                 _ ____
TOTAL CASH INFLOW     2.473.657    2.446.108   3.499.658   3.758,804    2,320.540    2.979.654    2,979.654    2.979.654    1.780_666    1.780.666    1.027.916    1.027.916
CASH OUTFLOW
Loas disbursements
NELC                           262,255      306,873      351,897       356,853          -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -
WLC                          1,482,194    1,020,635   1,260,476    1,110,620            -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -
NLPC                           251.440      155.840      123.040          -             _             -             -             -             _             -             -             -
Sub-Total       1,995,889    1,483,348   1,735,413    1,467,473
Private farmers/traders       869,820       932,320   1,312,200        799,000
Smallbolder fatteners          104,880      196,650      393,300       786,600       983,630       983,630       983,630       983,630       983,630       983,630       983,630       983,630
Total Disb-r.m..nts  2,970,589    2,612,318   3,4-40,913    3,053,073         983,630       983,630           -             -            -             -             -              -
Expenaes 4/                         34,000        36,000       38,000       42,000        44,000        48,000        30,020        39,000        24,000        24,000        20,000        20,000
IBRD Loan Service 5/                89,670       247,511     403,885       564,401       642,060       962,684       962,684       962,684       962,684       962,684          -             -
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW   3,094.259    2.895.829   3.882.798    3,659.474    1,669690    1.994,314    1.976.314            1.976.314    1.9703.14    1.970.314    1.003.630    1.003.630
ANNUAL BALANCE (NO LAGS)          (620,602)    (449,721)   (383,140)        99,330       650,850       985,340    1,003,340      1,003,340:    (189,648)    (181,648)         24,286        24,286
Lags in Loan Service Receipts 2/ (25,000)        (32,000)    (50,000)      (69,000)      (41,000)      (81,000)         -             -             -             -            -          (298,000)
ANNUIAL BALANCE (WITH LAGS)       (645,602)    (481,721)  (433,140)         30,330       609,850       904,340    1,003,340    1,003,340?    (189,648)    (189,648)           24,286       322,286
CUM. BALANCE (WITH LAGS)          (645,602)  (1,127,323) (1,560,463)  (1,530,133)    (920,283)         (15,943)      987,397    7,007,437    6,817,789    6,628,141    6,652,427    6,974,713
1/  757. of disbrsements.
2/  75b. of disbursements PY 2 - 6.
3/ 752. of incremental disbursenents PY 2-6.
4/  Based os the following assumptions: -  (a) fixed costs         -  field staff *10,000 p.a.;
- head qu-ter  staff N423,000 p,a.  PY 2-7, and *5,000 p.a. thereafter.
(b)  variable costs and defaults 0.5% of loan service receipts.
5/ Loan N 8.6 nillion at 7 1/4% for a tern of 16 years, including a grace period of 6 years.
6/  10% of loan service receipts delayed to following year  (i.e. average delay about 5 weelc).  Figures rounded tR thousands.
Decembre 14, 1973.



ANNEX 20
Page 1
NIGERIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate of Return
The computation of the economic rate of return is based on the
following assumptions:
(a) Except for NELC's Darazo and Bornu ranch development
projections, which show the actual expected develop-
ment of these two ranches, the projections of the
other models represent an average unit of the type to
be established under the project.
(b) The project cash flow consists of the aggregation of the
incremental cash flows of the different project compo-
nents phased as follows:
ProJect Year (PY)
1       2        3       4        5       6  Total
----    ------- Number ---)
NELC Ranches                -        2       -        -       -        -     2
WLC  Ranches                -        5       -        -       -        -     5
NLPC Ranches                -        2       -        -       -        -     2
Private Ranches                     30      10       10       -        -    50
Cattle Fattening
Smallholders              -      160     140      300     600      300  1500
(c) Except for the Heavy Equipment Unit (HEU) which has an ex-
pected project life of 5 years, cash flows have been arbitrarily
calculated over 20 years. Except for breeding cattle, whose
incremental value has been imputed as a cash inflow in year
20 and for the scrap value of HEU equipment which has been
credited to year 6, no residual value has been imputed to
project assets.
(d) In the case of ongoing ranches making pre-development losses,
fixed assets have been valued at nil because they have no
actual earning power, nor alternative use.



(e) The input and output markets are believed to express satis-
factorily the economic value of the goods and services
involved in this project; it has not been deemed necessary
to apply a shadow price to either labor or foreign exchange.
There are no import duties or quantitative restrictions
affecting the importation of cattle and therefore the inter-
nal price of cattle reflects reasonably well the conditions
of supply and demand in Nigeria's cattle market.



AN=EI 20
NIGERIA                                                              Table 1
LIVESTOCK DEV8LPMEMT PROJECT
Sammary Rate of Return Calculation
(N)
Private             Smallholder              Heavy
PY             NELO              WLC                 NLPC             Farmer/Traders           Fatteners         Equipment Unit               LPU                  Total
1              -                                                                                                   (1,10U,000)             (344,172)           (1,444,172)
2          (464,613)         (1,964,999)         <307,610)             (1,256,550)            (110,240)               144,360              (293,480)           (4,253,132)
3           (464,868)        (1,465,115)          (138,880)              (959,90o)             (77,740)               178,010              (293,480)            (3,221,973)
4           (289,653)       .(1,336,715)          (14,140)             (1,065,535)            (171,600)               147,500              (293,480)           (3,023,623)
5          (145,585)            (519,430)         114,700                (758,300)            (343,200)                20,850              (357,600)           (1,988,565)
6           150,615             435,910           114,700                (420,400)             (66,300)               (13,325)             (266,ooo)               (64,800)
7           216,430             672,500           114,700                 183,700              175,500                550,000  1/          (130,000)            1,782,830
8           263,960             688,600           114,700                 422,800              175,500                  -                  (130,000)            1,535,560
9           271,910             765,370           114,700                 942,200              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,111,980
10            271,910            894,890           114,700               1,039,850              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,347,150
11           271.910           1,148,070           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,608,480
12            271,910          1,237,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,698,220
13           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000             175,500                                      (149,700)            2,786,220
14           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,786,220
15           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                 (149,700)             2,786,220
16            271,910          1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,786,220
17           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)            2,786,220
18           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                                     (149,700)            2,786,220
19           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                                     (149,700)            2,786,220
20           271,910           1,325,810           114,700               1,048,000              175,500                  -                  (149,700)           10,825,570  2/
21         1,483,190 2/        4,726,630 2/        114,700               4,475,250 2/           175,500                  _                  (149,700)
Rate of Return          14%                13%                18%                     13%                  15%                    -                                          11.0%
1/   Residual value of equipment.
2/   Includes incremental herd value.
December 14, 1973



OF                                                                                      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W~~~~~ 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~0~04tO~~m
of  Biafra~~~~~~~~~~P.ik-IU R



