OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2028 NI
I EDO      __
Project Agreement
(Industrial Rehabilitation Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE NICARAGUA
Dated                                     , 1981


﻿1
s
- + - .a e - - , 5 s I,- - - s


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2028 NI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               - (3           , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONS RUCTI  AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DE NICARAGUA (hereinafter
called Banco Central).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Banco
Central agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Banco Central, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement for the Project will be made
available to Banco Central on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as -so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of Fondo
Section 2.01. Fondo shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and conduct its operations and


﻿-2-
affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, industrial and
investment practices, with qualified and experienced management.
Section 2.02. In order to strengthen the capability of its
Industrial Projects Department, Fondo shall employ., not later than
September 30, 1981, a deputy director and a financial analyst,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall meet the needs of such Industrial Projects
Department.
Section 2.03. For purposes of carrying out Parts B (2),
B (3), B (4) and B (5) of the Project, Banco Central shall enter
into a technical assistance agreement with FINAPRI and each
Beneficiary, the terms and conditions of which shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank and shall include, inter alia, that the Benefi-
ciary, with the assistance of FINAPRI, shall employ consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) Fondo shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Category (1) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment for purposes of Part A of the Project to Participating
Banks in accordance with the provisions of Participating Bank
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and of the Schedule to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) Banco Central shall cause the Participating Banks to
provide, out of their own resources, additional financing, as
necessary, to Investment Enterprises, in such amounts and for such
time as shall be required under the applicable Investment Project.
Section 2.05. Banco Central shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement including, inter
alia, such obligations in respect of the Appraisal and Supervision
Guidelines.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Banco Central shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, Fondo shall present Investment


﻿- 3 -
Projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for
withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, Fondo shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project, in accordance with Part II.A
1 (b) of the Schedule to this Agreement, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by Fondo for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prises and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b),
and (c) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or
before March 31, 1983.
Section 2.08. Fondo shall: (a) operate its Industrial Proj-
ects Department with an adequate number of qualified personnel
until the Closing Date; and (b) through its Industrial Projects
Department: (i) provide the necessary training, the timing and
content of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to the staff
of Participating Banks and Investment Enterprises for purposes of
preparation, appraisal and supervision of Investment Projects
under Part A of the Project; (ii) monitor the progress of the
Project in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(iii) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than two months
after the end of each calendar quarter, a report on the progress
of the Project during each such quarter, including the results of
monitoring and periodic evaluations of the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 2.09. (a) Fondo undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, it shall cause all Sub-loans to be made on
terms whereby the Participating Banks shall obtain, on the basis
of a Sub-loan Contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other


﻿- 4 -
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of Fondo and the Participating Banks, including the provisions of
Part II. B of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b) Fondo shall exercise its rights, and shall cause each
Participating Bank to exercise its rights, in relation to each
Investment Project in such a manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and Fondo; (ii) comply with its obligations in
respect of the Sub-loan Contract; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.10. Fondo's Statement of Policy and Appraisal and
Supervision Guidelines shall not be amended except in agreement
with the Bank.
Section 2.11. The Borrower, the Bank and Fondo shall, from
time to time, at the request of any of them, review the lending
terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement
and shall make such adjustments as agreed among them.
Section 2.12. Fondo undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, all funds repaid to Fondo by each Participating
Bank under a Participating Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement (on or
before the maturities agreed thereunder) which are not required
for the repayment of principal of, or any other charges on, the
Loan shall be used for additional lending for the purposes set
forth in the Law.
Section 2.13. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary course of
business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on operations and to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.14. (a) The Bank and Banco Central shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Bank and Banco Central shall from time
to time, at the request of any party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by Banco Central of its obligations under this Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition of
Fondo and other matters relating to the purpose of the Loan.


﻿-5-
(b) Banco Central shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of Fondo.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Fondo shall: (i) maintain separate accounts
and a consolidated Project Account on its records to be used
exclusively for the Project and shall register in such separate
accounts all receipts and payments under each Category of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices; and (ii) take all steps neces-
sary to ensure that for each Investment Project the responsible
Participating Banks maintain Sub-loan Accounts adequate to demon-
strate the use of the proceeds of the Loan in the execution of
each such Investment Project.
(b) Fondo shall have the accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) hereof and its financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses, statement of source and application
of funds and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(c) Fondo shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of the fiscal year: (i) certified copies of its financial
statements, and financial statezznts with respect to the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof for such year as so audited,
and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
(d) Fondo shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements with respect to the Project and Fondo, and the audit
thereof, as the Borrower and the Bank may from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Fondo: (i) shall establish and maintain,
and cause the Participating Banks to establish and maintain,
procedures adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project, including the costs of the Project inputs and activities,


﻿-6-
and value of outputs, such procedures to permit identification
of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and disclosure of their use in the Project and the Investment
Projects; (ii) shall enable, and cause the Participating Banks to
enable, the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project, the
Investment Projects and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish, and cause the Participating Banks to furnish,
through Fondo, to the Bank, at regular intervals, all such inf or-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of
the Project and the Investment Projects, including, inter alia,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Subsidiary Loans
and the Sub-loans, the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, and the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of Fondo, the Participating Banks and FINAPRI.
(b) Within six months following tle last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, Fondo shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and benefits derived and to be
derived from them, the performance by the Bank, Fondo, the Par-
ticipating Banks, the Investment Enterprises and FINAPRI of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the Technical As *.i' nce Agreements, the Partici-
pating Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Sub-loan Contracts,
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Banco Central, acting for Fondo, thereunder shall
terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so
notify Banco Central thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Central:
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo
Carretera Masaya, km 3
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
1096
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banco Central, for Fondo, may be taken or
executed by the Executive Director of Fondo or such other person
or persons as Banco Central shall designate in writing, and Banco
Central shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.


﻿- 8 -
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE NICARAGUA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Part I.   Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures of Fondo
with Respect to Part A of the Project:
A.   Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
Participating Banks will meet the following criteria:
(i) past experience and good performance in industrial enterprise
lending; (ii) suitable financial condition and management, includ-
ing compliance with auditing requirements established by the laws
of the Borrower; (iii) adequate managerial and technical capabili-
ties; and (iv) adequate number and qualifications of technical
staff.
B.   Terms and Conditions
1.   Subsidiary Loans will finance a maximum of 70% of
Investment Project costs of Investment Enterprises.
2.   The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan outstanding
from time to time will bear interest of not less than 12% per
annum for Sub-loans under Part A (1) of the Project and not less
than 14% per annum for Sub-loans under Part A (2) of the Project,
which rates may be changed from time to time by the Borrower in
consultation with the Bank in accordance with Section 3.02 of the
Loan Agreement.
3.   Each Participating Bank will repay the principal and
other charges on each Subsidiary Loan not later than 15 calendar
days after the dates on which repayment of principal and other
charges on the corresponding Sub-loan fall due and payable.
4.   Each Participating Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement will
include such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, and shall provide, inter alia:
(a) that the Participating Bank will assist in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project by providing
additional credit to Investment Enterprises on
terms and in amounts necessary to ensure adequate
financing of the respective Investment Projects, in
accordance with the lending and operating policies
and procedures set forth in Part II below;


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the Participating Bank will conduct its
business and operations in accordance with appro-
priate financial and administrative practices and
under the supervision of competent and experienced
management;
(c) that Subsidiary Loans will be made and will be
repayable in c6rdobas;
(d) that the Participating Bank will establish and
maintain a Sub-loan Account for each Sub-loan, and
have such Account and related statements audited as
required under Part I.C of this Schedule;
(e) that the Participating Bank will assist with
its own technical staff, or cause assistance to be
furnished to, Investment Enterprises for the
evaluation and supervision of Investment Projects;
and
(f) that the Participating Bank will follow the
Appraisal and Supervision Guidelines in approving
and supervising Investment Projects.
C.   Disbursements and Records
1.   Each Participating Bank will: (i) establish and main-
tain Sub-loan Accounts in respect of its Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and of each Sub-loan made; (ii) have each of its Sub-loan
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors;
(iii) furnish to Fondo as soon as available, but in any event not
later than four months after the end of its fiscal year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements and of such Sub-
loan Accounts for such year as so audited, and (B) the reports of
such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
Fondo shall request; and (iv) furnish to the Bank and Fondo such
other information concerning the Sub-loan Accounts and the audits
thereof as the Bank or Fondo shall request.


﻿- 11 -
Part II. Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures of the
Participating Banks with Respect to Part A of
the Project:
A.   Eligibility of sub-borrowers
1.   (a) The Participating Banks will process all applications
for Sub-loans in accordance with their normal administrative
procedures. The evaluation of the creditworthiness of applicants
and the analysis of the Investment Projects will be carried out by
the Participating Banks.
(b) Approval of Sub-loans will be made on the basis of
appraisal reports prepared by the Participating Banks in accord-
ance with the Appraisal and Supervision Guidelines including,
inter alia: (i) an evaluation of the technical, managerial and
financial feasibility of rehabilitating the Investment Enterprise;
(ii) an analysis of the future prospects of the Investment Enter-
prise, taking into account the potential for marketing its
expanded output, the potential for increased exports, its foreign
exchange earnings or savings capacity and its ability to ade-
quately service its total debt; and (iii) a detailed descrip-
tion of the procurement procedures to be followed by the Invest-
ment Enterprise, including the prices quoted and the criteria to
be used for awarding any contract.
(c) For purposes of determining eligiblity of an Investment
Enterprise under Part A (1) of the Project, the appraisal report
referred to in paragraph (b) above for a proposed Investment
Project under such Part A (1) of the Project will include an
analysis which indicates that the Investment Enterprise has the
intention and market prospects to export at least one-third of the
total output of such Investment Enterprise upon completion of the
first full year of operations following completion of the
rehabilitation to be achieved under the proposed Investment
Project.
2.   An Investment Enterprise will be eligible for Sub-loans under
this Agreement which, together with Sub-loans under the Loan
Agreement (Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project)
between the Borrower and the Bank and the Development Credit
Agreement (Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project)
between the Borrower and the Association, both dated January 4,
1980, will not exceed in the aggregate $3,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Terms and Conditions
1.   The principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan will
bear interest at a rate of not less than 15% per annum for Sub-
loans under Part A (1) of the Project, and not less than 17% per
annum for Sub-loans under Part A (2) of the Project, which rates
will be exclusive of all applicable commissions, taxes, charges or
fees of any kind whatsoever. Such interest rates may be changed
from time to time by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank.
2.   The principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan to an
Investment Enterprise will be repaid: (a) in the case of a Sub-
loan to finance working capital requirements, in not more than 5
years; and (b) in the case of a Sub-loan for repair, replacement
or modification of fixed installations, in not more than 15 years,
including, in both cases, a grace period of not more than 3 years
and an amortization period of not less than 18 months.
3.   Each Sub-loan Contract will provide, inter alia, for the
following:
(a) the Investment Enterprise's obligation to keep records
of the expenditures under a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project;
(b) the Investment Enterprise's obligation to insure goods
to be imported against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery to the place of use or installation;
(c) the Investment Enterprise's obligation to enable the
applicable Participating Bank to comply with its obligations under
the applicable Participating Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) that the Sub-loan will be made and be repayable in
c6rdobas;
(e) that the goods and services for an Investment Project
will be used exclusively in the carrying out of such Investment
Project;
(f) the right of the Participating Bank to require the
Investment Enterprise to: (i) carry out the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards; and (ii) maintain
adequate records;


﻿- 13 -
(g) the right of the Participating Bank to inspect the
goods, land, sites, works and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records
and documents;
(h) the right of the Participating Bank to suspend and
terminate access by the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of any Sub-loan upon non-performance of obligations under
the applicable Sub-loan Contract and, in appropriate cases, to
premature such Sub-loan; and
(i) all such other provisions as necessary to enable the
Borrower to fulfill its obligations under the Loan Agreement and
to enable Fondo and the Participating Bank to fulfill their
obligations under the applicable Participating Bank Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and to protect their interests and those of the
Bank.
C.   Disbursements and Records
1.   Whenever any goods or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of a Sub-loan will be procured or paid for by any Par-
ticipating Bank, the Participating Bank will promptly inform the
Investment Enterprise of the amounts charged to the corresponding
Sub-loan Account in respect of such goods or services.
2.   The Participating Bank will furnish periodic statements to
the Investment Enterprise, showing the amounts withdrawn from the
Sub-loan Account, the outstanding principal balance and the
interest due on such outstanding balance.
D.   Supervision
1.   The Participating Bank will ensure that amounts withdrawn
from the Sub-loan Account are applied exclusively to expenditures
made for the respective Investment Project, and are used exclu-
sively in the territory of the Borrower.
2.   The staff of the Participating Bank and Fondo will regularly
visit the Investment Enterprises and the sites where Investment
Projects are being carried out to ensure that Investment Enter-
prises are effectively and punctually carrying out such Investment
Projects and are complying with the provisions of the applicable
Sub-loan Contracts.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -        day of       , 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


