1
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Free of Poverty
1;foShop
'Te WO,id Kmnk
Report No AB42
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF-RY: Sanaa Basin Water Management Project
Region                      Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                      Irrigation and drainage (40%); General water; sanitation and flood protection
sector (40%); Central government administration (20%)
Project ID                  P064981
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN
Implementing Agency         NWRA
Address                     National Water Resources Authority
Address. P 0 Box 8944
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person Chairman NWRA
Tel (967-1) 231-733    Fax. (967-1) 231-733    Email
<NWRA@y et ye>
Ministry of Planning and Development
Address Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person Vice-Minister Abdul Rahman Tarmoom
Tel (967-1)250-117, 250-632 (direct)  Fax (967-1) 250-109    Email
Environment Category        A
Date PID Prepared           April 17, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         January 6, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 3, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The dramatic nature of Yemen's water scarcity is well documented in the 1997 IDA Water Strategy
report, which identified three major challenges:
(i) Groundwater mining threatening sustainability of the resource (water tables dropping in some
areas up to 6 meters a year).
(ii) Developing new affordable water resources for Yemen's growing cities (Sana'a City receives
water from the public system only once every four days).
(iii) Inadequate access to safe water and sanitation(less than half the population with drinking water
access and even fewer with safe sanitation).
IDA proposed an action agenda, including: (i) measures at the macro level (efficiency pricing for water,



2
PID
national debate, reorientation of public expenditures, action on qat; (ii) drastically improved sector
management (restructuring of the urban and rural water supply sectors, water conservation in agriculture
and a regional approach to water planning); (iii) local level solutions (building on Yemen's tradition of
community based water management) in a partnership between water users and a supportive public
sector; and (iv) institutional development measures (adoption of a national water strategy, a water law,
and capacity building for water institutions).



3
PID
Since 1997, discussion within Yemen on the above agenda culminated in the adoption of a National
Water Strategy by the Council of Ministers in December 1998, which broadly endorses the agenda
discussed in IDA's 1997 report. Relevant actions in the last five years for improved water resources
management, include:
*   Creation of a single water resource agency, National Water Resources Authority (NWRA).
*   Successive rises in the diesel price towards import parity.
*   Elimination of credit subsidies for groundwater development (pumping equipment).
*   Restructuring of the urban water supply sector, and tariff increases (with Bank support under the
ongoing Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project, to be further developed under Urban Water
and Sanitation APL).
*   Adoption of a demand-driven approach to rural water supply (with Bank support under the
ongoing Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project).
*   Adoption of a policy of cost recovery and hand-over of spate irrigation schemes to users (with
Bank support under the ongoing Irrigation Improvement Project).
*   Implementation of a water conservation program in agriculture and the creation of a mechanism
to promote it (under the recently completed Land and Water Conservation Project and the
Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project, under preparation).
*   Initiation of technical assistance program  for dams to enhance the capacity of General
Directorate of Irrigation (GDI) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI), and
completed dam inventory for Sana'a Basin (funded from the ongoing Southern Governorates
Rural Development Project).
*   Approval by Parliament of a Water Law in July 2002, signed into effect as Law # 33 on August
31, 2002 by H.E. President Saleh, followed by Cabinet Decrees, declaring the basins of Sa'ada,
Sana'a and Tai'iz as 'protected zones', under Article 49 of the Water Law.
*   Creation of a Sana'a Basin Committee (SBC) by Cabinet/Prime Minister Decree in September
2002 (Decree # 263, 2002, of September 10, 2002).
The challenge is enormous and many years of sustained commitment at all levels will be needed to
achieve a measurable impact. Though government actions point in the right direction, there has been little
discernible impact on the ground, especially on those aspects of sector reform that could contribute to
controlling groundwater mining.
IDA's approach is to support Yemen in moving towards a viable strategy, a national debate on
groundwater conservation, vastly improved public awareness and by testing solutions on the ground. The
proposed project/program is the key vehicle for pushing forward changes in water resources
management.



4
PID
2. Objectives
Out of about 1 10,000 ha of arable land, some 24,000 ha are irrigated. About 12,000 ha of these are in the
project area (Phase I - 5 years - of a 15-year APL), of which about 4,000 ha would initially be targeted
for improved irrigation.
The objective is to increase both the quantity and the useful life of the available resources within the
Sana'a basin and to increase the efficiency of agricultural use and so allow time for a gradual shift to a
less water-based rural economy, by the following:
(i) Conserve water by introducing farmers to modern irrigation/improved equipment and methods
that may save up to 40% of water (demand management).
(ii) Change pumping and water use behavior in the basin through a comprehensive Information and
Public Awareness Campaign (IPAC) that would touch all segments of the basin population
(demand management).
(iii)Accelerate recharge, so as to save precipitation run-off.from evaporation (supply management).
(iv) Obtain a better understanding of the basin's hydraulic situation, including through systematic
monitoring, leading to improved water management (Institutional development).
(v) Build a strong and sustainable institutional base for central and local water basin management,
including water regulation and enforcement, planning and water allocation, that may be
replicated in other basins (institutional development).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's long-standing involvement in the water sector in Yemen puts it at the forefront for the Sana'a
Basin water management reform agenda. The Bank is by far, the Government's principal partner in water
resources management and strategy. Government, Bank and other donors worked together on the 1997
Water Sector Review, and the Bank assisted in the development and discussion of the National Water
Strategy, approved by the Cabinet. Also, the Bank has been financing and intensively supervising the
Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project since 1996, which was testing approaches to integrated water resources
management and producing lessons that will be of value for implementing the SBWM program/project.
Finally, the Bank has:
- worldwide experience with integrated water resources management;
- technical resources that can bring international expertise to bear on the complex problems of: (i)
groundwater management under severe drought and overdraft conditions, (ii) institutional
arrangements that have worked elsewhere, and (iii) water legislation and regulation; and
- has the respect of other donors in Yemen (and elsewhere) to take the lead in a joint effort to help
the government to grips with groundwater management.
4. Description
Project activities would focus on 10 sub-basins (out of 22 in the entire Basin) in four representative Basin
zones: in the Western Area (southern Hamdan and Bani Matar districts); South Eastern Area (Bani
Bahloul, eastern part of Sanhan districts); Eastern Area (Bani Hushaish, northern Bani Al Harith, part of
Khawlen districts); and North Eastern Area (Nihm, and part of Arhab districts) - see map for details.
Small dam rehabilitation, according to priorities based on safety criteria, would be basin-wide. The areas
were selected on the basis of: (i) representativeness of the sub-basins; (ii) high chance of success in
meeting project goals; and (iii) favorable environmental impact on the selected sub-basins, i.e.



5
PID
- scope for irrigation improvement and reduction in groundwater abstraction;
- favorable socioeconomic conditions, tribal/ethnic homogeneity, communities willingness to
participate;
- positive impact on the potential recharge; and
- scope for supply structures (dams) development and improvement.
(a) Demand Management and Irrigation Improvement (Total cost US$11.7 million)
This component seeks to achieve water savings and conservation in agriculture by increasing the
efficiency of water use for irrigation through introduction of modern irrigation technologies. The
component would focus on all or part of the 10 selected sub-basins. However, out of the total 12,500 ha
irrigated land of these sub-basins, the project would initially target about 4,000 ha. These areas have
proven the most suitable during stakeholder assessments in the course of project preparation. Activities
would include:
(i) Water conservation: Physical interventions under this component would be demand-driven with
an incentive system. It is expected to improve overall irrigation efficiencies in the target area
through: (a) upgrades of existing piped delivery systems; (b) conversions of open channel to
piped delivery systems; and (c) introduction of modern pressurized irrigation to fields already
served by satisfactorily piped delivery systems. Also included may be up to 300 ha of land
leveling, plastic tunnels/covers for technology demonstration purposes and wadi protection
works in vulnerable areas. To reduce the risk of irrigation expansion, pipes for conveyance
systems would, wherever possible, be PVC rather than steel, to make diversion of water to new
areas more difficult.
(ii) Community organization: The project will be advertised in the selected sub-basins, and farmer
groups (usually around a well) interested in participating will register with the local council or
the Technical Secretariat of the Sana'a Basin Commission (TS-SBC). They will then be visited
by a social mobilization team (SMT - see Institutional Arrangements) to discuss obligations and
benefits of participation. The SMT will help with the creation of community-based water user
associations (WUAs). These WUAs, the most decentralized legally established institutional
entities, would be supported by the technical and managerial training and extension programs,
carried out by GDI through the SMTs.
(b) Supply Management and Recharge Improvement (Total cost US$10.2 million)
This component would enhance and accelerate groundwater recharge through mostly small conventional
dams, sub-surface dams and other structures. It is expected that farmers would then pump from shallow
aquifers instead of the deep aquifers which are a critical supply source of drinking water for urban and
rural domestic use. The project would: (i) build five recharge structures, including four dams (one of 18
m, one of 16 m and others of less than 10 m height) and a series of low cascading check structures.
During implementation, other potentially viable recharge technologies, such as underground dams to
catch sub-surface flows in wadis, spate breakers and water harvesting structures, would also be studied;
(ii) rehabilitate existing hill dams to prevent potential dam failure as well as to recover recharge capacity
diminished by accumulated sediments; and (iii) establish a sustainable dam management system through
strengthened capacity of GDI.



6
PID
New Dams to be Constructed
Reservoir
Name of Dam          District       Type of Dam       Height         Volume
m           1000m3
Shib Al Maadi             Nihem         Rockfill Dam        18.0             500
Bayt Shaiban              Nihem         Rockfill Dam        16.0             800
Al Melaah              Bani Hushaish    Rockfill Dam        8.0              130
Al Sinh                Bani Hushaish    Earthfill Dam        8.0             100
Bahman                    Nihem        Cascade Dams         3.0              100
Source: GDI and Joint Venture
Existing Dams to be Rehabilitated
Reservoir
Name of Dam       District   Type of Dam   Height    Volume     Year   Constructed by
m       lOOOm3     built
Al-Masham           Arhab        Earthfill   17.0       750      1988   Farmers + AFPPF
Eial Hussein       Nihem         Earthfill   16.0      450       1998       Farmers
Wadi Mahalli       Nihem         CFRD        12.0      395       1985      GDI/MAI
Beni Naji          Nihem         Earthfill   11.0      540       1999   Farmers + AFPPF
Al-Hayathem        Nihem         Earthfill   17.2       250      1996       Farmers
Arisha/Qatran      Nihem         Earthfill   13.0      980       1997       Farmers
Thoma              Nihem         Earthfill   18.0       130      1999      GDI/MAI
Al-Jae'f           Hamdan       Masonry      19.0       100      2000       AFPPF
Tozan              Hamdan        CFRD        25.0      246       1987      GDI/MAI
Beryan          Beni Husheish    Earthfill   25.0      750       1997   Farmers + AFPPF
Allujma          Beni Bahlul     CFRD        18.0       100      1997      GDI/MAI
(c) Institutional Development and Capacity Building (Total cost US$3.2 million)
(i) Regulatory Framework Development and Application: Given the flaws of the Water Law, the
project would support and assist NWRA with the drafting and finalizing of bylaws, including for the
'protected zones', and regulations that might mitigate some of the shortcomings of the law.
Subsequently, regulatory systems and procedures for water rights management and administration,
including for registration and permits of well users and drillers, will be developed and applied. The
Sana'a Basin may become a demonstration model country.
(ii) Basin Water Management: The new NWRA Sana'a Branch will assume responsibility for overall
basin-wide water resources investigation, regulation and monitoring. This will include, delegation to
user groups and monlitoring of the regulatory system, overview and execution of water resource
research and monitoring programs in coordination with other responsible agencies and stakeholder
groups. It will also include supporting the evolution and operations of the SBC that will effectively
represent all water sector stakeholders in an equitable and sustainable development and use of the
basin's water resources. The project will support the NWRA Sana'a Branch and the SBC in the
development of capabilities in all of these areas, with training, technical assistance and equipment.



7
PID
(iii)Basin Hydrogeological and Water Resources Investigations and Monitoring: For the project area,
systems will be developed, where possible through community management, to monitor and record
climate, rainfall, wadi flows and groundwater levels. Investigations and studies will include: (a)
analysis of project impacts through dam and other wadi structures on aquifer recharge and
groundwater levels (covering also rehabilitation dams outside the four sub-basin zones); (b)
exploratory deep boreholes; (c) physical surveys and laboratory testing for aquifer modeling to gain a
better understanding of the Basin's hydrogeological characteristics and groundwater balance
situation; (d) satellite imagery at three points in time during the course of the project to analyze and
quantify project impacts on cropping and irrigated areas; and (e) field level water balance
assessments at similar intervals, to determining the effects of irrigation system improvements on
water use. These programs will be coordinated between NWRA Sana'a Branch and relevant Ministry
of Agriculture and irrigation (MAI) departments. Support for equipment and TA will be provided
under the project. The investigations may need to be extended to areas outside of the basin to cover
potential additional water sources not previously studied, e.g. the aquifer under the sparsely
populated desert area of Ramlat Assaba'atain.
(d) Information and Public Awareness Campaign (Total cost US$1.2 million)
Despite past Government efforts at raising public awareness of the severe water scarcity in the Sana'a
Basin, the level of understanding of the impending crisis among the public at large, including many
politicians and decision makers, is still weak. The Information and Public Awareness Campaign (IPAC)
would be carried out by the NWRA Sana'a Branch, through a specially staffed IPAC unit, in close
collaboration with the TS-SBC. The IPAC component would consist of an intense 4-year program to
convey nuanced messages of water conservation to well-targeted population segments. Specifically it
would address: (i) schools, both teachers and students; (ii) parliamentarians; (iii) journalists; (iv) small
and large farmers; (v) women (through health centers and hospitals), and men (through WUAs and Local
Council meetings); (vi) industrial users; and (vii) rural and urban domestic interests groups. The
campaign, designed as an initial four year program, would likely continue as an open-ended endeavor to
conserve the livelihood of the Basin. It would use a wide range of media, such as TV, radio, newspapers,
seminars, focus groups.
(e) Environmental Management Plan and Mitigation Program (Total cost US$0.7 million)
The proposed project is essentially aiming at improving the overall environmental situation of the Sana'a
Basin, notably through water resources conservation, pollution prevention and improving environmental
health conditions. Partly due to the construction of recharge dams (of which only two exceed the 15 m
statutory limit - one of 16 m, another one of 18 m), and partly because of the project's complexity and
social sensitivity (dealing with a scarce resource), the project has been rated as Environmental CategorY
A operation, thereby triggering a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) with an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and Mitigation Program. Evaluations carried out under the EIA concluded that
other than Dam Safety (OP/BP 4.37), Involuntary Resettlement (and Land Acquisition) - OP/BP 4.12 -
and Pest Management (OP 4.09), none of the Bank's remaining Safeguards were triggered. A dam safety
report has been prepared. Its Executive Summary is part of the EIA. A model Pest Management Plan for
grapes - the most prevalent crop, other than qat, has also been prepared (also included in the EIA). Due to
the high prevalence of qat in the basin and its indiscriminate spraying with uncontrolled pesticides, the
project would also design a qat Pest Management Plan within 6 months of Project Effectiveness.
Although no involuntary resettlement is expected, an Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition
Framework has been prepared - Part of the EIA. Mitigation measures and related costs for these
Safeguards are described in the EIA.



8
PID
(f) Project Management and Monitoring (total cost US$1.5 million)
(i) The long-term idea is to move towards basin water management, through the creation of a Sana'a
Basin Agency (SBA). As an initial step, the SBC was recently created by Prime Minister Decree
(Section B-2, above). The SBC is chaired by the Mayor of Sana'a City. Membership consists of a
broad stakeholder representation, including, the Office of the Governor of Sana'a, Ministry of
Planning and Development (MOPD), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Information, Ministry
of Interior, Ministry of Electricity and Water, MAI, NWRA, NWRA Sana'a Branch, Sana'a Local
Corporation, Agricultural Cooperative Union (ACU), representatives of WUAs, WUFs and LCs. The
SBC may be extended as warranted. The feasibility and modalities of an SBA, that may evolve from
the SBC and become a model for future basin agencies, would be studied during the early stages of
project implementation.
(ii) TS-SBC would be created (extension of current Project Preparation Team unit) under the SBC. The
tasks and responsibilities of the TS-SBC would include, overall project coordination, monitoring
(including  EMP), project procurement and   financial management, institutional/capacity
building/training activities, including support to the Ministry of Health's Bilharzia mitigation
program, and as needed to implement the EMP. In addition, the TS-SBC would be responsible for the
preparation of Phase II of the SBWM APL.
(iii)The Demand and Supply Management components would be implemented by the line ministry
(MAI/GDI), through an expanded existing Project Implementation Unit from the LWCP that has
been fully integrated into the ministry. Tasks and responsibilities would include design,
implementation, SMTs, monitoring, capacity building/training, including to Department of Plant
Protection (DPP) and MAI/GD1, coordination with SSARDA and the Agricultural and Fisheries
Promotion Fund (AFPF), which carry out, or finance, similar activities. A financial management
system (FMS), compatible with the project FMS in the TS-SBC, would be set up and assisted with
training to build an independent, transparent FMS in MAI. Training would also be provided for
procurement management.
(iv) The NWRA Sana'a Branch would receive TA for capacity building and training to fulfill its role as a
basin manager (water resources use and recharge monitoring/planning, water quality control) and
implementer of the Water Law. In addition, the IPAC componlent would be implemented through a
special unit within the NWRA Sana'a Branch and funded under the project.
(g) Phase II Project Preparation (total cost US$1.5 million)
On the basis of achievements of Phase I of the SBWM APL, and subject to the findings of the project
mid-term review and/or other assessments, a Phase II project would be prepared during the second half of
the project period.
(h) Program description/Triggers
Phases II and III of the APL would expand the lessons onto the entire basin to maximize the impact of
water conservation. To progress from one phase to another, a 'trigger' mechanism would be set up.
Triggers would be OUTPUT oriented to be meaningful and measurable.
Performance triggers for Phase II of the APL:



9
PID
(i) O&M for Demand and Supply Management functions well (adequate government budget for dam
maintenance).
(ii) The GOY will continue to work on reducing diesel subsidies, as outlined in the policy letter,
para. 5, dated September 16, 2002.
(iii) Sana'a WWTP effluent standards (treated WW and sludge) meet the Bank's guidelines for
restricted irrigation (Pollution Abatement and Prevention Handbook).
(iv) Two thirds (2/3) of the project targeted areas are converted to improved irrigation by December
31, 2006.
(v) Non-expansion of groundwater irrigated zones in the project area.
Project estimates are summarized below.
Components                                                          US$/M
1. Demand Management and Irrigation Improvement                    11.7
2. Supply Management and Recharge Improvement                      10.2
3. Institutional Development and Capacity Building                  3.2
4. Information and Public Awareness Campaign                         1.2
5. Environmental Management and Mitigation Program                  0.7
6. Project Management and Monitoring                                 1.5
7. Phase II Project Preparation                                      1.5
Total                                                              30.0
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                   $3.50
IBRD
IDA                        $24.00
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS $2.50
Total Project Cost         $30.00
6. Implementation
Physical components, i.e. supply and demand management, would be implemented through the respective
line ministries or agencies - MAI and NWRA Sana'a Branch. The latter would be particularly in charge
of implementing a water monitoring and abstraction regulation system. Overall project coordination and
monitoring would be entrusted to the TS-SBC attached to the SBC (see above). The following
institutions will be involved in project implementation:
National Level
(i) Sana'a Basin Commission. (See 'Project Management and Monitoring" above).
(ii) The TS-SBC would report technically to the SBC. While project budgets would be approved annually
by the SBC, project funds (local and foreign) would flow directly from Finance to the TS-SBC. The
TS-SBC   would  be     responsible for overall project coordination, monitoring, budgeting,
accounting/financial management, procurement, disbursement. It would initially function as the
Technical Secretariat of the SBC, later it would be fully integrated into the Sana'a Basin Agency, if such
an agency was to be created.
TS-SBC key staff would include 6 local staff: a TS-SBC Manager and Deputy Manager (institutional



10
PID
development/public information specialist and water resources engineer/water management specialist
respectively; a social development/WUA specialist; a procurement specialist; an accountant/financial
management specialist/administrator; and a monitoring and evaluation specialist.  A  long-term
environmental monitoring consultant would be engaged. Funding for a number of short-term
international technical assistance consultants would also be made available. Specific terms of reference
(TOR) would clarify the roles, responsibilities, and powers of the TS-SBC, and relationships between the
TS-SBC and other agencies, such as NWRA; SBC; the implementing line ministries or agencies (MAI,
NWRA Sana'a Branch) and stakeholder groups (WUAs, WUFs, LCs). The TS-SBC would also work
with other agencies and private companies, as far as possible on a contract basis.
(iii) NWRA, responsible for country-wide water resources monitoring and management, has currently
two branch offices in Tai'z and Aden. ThLVRA Sana'a Branch would be responsible mainly for
implementing, enforcing and monitoring the Water Law (see 'Institutional and Social Development',
above) and the implementation of IPAC. The IPAC unit would be staffed by an international
communications/public relations expert and three local experts with a background in communication,
social sciences, psychology. The team would receive basic training from an international consultant and
regular refresher courses thereafter.
(iv) MAI/GDI would be responsible for the physical implementation ofDwand Management
irrigation improvement works. The existing project unit would be expanded as needed. It should include
at least an irrigation engineer/procurement specialist, a social scientist and an accountant/FM
specialist/administrator; and (b) Supply Management the construction of one new dam (out of four) and
the rehabilitation of two existing dams (out of eleven) would be implemented through GDI directly, with
the assistance of the international TA team which may have to be expanded as required. Overall
implementation and overview would require at least a hydrogeologist, a dam engineer/procurement
specialist, a social scientist, and an accountant/FM specialist/administrator. The three latter may be
shared with the existing Demand Management unit. An independent Dam Safety Panel of three regional
experts would be available on a contractual basis. Throughout the project, however, GDI would be
responsible for dam monitoring, supervision of maintenance, O&M training to WUAs (through the
project), provision, on a rental basis, of heavy equipment for maintenance of access roads, dams and
desiltation. GDI would also be responsible for monitoring cost recovery of O&M costs by WUFs (see
below). The bulk of the O&M budget for dam maintenance would be borne by GDI.
While financial management (FM) and procurement would initially be managed by the TS-SBC for the
entire project, MAI/GDI would prepare the procurement documents and receive training in these fields,
so that for Phase 11 of the APL, these responsibilities could be transferred from the TS-SBC to the line
ministry and agency.
(v) Within MAI/GDI, through consultancy services, Social Mobilization Teams (SMTs) (two, for
demand management and one for supply management), would be established. The SMTs would be social
intermediaries between the MAI/GDI and the stakeholder organizations, namely well-field WUAs for
demand management (irrigation) and wadi WUFs (dam management) for supply management - see
below. Their major role would be to raise awareness among farmers and to inform them of technology
options, costs and benefits of modern irrigation equipment, including the incentive system available
under the project and enlist the farmers' commitment to refrain from irrigation expansion, in return for
subsidized modern irrigation equipment. On dams, they would instruct communities about dam safety,
maintenance and O&M cost recovery.
Each SMT for demand management would consist of three local staff: an irrigation/groundwater
engineer, an agro-economic/financial specialist, and a sociologist/social communicator/WUA specialist.



11
PID
The latter might be a woman, but flexibility for cultural sensibilities should prevail. For supply
management, the SMT would comprise two local staff, one a social/institutional /WUA specialist and
one a dams O&M engineer. Visits to stakeholders should always take place in a team, in order to assure
the consistency of the messages conveyed by the SMT. Since participation is based on demand, it may
require several interactions between the SMTs and farmers/communities, until they decide for or against
participation. Once a WUA/WUF agrees to participate and is established, it would sign a tripartite
contract with MAL and the TS-SBC, for Demand Management; and Local Council and MAI, for Supply
Management. The contract would stipulate, among other conditions, on (i) Demand Management, that in
return for subsidized modern irrigation technology, irrigation areas would not be expanded; and (ii) on
Supply Management, that, as far as the government is concerned, any land to be flooded, including
private land, would be a local contribution to the project. Any compensation issues would be settled
within the community. A Resettlement Framework has been prepared as part of the Environmental
Impact Assessment to cover the unlikely event that compensation for land and/or resettlement may
become an issue (OP/BP 4.12).
Stakeholder Level
(vi) WUAs:   User groups around wells (WUG) and village-level WUAs are in some cases already
existing. The project, through the SMTs, would encourage the formation of WUGs and help with the
creation and legal registration of WUAs Low # 39 of 1998 - Law of Cooperative Associations and
Federations). An officially registered village or well-field WUA is a prerequisite for participation in the
irrigation modernization program. WUAs constitute official stakeholder representations, to whom the
central structure (NWRA Sana'a Branch) is expected to delegate management, regulatory and
enforcement responsibilities, and who would also be represented in the SBC. This NWRA/stakeholder
partnership would be tested in the project, as it does not yet exist. WUAs would also be encouraged
outside the targeted areas for irrigation modernization.
(vii) WUFs: Local beneficiaries of dam and recharge structure' developments along a wadi branch would
be organized into village or multi-village WUFs, following social mobilization principles similar to those
for the demand management interventions. These wadi-based WUFs would be formed in advance of
implementing physical infrastructure. They would be in charge of maintaining the dam recharge
capabilities.
Overlaps and mergers between WUAs and WUFs may occur and be desirable in areas where both types
of intervention are present. In any event, WUAs may federate to form WUFs at the sub-basin level. They
would also be represented as water sector stakeholders on the SBC.
(viii) O&M of Dams: Routine O&M of dams will be two-fold. First, for dam structure, performance and
safety, GDI and GOY will be primarily responsible. This includes dam repairs and maintenance of
access roads requiring heavy equipment. Second, sustainability of benefits from recharge and access
roads will be the responsibility downstream beneficiaries. For GDI and as indicated above, the project
will provide training, capacity building, initial support facilities, including equipment, vehicles and
software, to carry out regular dam inspections and assessments. Provision is also made for annual dam
safety inspections by a panel of experts, in accordance with World Bank safeguard policies. WUAs will
be assisted with training and extension services, including leasing of heavy equipment as needed for
annually removing silt deposits. Dam and reservoir access roads not requiring heavy equipment will also
be maintained by the beneficiary communities.
Heavy equipment for darn (dredging) and access road maintenance work would be either leased by GDI
and sub-let to WUFs, or the latter could directly hire the equipment from the private sector. Specialized



12
PID
maintenance work on dam or access roads would be carried out by GDI or private contractors. GDI
would be responsible for payment and would collect the community counterpart funds from the WUFs.
GDI would, initially through project consultancy services, provide training and TA to WUFs in the
concept of maintenance and for light maintenance work, as described above.
(ix) Stakeholder fora/consultations: During project implementation extensive stakeholder consultations
(workshops, focus group meetings, explicit representation in SBC events/meetings) would take place - a
continuation of the project preparation process. It is expected that this would create momentum and trust
and, as a result, ownership in the process by the stakeholders. Such events would be organized by the
TS-SBC, but could also be initiated by the stakeholders themselves.
Financial Management and Accounting. The financial management arrangements are summarized
below.
The project financial management (FM) responsibility will be centralized at the TS-SBC. The TS-SBC
will be solely entrusted with all aspects of project financial management, including: processing of all
financial transactions, maintaining project's records and books of accounts, financial and progress
reporting, reconciliation of project's account and project's records with IDA records, Special Account
replenishments, compilation and updating of annual budgets as well as analysis of variations between
actual expenditures and the approved budgets. The project accounts will be maintained on accrual basis
to enable monitoring all costs adequately.
FM System:    Establishment of adequate FM system acceptable to IDA wilCbdciion  of
Effectiveness. The main elements of adequate FM system are: (i) qualified financial officer, (ii) FM
procedural manual, (iii) accounting records and books of accounts, (iv) appointment of qualified
independent auditor, (v) set up of computerized accounting and reporting system capable of producing
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR), and (vi) establishment of adequate auditing arrangements.
Completion of the first four components in a manner satisfactory to IDA would be sufficient to meet the
Condition of Effectiveness. To expedite the process of establishment of adequate FM system, the TS-SBC
will benefit from FM experiences gained through previous IDA-financed projects (i.e. Rural Access
Project), through the adaptation of existing FM manuals to the specific needs of this project by the
project financial officer. Therefore, the appointment of qualified financial officer, which will take place
shortly after signing the credit agreement according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA, is a key step
toward having adequate FM system. The computerized FM system will be based on local FM software to
be selected from the several off-the shelf software applications available on the local market.
Reporting: The TS-SBC will prepare semi-annual project FMR and submit them un-audited to IDA
within 45 days from semester-end. The project's accounting system and chart of accounts will be set up
in a manner that facilitate automatic generation of the FMR, as well as project annual financial
statements. The contents and format of the project FMR were prepared and will be agreed during
negotiation Copy of the FMR exists in the PIM and project files. The proposed project includes
Technical Assistance to the project implementation team in MAI for capacity building, training, and
strengthening the ministry's financial management and procurement systems and staff, so that MAI will
be able to carry out financial management and procurement functions in the second and third Phases of
the APL.
Flow of Funds: For IDA funds, a Special Account in US Dollars will be established in the Central Bank
of Yemen (CBY) and managed solely by the TS-SBC. Replenislhment of IDA special account will be
made using traditional disbursement methods including direct payments and replenishment of the Special



13
PID
Account on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and full documentation, as required.
Government's share of the project cost will flow through local currency account at the CBY. Also, a
separate project account will be established at a commercial bank or the Cooperative Agricultural Credit
Bank for contributions received from project beneficiaries and WUAs (Demand Management
component), and disbursement from this account will be made by the TS-SBC to support project costs in
accordance with the project's internal control procedures. Payments to contractors and third parties from
the Special Account and government's share account will follow standard arrangements currently applied
to all IDA (and externally) financed projects. These procedures involve the Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Planning and Development, and CBY. Internal control procedures are stipulated in the financial
management manual.
Auditing: The project financial statements (balance sheet, special accounts, and cash flow statements)
will be subject to annual audit, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. The audit will cover all project's records and accounts, including audit of
the Special Account, the government's share local account, and the beneficiaries' and WUA
contributions deposit account. Also, the audit will cover all project expenditures with particular attention
to those expenditures made under the Statement of Expenditures procedures. The audit will be conducted
by qualified auditor acceptable to IDA selected under selection procedures applicable to selection of IDA
consultant (least cost method).
Procurement
The TS-SBC would be responsible for procurement of the entire project. The project would provide for
the required staffing, training and TA to the line ministry (MAI) so that eventually it will be capable to
carry out these activities autonomously (see above).
7. Sustainability
The principal issues of physical sustainability are The mining of the Tawilah sandstone, which has to
be brought within an economically rational framework by dedicating the aquifer to the highest value uses
(municipal use); and the mechanisms for sustainable management of other water sources, including the
alluvial and volcanic aquifers, springs and spate flows (agricultural use).
The key assumptions leading to institutional sustainability includEa) the likelihood of rising returns
through water use efficiency and an extended water availability; (b) the viability of the approach of
"ownership by stakeholders" of the program's water resources management strategy; and (c) the success
of arrangements for basin-wide planning and management.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
From the Taiz Water Supply and Sanitation Project
The small Taiz Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project (completed and closed) had a water resources
management component that addressed issues of stakeholder involvement in resource management and
water conservation. The implementation of the project was difficult. Project implementation progress
was finally up-graded to "satisfactory", while meeting Development Objectives was "unsatisfactory". The
project has been completed and the ICR has been finalized. Useful lessons for this project, include:
An up-front good understanding of the water resource, the shape of the aquifers and the relation
between them, and the relationships between surface and groundwater resources is helpful for



14
PID
identifying the "hydraulic goal" of the project - i.e. the concept of sustainability of an aquifer
and/or its 'acceptable' rate of depletion. But in Yemen, this is in most cases not well known.
*  A clear water resources management strategy is required to define how the hydraulic goal is to
be achieved, what the role of each actor is, and what is the package of rules and incentives which
are expected to bring about changes in water management behavior.
*  A stakeholder analysis should be carried out that: (i) identifies rights holders, the nature of their
rights and their interests; (ii) identifies other users and their rights, interests and relation to the
water rights holders; (iii) analyses the existing organizational and institutional structure,
including the rules and sanctions; and (iv) conducts a "sociopolitical" assessment of the dynamic
and the scope for change.
The enabling framework for decentralized managemenis crucial for the success of a project
This means (i) allowing local organizations to handle their own affairs; (ii) recognizing and
respecting traditional rights and the decisions of decentralized institutions; and (iii) providing
needed tools, rules, education, information, technology, incentives, a "court of appeal".
From the Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP)
The principal relevant lessons from LWCP are, first, that it is possible to reap substantial water savings
in irrigation by the introduction of piped conveyance and distribution systems, using buried PVC pipes.
About 550 ha of these systems have been installed in the Sana'a basin under LWCP. Localized irrigation
improvements such as drip and bubbler technologies, have also been piloted under LWCP. The results of
these pilots have been mixed but recent analysis suggests that in practice overall irrigation efficiency may
be increased by these means from the present 35% to about 60 %. A second lesson is that farmers are
interested in taking up the costs of these improvements, but generally only if a measure of subsidy (under
LWCP about 30-40%) is provided. The economic analysis shows positive benefits when water is valued
at opportunity cost (measured as the return to water in the highest value available use), but most farmers
do not pay the opportunity cost for water. Subsidies are therefore needed - as an interim measure,
combined with an intensive awareness campaign - to progressively persuade farmers to change their
pumping behavior. Although the incentive system has shown positive results in reducing pumping, a final
lesson is that there is no guarantee that water saved will not be reused by the same farmer or neighboring
farmers, to expand cultivation. There was no enforcement to stop irrigation expansion under the LWCP.
The proposed project would require contracts, to be enforced by community management institutions, to
ban irrigation expansion.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
Mitigation Plan:
The two cornerstones of the Mitigation Plan are regulation and enforcement. The enactment of the Water
Law and the NWRA Sana'a Branch, the main agency in monitoring and enforcing the Water Law, will
ensure that the provisions of the mitigation plan can be implemented.
Dam Safety and Down Stream Effects.The mitigation plan is to ensure that all dams and water
recharge structure remain safe and do not pose a threat to human life and property. Eleven dams in need
of urgent repair will be rehabilitated and three or four new dams will be constructed to best engineering
practice, supervised by the TS-SBC. A dams safety expert has assessed the dam sites and certified that



15
PID
the proposed work on new dams and on rehabilitating existing dams, conforms with safety standards and
will be beneficial for the population.
Public Healthl: Mitigation of any potential public health risks related to the project will be carried out by
the Ministry of Public Health and Population (MOPHP) as part of its Bilharzia control program. Regular
inspections of water bodies close to human habitations will take p!ace to detect and identify the breeding
of vectors, such as schistosomiasis/bilharzia which is prevalent in the Sana'a Basin. Any aquatic snail
colonies found will be eradicated through controlled spraying of molluscicides. Bilharzia statistics will
be monitored with close attention to the project intervention sub-basins for any unusual pattern.
Monitoring will be on a biannual basis as part of the ongoing effort by the existing clinics and health
facilities in the project area. A public health /bilharzia specialist will be available as a consultant, as part
of the environmental resource team in the TS-SBC, in charge of developing and overseeing both heath
education and control measures.
Land Acquisition: In the potential dam sites that were visited there was no indication that any
involuntary population resettlement would be required. It was also noted that in the majority of cases the
land that would be required was "common land" not used for productive purposes. The project will
follow GDI's pragmatic, demand based approach to the issue of land acquisition, i.e. after GDI receive a
request from a particular community to construct a dam, they respond by surveying the area and
producing a design which defines the land requirement and land ownership. This is discussed with the
community/ies and Local Councils. If they agree to go ahead, they sign a contract with GDI to provide
the land as a contribution to the costs, this contract or letter of agreement is then registered at the Civil
Registry Office. In the case of the project, a tripartite agreement would be signed between the Local
Councils, GDI and the TS-SBC. Land compensation issues, if any, are settled within the communities
themselves, through an internal process, by agreed compensation for individuals whose land will be built
over or inundated. In most cases, the community provides the land owner whose land is being inundated,
with land of equal value in an alternative location. To ensure that no uncompensated involuntary
resettlement or involuntary expropriation takes place, a draft Resettlement Policy Framework (dated July
29, 2002) has been agreed with the Bank and disclosed. Under this framework, a land acquisition plan
for every new dam site is made and cleared by the Bank, and an approved Resettlement Action Plan is
prepared and implemented for any new site that lacks full community consensus on land acquisition
measures for dam construction.
Waste Water Treatment, Waste Water Reuse and Sludge Reuse: The operations and functioning of the
WWTP will be modified and improved under Arab Fund financing. So as to ensure that the effluent does
not pose a public health risk nor pollute the aquifer, the government has agreed that the wastewater
treatment plant (WWTP) would be built to meet effluent and sludge quality standards according to the
Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook. Mitigation requires upgrading of the WWTP
including the construction of primary sedimentation tanks and a holding lagoon, in which to store excess
flows until it can be treated in the plant. The irrigation system will be improved by providing a balancing
lagoon and improved distribution system. In addition, a sludge drying and reuse system will be developed
for reuse as a soil conditioner. The chemical and biological quality of wastewater and sludge that is to be
reused will be regularly tested by the Sana'a Local Corporation to ensure that it does not pose a threat to
public health.
Pest Control and Pesticides Management:Pesticides and fertilizers are used freely and increasingly.
Even though there is no direct linkage between the rising use and the proposed project, the EIA proposes
a model PMP to be applied in the project areas for grapes, the second most prevalent crop (first is qat).
During the first half year of project implementation, a similar PMP would also be designed for qat. These



16
PID
two plans would cover about 70 percent of all crops planted in the basin. Other plans, notably for
vegetables, would also be designed. These plans are at once, a mitigation measure against harm that may
occur from excessive use of chemicals, a protection of public health and a learning instrument for DPP,
within MAI, who would be in charge of implementing it. DPP would gain experience with alternative
means to combat plant pests. If successful, these models could be replicated for other areas in the basin
and the country. The sample PMP for grapes is part of the EIA and will also be included in the PIM and
in the Project File.
Short Term Construction Risks: The short term environmental pollution risks associated with the
construction phase of the project will be mitigated through a number of measures, most of which will be
stipulated in the terms of contract with the building contractor. These will include for example control of
oil and diesel spillages, control of quarrying, dust suppression, and reporting of "chance finds" of
artifacts of archeological importance. Compliance with these measures will be the responsibility of the
TS-SBC who will supervise the works. Non- compliance will be penalized through invocation of penalty
clauses.
Public Consultation Mechanism: As an extension of the public disclosure principle and practice,
throughout the project implcmentation process, a point of contact will be maintained in the field to where
the public may refer to for information or lodge any grievance or concerns. The public consultation
mechanism, including through disclosure and information workshops, will be maintained by the TS-SBC
throughout the life of the project.
Institution Building & Capacity Building: As part of the environmental mitigation plan, a number of
institutional and capacity building initiatives are required and will be developed by the TS-SBC with the
concerned institutions and with the farmers in the project area. These include, building the capacity of
the NWRA Sana'a Branch; assisting the MAI Plant Protection Department in developing the pesticides
residue testing facilities; assisting the MOPHP Bilhazia Eradication Unit in developing methodology for
systematic monitoring and testing for the presence of vectors and designing appropriate control dosage
rates of insecticides and molluscicides; and strengthening the Environmental Protection Authority (EPA)
in its regulation and enforcement responsibilities.
Environmental Resource Team and Cliance Finds: An Environmental Specialist will be placed in the
TS-SBC to monitor and oversee the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. In addition,
an "on-call" Environmental Resource Team comprising a biodiversity specialist and a cultural heritage
specialist, will be established on a retainer basis who can be called upon from time to time in the event
that any "chance finds" of artifacts or rare species of flora or fauna are found. The team will be readily
available to make assessments regarding the significance of any findings of rare species or artifacts. In
the event of any significant finds they would then notify the relevant authorities and ensure that the
appropriate preservation measures are speedily undertaken with least disruption of the works.
Monitoring thte Expansion of Irrigated LandAn important aspect of the mitigation plan is the
monitoring of the area of irrigated land to detect any significant increase as a result of addition water
resources becoming available. In addition to a contractual agreement the farmers who are participating in
the irrigation modernization scheme will sign, it is the responsibility of MAI and NWRA Sana'a Branch,
assisted by the Local Councils and communities, to carry out regular field visits to control and monitor
irrigation expansion and changes in cropping patterns. This will be verified by annual satellite imagery or
aerial photography that may be compared with baseline data available from the satellite data recorded
during project preparation.



17
PID
Monitoring Water Quantity and Quality: A system will be developed for the selected four sub-basins to
monitor and record rainfall, wadi flow, groundwater level, and recharge volume by dams. In addition, the
project will provide funds for monitoring depletion/recharge data in areas outside the selected sub-basins,
notably the north-east and north-west extensions of the major well fields for Sana'a City. Data recording,
collection and analysis mechanisms will be established, emphasizing sustainable community
management. In particular, groundwater levels will be closely monitored to check pumping regulation
and recharge effects. Deep and shallow monitoring wells would also be drilled to better understand
hydro-geological and geological formations and aquifer balance. NWRA Sana'a Branch and its
designated community groups will assume primary responsibly for these activities. Other monitoring
measures are planned in the project, including use of pesticides to be monitored by MAI - PPD and the
quality of WWTP effluent and sludge to be monitored by Sana'a Local Corporation.
D. Other Recommendations
Urban Water Supply Demand Management:The project goes some way in addressing the water
resources management issues in the rural areas of the Sana'a Basin which has an indirect effect on urban
water supplies. It is recommended that a more pro-active approach is taken toward demand management
in the city of Sana'a. Although the per capita water use of about 50 liter per day is modest, there is a
mounting discontent of the rural/farming community which feels - wrongly or rightly - that the brunt of
water conservation is only hitting the farmers, while urban dwellers continue using unrestricted
resources. Many of these concerns go beyond the scope of the SBWM Project. The parallel urban water
and sanitation APL is addressing the issue by taking the, following measures: (i) urban demand
management through water pricing structure, leak detection and repair; (ii) long-term plans to deal with
the increasing flow of WW from the greater Sana'a area, and (iii) provisions for wastes from vacuum
tankers to be discharged at the Sana'a WWTP (as opposed to dumping it in wadis).
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Peter Koenig
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-5508
Fax: (202) 477-1981
E-mail: <pkoenig@worldbank.org>
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web. http 11 www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily



18
PID
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/17/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
| SEARCH  .      lEEOUK    =  Lsrr; MAP  _     So            11AS1



