ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorld Free of Povorty
AWoShop
Report No AC30
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/17/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                       Project ID: P064981
Project: RY: Sanaa Basin Water Management Project  Task Team Leader: Peter Koenig
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 6, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 3, 2003                       IDA Amount ($m): 24.00
Managing Unit: MNSRE                              Sector: Irrigation and drainage (40%); General water;
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  sanitation and flood protection sector (40%); Central
Status: Lending                                  government administration (20%)
Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural
services and infrastructure (S)
1.A.2. Project Objectives:
Out of about 110,000 ha of arable land, some 24,000 ha are irrigated. About 12,000 ha of these are in the
project area (Phase I of APL), of which about 4,000 ha would initially be targeted for improved
irrigation.
The objective is to increase both the quantity and the useful life of the available resources within the
Sana'a basin and to increase the efficiency of agricultural use and so allow time for a gradual shift to a
less water-based rural economy, by the following:
(i) Conserve water by introducing farmers to modern irrigation/improved equipment and methods
that may save up to 40% of water (demand management).
(ii) Change pumping and water use behavior in the basin through a comprehensive Information and
Public Awareness Campaign (IPAC) that would touch all segments of the basin population
(demand management).
(iii) Accelerate recharge, so as to save precipitation run-off from evaporation (supply management).
(iv) Obtain a better understanding of the basin's hydraulic situation, including through systematic
monitoring, leading to improved water management (Institutional development).
(v) Build a strong and sustainable institutional base for central and local water basin management,
including water regulation and enforcement, planning and water allocation, that may be
replicated in other basins (institutional development).
I.A.3. Project Description:



2
ISDS
Project activities would focus on 10 sub-basins (out of 22 in the entire Basin) in four representative Basin
zones: in the Western Area (southern Hamdan and Bani Matar districts); South Eastern Area (Bani
Bahloul, eastern part of Sanhan districts); Eastern Area (Bani Hushaish, northern Bani Al Harith, part of
Khawlen districts); and North Eastern Area (Nihm, and part of Arhab districts). Small dam rehabilitation,
according to priorities based on safety criteria, would be basin-wide. The areas were selected on the basis
of: (i) representativeness of the sub-basins; (ii) high chance of success in meeting project goals; and (iii)
favorable environmental impact on the selected sub-basins, i.e.:
-  scope for irrigation improvement and reduction in groundwater abstraction;
-  favorable socioeconomic conditions, tribal/ethnic homogeneity, communities willingness to
participate;
-  positive impact on the potential recharge; and
-  scope for supply structures (dams) development and improvement.
(a) Demand Management and Irrigation Improvement (Total cost US$11 .7 million)
This component seeks to achieve water savings and conservation in agriculture by increasing the
efficiency of water use for irrigation through introduction of modern irrigation technologies. The
component would focus on all or part of the 10 selected sub-basins. However, out of the total 12,500 ha
irrigated land of these sub-basins, the project would initially target about 4,000 ha. These areas have
proven the most suitable during stakeholder assessments in the course of project preparation. Activities
would include:
(i) Water conservation: Physical interventions under this component would be demand-driven with
an incentive system. It is expected to improve overall irrigation efficiencies in the target area
through: (a) upgrades of existing piped delivery systems; (b) conversions of open channel to
piped delivery systems; and (c) introduction of modern pressurized irrigation to fields already
served by satisfactorily piped delivery systems. Also included may be up to 300 ha of land
leveling, plastic tunnels/covers for technology demonstration purposes and wadi protection
works in vulnerable areas. To reduce the risk of irrigation expansion, pipes for conveyance
systems would, wherever possible, be PVC rather than steel, to make diversion of water to new
areas more difficult.
(ii) Community organization The project will be advertised in the selected sub-basins, and farmer
groups (usually around a well) interested in participating will register with the local council or
the Technical Secretariat of the Sana'a Basin Commission - TS-SBC. They will then be visited by
a social mobilization team (SMT - see Institutional Arrangements) to discuss obligations and
benefits of participation. The SMT will help with the creation of community-based water user
associations (WUAs). These WUAs, the most decentralized legally established institutional
entities, would be supported by the technical and managerial training and extension programs,
carried out by GDI through the SMTs.
(b) Supply Management and Recharge Improvement (Total cost US$10.2 million)
This component would enhance and accelerate groundwater recharge through mostly small conventional
dams, sub-surface dams and other structures. It is expected that farmers would then pump from shallow
aquifers instead of the deep aquifers which are a critical supply source of drinking water for urban and
rural domestic use. The project would: (i) build five recharge structures, including four dams (one of 1 8
m, one of 16 m and others of less than 10 m height) and a, series of low cascading check structures.
During implementation, other potentially viable recharge technologies, such as underground dams to



3
ISDS
catch sub-surface flows in wadis, spate breakers and water harvesting structures, would also be studied;
(ii) rehabilitate existing hill dams to prevent potential dam failure as well as to recover recharge capacity
diminished by accumulated sediments; and (iii) establish a sustainable dam management system through
strengthened capacity of GDI.



4
ISDS
New Dams to be Constructed
Reservoir
Name of Dam          District       Type of Dam        Height         Volume
m            1OOOm3
Shib Al Maadi             Nihem         Rockfill Dam         18.0            500
Bayt Shaiban              Nihem         Rockfill Dam         16.0             800
Al Melaah              Bani Hushaish     Rockfill Dam        8.0              130
Al Sinh                Bani Hushaish    Earthfill Dam        8.0              100
Bahman                    Nihem         Cascade Dams         3 0              100
Source: GDI and Joint Venture
Existing Dams to be Rehabilitated
Reservoir
Name of Dam       District    Type of Dam  Height    Volume     Year    Constructed by
m       1000m3     built
Al-Masham           Arhab        Earthfill    17.0      750       1988   Farmers + AFPPF
Eial Hussein       Nihem         Earthfill    16.0      450       1998       Farmers
Wadi Mahalli       Nihem          CFRD        12.0      395      1985       GDI/MAI
Beni Naji          Nihem         Earthfill    11.0      540      1999    Farmers + AFPPF
Al-Hayathem        Nihem         Earthfill    17.2      250       1996       Farmers
Arisha/Qatran      Nihem         Earthfill    13.0      980       1997       Farmers
Thoma              Nihem         Earthfill    18.0      130       1999      GDI/MAI
Al-Jae'f           Hamdan        Masonry      19.0      100      2000        AFPPF
Tozan              Hamdan         CFRD        25.0      246       1987      GDI/MAI
Beryan          Beni Husheish    Earthfill    25.0      750       1997   Farmers + AFPPF
Allujma          Beni Bahlul      CFRD        18.0      100       1997      GDI/MAI
(c) Institutional Development and Capacity Building (Total cost US$3.2 million)
(i) Regulatory Framework Development and Application Given the flaws of the Water Law, the
project would support and assist NWRA with the drafting and finalizing of bylaws, including for the
'protected zones', and regulations that might mitigate some of the shortcomings of the law.
Subsequently, regulatory systems and procedures for water rights management and administration,
including for registration and permits of well users and drillers, will be developed and applied. The
Sana'a Basin may become a demonstration model country.
(ii) Basin Water Management The new NWRA Sana'a Branch will assume responsibility for overall
basin-wide water resources investigation, regulation and monitoring. This will include, delegation to
user groups and monitoring of the regulatory system, overview and execution of water resource
research and monitoring programs in coordination with other responsible agencies and stakeholder
groups. It will also include supporting the evolution and operations of the SBC that will effectively
represent all water sector stakeholders in an equitable and sustainable development and use of the
basin's water resources. The project will support the NWRA Sana'a Branch and the SBC in the
development of capabilities in all of these areas, with training, technical assistance and equipment.



5
ISDS
(iii)Basin Hydro-geological and Water Resources Investigations and Monitorin or the project area,
systems will be developed, where possible through community management, to monitor and record
climate, rainfall, wadi flows and groundwater levels. Investigations and studies will include: (a)
analysis of project impacts through dam and other wadi structures on aquifer recharge and
groundwater levels (covering also rehabilitation dams outside the four sub-basin zones); (b)
exploratory deep boreholes; (c) physical surveys and laboratory testing for aquifer modeling to gain a
better understanding of the Basin's hydro-geological characteristics and groundwater balance
situation; (d) satellite imagery at three points in time during the course of the project to analyze and
quantify project impacts on cropping and irrigated areas; and (e) field level water balance
assessments at similar intervals, to determining the effects of irrigation system improvements on
water use. These programs will be coordinated between NWRA Sana'a Branch and relevant Ministry
of Agriculture and irrigation (MAI) departments. Support for equipment and TA will be provided
under the project. The investigations may need to be extended to areas outside of the basin to cover
potential additional water sources not previously studied, e.g. the aquifer under the sparsely
populated desert area of Ramlat Assaba'atain.
(d) Information and Public Awareness Campaign (Total cost US$1.2 million)
Despite past Government efforts at raising public awareness of the severe water scarcity in the Sana'a
Basin, the level of understandinig of the impending crisis among the public at large, including many
politicians and decision makers, is still weak. The Information and Public Awareness Campaign (IPAC)
would be carried out by the NWRA Sana'a Branch, through a specially staffed IPAC unit, in close
collaboration with the TS-SBC. The IPAC component would consist of an intense 4-year program to
convey nuanced messages of water conservation to well-targeted population segments. Specifically it
would address: (i) schools, both teachers and students; (ii) parliamentarians; (iii) journalists; (iv) small
and large farmers; (v) women (through health centers and hospitals), and men (through WUAs and Local
Council meetings); (vi) industrial users; and (vii) rural and urban domestic interests groups. The
campaign, designed as an initial four year program, would likely continue as an open-ended endeavor to
conserve the livelihood of the Basin. It would use a wide range of media, such as TV, radio, newspapers,
seminars, focus groups.
(e) Environmental Management Plan and Mitigation Program (Total cost US$0.7 million)
The proposed project is essentially aiming at improving the overall environmental situation of the Sana'a
Basin, notably through water resources conservation, pollution prevention and improving environmental
health conditions. Partly due to the construction of recharge dams (of which only two exceed the 15 m
statutory limit - one of 16 m, another one of 18 m), and partly because of the project's complexity and
social sensitivity (dealing with a scarce resource), the project has been ratedEasdiunmental
Categorv A operation, thereby triggering a full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) with an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Mitigation Program. Evaluations carried out under the EIA
concluded that other than Dam Safety (OP/BP 4.37), Involuntary Resettlement (and Land Acquisition) -
OP/BP 4.12 - and Pest Management (OP 4.09), none of the Safeguards were triggered. A dam safety
report has been prepared Its Executive Summary is part of the EIA. A model Pest Management Plan for
grapes - the most prevalent crop, other than qat, has also been prepared (also included in the EIA). Due to
the high prevalence of qat in the basin and its indiscriminate spraying with uncontrolled pesticides, the
project would also design a qat Pest Management Plan within 6 months of Project Effectiveness.
Although no involuntary resettlement is expected, an Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition
Framework has been prepared - Part of the EIA.



6
ISDS
(1) Project Management and Monitoring (total cost US$1.5 million)
(i) The long-term idea is to move towards basin water management, through the creation of a Sana'a
Basin Agency (SBA). As an initial step, the SBC was recently created by Prime Minister Decree. The
SBC is chaired by the Mayor of Sana'a City. Membership consists of a broad stakeholder
representation, including, the Office of the Governor of Sana'a, Ministry of Planning and
Development (MOPD), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Information, Ministry of Interior,
Ministry of Electricity and Water, MAI, NWRA, NWRA Sana'a Branch, Sana'a Local Corporation,
Agricultural Cooperative Union (ACU), representatives of WUAs, WUFs and LCs. The SBC may be
extended as warranted. The feasibility and modalities of an SBA, that may evolve from the SBC and
become a model for future basin agencies, would be studied during the early stages of project
implementation.
(ii) A Technical Secretariat of the Sana'a Basin Commission (TS-SBC) would be created (extension of
current Project Preparation Team unit) under the SBC. The tasks and responsibilities of the TS-SBC
would include, overall project coordination, monitoring (incl. EMP), project procurement and
financial management, institutional/capacity building/ training activities, including support to the
Ministry of Health's Bilharzia mitigation program, and as needed to implement the EMP. In addition,
the TS-SBC would be responsible for the preparation of Phase 11 of the SBWM APL.
(iii)The Demand and Supply Management components would be implemented by the line ministry,
MAI/GDI, through an expanded existing Project Implementation Unit from the Land and Water
Conservation Project (LWCP) that has been fully integrated into the ministry. Tasks/responsibilities
would include design, implementation, SMTs, monitoring, capacity building/training, including to
Department of Plant Protection (DPP) and MAI/GDI, coordination with SSARDA and Agricultural
and Fisheries Promotion Fund (AFPF), which carry out, or finance, similar activities. A financial
management system (FMS), compatible with the project FMS in the TS-SBC, would be set up and
assisted with training to build an independent, transparent FMS in MAI. Training would also be
provided for procurement management.
(iv) The NWRA Sana'a Branch would receive TA for capacity building and training to fulfill its role as a
basin manager (water resources use and recharge monitoring/planning, water quality control) and
implementer of the Water Law. In addition, the IPAC component would be implemented through a
special unit within the NWRA Sana'a Branch and funded under the project.
(g) Phase II Project Preparation (total cost US$1.5 million)
On the basis of achievements of Phase I of the SBWM APL, and subject to the findings of the project
mid-term review and/or other assessments, a Phase II project would be prepared during the second half of
the project period.



7
ISDS
Project estimates are summarized below:
Components:                                                  US$/M
1. Demand Management and Irrigation Improvement              11.7
2. Supply Management and Recharge Improvement                10.2
3. Institutional Development and Capacity Building            3.2
4. Information and Public Awareness Campaign                  1.2
5. Environmental Management and Mitigation Program            0.7
6. Project Management and Monitoring                          1.5
7. Phase II Project Preparation                               1.5
Total Project Costs                                          30.0
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Sana'a Basin is a hydro-geologically self-contained highland plateau (about 2,200 m above sea level),
surrounded by mountains. It encompasses an area of about 3,200 km2. Precipitation is on average between
200 mm and 300 mm per year. The climate is dry with an average humidity of 20% to 30%, hence, a high
evaporation rate. With aquifer over-pumping annually by more than 100%, limited recharge and high
evaporation, water is clearly the basins most environmentally vulnerable resource.
Project (Phase I of the APL) activitiu&uld be carried outn four representative sub-basin
zones: in the basin's Western Area (southern Hamdan and Bani Matar districts); South Eastern
Area (Bani Bahloul, eastern part of Sanhan districts); Easter Area (Bani Hushaish, northern Bani
Al Harith, part of Khawlen districts); and North Eastern Area (Nihm, and part of Arhab districts).
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments: This project is an environmental improvement operation. It has been classified as an
environment Category 'A' intervention, because of expected construction of two small dams (recharge
structures) that exceed 15 meters of height (16 m and 18 m). It triggers four safeguard policies, thereby
requiring a full EIA (OP 4.01) and an EMP. It also deals with a socially highly volatile commodity in this
dry country - water. Water has often been the cause for tribal conflicts and has caused casualties.



8
ISDS
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The two cornerstones of the EMP are regulation and enforcement. The enactment of the Water Law and
the establishment of a NWRA Sana'a Branch, and the TS-SBC, the two main agency in monitoring and
enforcing the Water Law and its regulations, will ensure that the provisions of the mitigation plan can be
implemented.
Dam Safety
(i) The rehabilitation of existing dams proposed for this project is a mitigation measure to address safety
hazards. Out of 44 dams in the basin, 24 were assessed as needing rehabilitation. Out of these, 1 dams
throughout the basin may pose a serious safety risk for downstream populations and require immediate
work. They were included in the proposed project.
(ii) Out of the nine sites fornew dams identified, the project team selected five recharge structures, two
of which exceed 15 meters, two smaller dams and a cascading series of check structures. In addition,
other smaller surface retention, or sub-surface structures will be tested during project implementation.
The selection of the dam sites was based on a rapid social assessment which determined the level of
community demand, or willingness to participate. Observing the demand-responsiveness principle, only
sites with the highest favorable rating were selected.
A dam safety expert visited all sites and preliminarily concluded that the sites and foreseen work would
not pose any safety risk. However, he will also review feasibility studies and final designs and bidding
documents. In addition, nonstructural safety measures were recommended and would be taken by the
design engineers, such as installation of instrumentation and monitoring devices, operation and
maintenance plans, including emergency preparedness plans, and establishment of a panel of three
national experts, who would supervise final designs and safety measures. To avoid any landscape
disfiguration, construction contract documents would stipulate that stone and gravel would only be
provided by official quarries.



9
ISDS
Land Acquisition
No involuntary population resettlement is anticipated in the identified dam sites. In the majority of cases,
the land to be flooded would be "common land", not used for productive purposes and owned by the
community. Nevertheless, there may be cases when individually owned land may be inundated, in which
case GDI' s pragmatic, demand-based approach for voluntary 'land acquisition' would apply. However,
in order to cover the possibility that there might be some involuntary expropriation, the Bank Policy on
Involuntary Resettlement has been triggered.
Pest Management
Pesticides and fertilizers are used freely and increasingly. Even though there is no direct linkage between
the rising use and the proposed project, the EIA proposes a model Pest Management Plan, to be applied
in the project areas for grapes, the second most prevalent crop (first is qat). The plan is at once, a
mitigation measure against harm that may occur from excessive use of chemicals, and a learning
instrument for the DPP, who would be in charge of implementing it, to gain experience with alternative
means to combat plant pests. During the first six months of project implementation, a Pest Management
Plan for qat would also be designed, It would help reduce the health risks from chewing qat that has been
sprayed with widely uncontrolled pesticides. If successful, these models could be replicated for other
areas in the basin and the country, as well as for other crops.
Other Potential Risks
(i) Public health Although the Ministry of Health has registered cases of malaria and bilharziasis
(schistosomiasis) in the Sana'a Basin, malaria is ruled out as originating in the Sana'a Basin (the vector
does not survive above 2,000 m elevation). As reported by the Ministry of Health, malaria is sometimes
imported from the lowlands by trucks and fruit supplies. However, bilharzia is prevalent in the basin. The
project would assist the Ministry of Health with a Bilharzia monitoring plan and would closely monitor
the Bilharzia occurrence in the project area.
(ii) Shallow aquifer water quality:
A survey of water quality carried out in 1995/1996 by SAWAS sampled water in 77 hand dug wells
between 20 to I 00 meters deep and 248 boreholes between 100 and 400 meters deep in the Sana'a Basin.
Tests indicate that generally the water quality is suitable for irrigation. As would be expected, the quality
of the water in the shallow wells was poorer than the deeper, boreholes. Biological testing and tests for
pesticides residuals were not carried out, however in a number of boreholes and in particular in shallow
wells the levels of Chlorides (CI), Sulfates (S04) and Nitrogen Trioxides (NO3) exceed the WHO
standards for drinkinig water. (Recommended limits for Cl are 250mg/I, for S04 are 250mg/I and for N03
50mg/I.) 35% of shallow wells exceeded the limits for Chlorides whereas all of the boreholes were below
the limit.
Additional water quality tests of samples of shallow wells in the project area were undertaken during the
project preparation. The presence of low levels of coliform bacteria found in the samples (9 - 16 per 1 00
ml) indicate a degree of pollution that is not unusual in open wells in an agricultural area, where
pollution is common from surface sources of animal and human wastes. Although, the quality of water
for drinking is questionable without disinfection, it is highly. improbable that any transfer of biological
pollution to the lower aquifer could take place. This is confirmed by recent isotope tracing that indicates
that the recharge rate of the lower fossil aquifer takes several decades during which pathogens could not
survive.
(iii) Wastewater and sludge:
As pointed out, the intermittently treated effluent of the Sana'a WWTP poses a serious health and aquifer
pollution risk. It is inconceivable that on the one hand the proposed project would be conserving water



10
ISDS
through modern irrigation and aquifer recharge, while the WWTP risks to pollute the groundwater stock.
Thus, the improvement of the WWTP must be a priority in order for the proposed project to go ahead. It
was agreed with the GOY that improvements would be made both in the treatment of WW, so that it may
be reused for restricted irrigation without pollution and health risk, and in sludge, so that dried sludge
may be reused as soil conditioner without the hazard of surviving pathogens. The GOY will finance the
final engineering design study and has secured funding from the Arab Fund for the necessary
improvement works of the WWTP.
The TORs for the final engineering study of the WWTP improvement were approved by the IDA and
agreements were reached during negotiations that the following effluent and sludge quality standards will
be met:
(a) Microbiological quality standards in accordance with the World Bank's Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook, namely for restricted and unrestricted irrigation:
-   less than one viable intestinal nematode egg per liter (on an arithmetic means basis) - i.e. zero (0)
-  for restricted and unrestricted irrigation; and
-   less than four hundred (400) faecal coliform bacteria per hundred (100) milliliters (on a
geometric means basis) for restricted and unrestricted irrigation.
Unrestricted irrigation refers to irrigation of trees, fodder and industrial crops, fruit trees and pasture; and
restricted irrigation refers to irrigation of edible crops, sports fields and public parks.
(b) The chemical parameters to be met in accordance with the World Bank's Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Guidelines for "Limits for Processed Wastewater, Domestic Sewage and Contaminated Storm
Waters" are as follows:



1 1
ISDS
Parameter                 Symbol/Unit                  Guideline
Salinity
- Electrical Conductivity        ECw mmhos/em                   0.7 - 3.0
- Suspended Solids                  SS /mg /I                 30 - 40 mg/l
Other
- Biochemical oxygen demand          BOD5                     30 - 50 mg/I
- Chemical oxygen demand              COD                     150 - 200 mg/I
- Acidity                              PH                        7 - 9
- Oil & grease                                                  10 mg/I
- Sodium                            Na meq/l                 3 - 9 (>3)* mg/l
- Chloride                           Cl meq/l                4 -10 (>3)* mg/I
- Boron                              B mg/l                   0.7 - 3 mg/I
- Ammonia                                                       10 mg/I
- Cyanide, total                                                1.0 mg/l
- Fluoride                                                      20 mg/l
- Chlorine, total residual                                      0.2 mg/I
- Phosphorus                                                    2.0 mg/I
- Sulfide                                                       1.0 mg/I
- Heavy metals total                                            10 mg/I
Metals specific:
-Cadmium                                                      0.1 mg/l
- Chromium                                                    0.5 mg/I
- Iron                                                        3.5 mg/I
- Lead                                                         0.1 mg/I
- Zinc                                                        2.0 mg/I
* For sprinkler irrigation.
Samples are to be tested by an independent laboratory, as follows:
- Standards for effluent are to be monitored every three days;
- Standards for sludge are to be monitored once per month.
The independent laboratory would submit a monitoring report to IDA, starting with commissioniig of the
improved WWTP and every six months thereafter. If these standards are not met (tolerance margin of 10
percent) during a consecutive period of three months, the GOY would benin-compliance with the
required quality parameters which would be linked to Conditions of Disbursements.
More details on the status of the WWTP are included in thEIA Executive Summary The full EIA will
also be accessible on the web after appraisal.
II.D. 1 b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
1. If recharge to shallow aquifers works, abstraction from the deep " Tawilah" sandstone aquifer will be
reduced, hence the high quality water may be preserved for domestic use.
2. If demand management - reduced pumping due to incentive-driven introduction of modern irrigation and
no expansion of irrigation areas is successful, water abstraction may be limited to the shallow aquifers,



12
ISDS
thereby conserving the deep sandstone aquifer.
II.D.I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The overall long-term impact of this program is definitely positive. The program, although not
guaranteeing to find a long-term solution for the Sana'a Basins water resource issues, is clearly an
endeavor to alleviate a major environmental debacle - the imminent exhaustion of the Sana'a basin
aquifers.
This first phase of the APL may be considered a 'pilot'. Different technologies and institutional
approaches, notably at the user level, will be tested and experiences recorded. If target benchmarks will
be met, phases 2 and 3 of the APL will be triggered, spreading the lessons and benefits of the first phase
throughout the basin.
Tl.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The "Do Nothing" option is not an option. The situation in the Sana'a Basin is deteriorating at such a
rapid rate that a number of measures must be taken or else the region will cease to develop due to lack of
water for both domestic and agricultural purposes. The possibility of importing water from outside the
basin was considered, however the costs for transfer and pumping are for most scenarios unrealistically
high (SAWAS study, cost estimates ranging from US$1/m3 to more than US$8/m3 - desalination from
Red Sea and transport to Sana'a). But more importantly, in this water scarce environment, taking water
away from other users, would constitute a considerable risk for social unrest. The major issue for the
project is to achieve the best balance of technological, institutional and social interventions that will
decelerate the decline of the water resource and yet maintain equity between urban and rural demands.
The dilemma for the project is to establish the balance of investments between dam or recharge structures
construction and irrigation improvements.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
GDI traditionally responds to a community demand by a survey of the area, identifying the land that
would be flooded. The communities and responsible Local Councils internally discuss and agree on a
compensation (in most cases a substitute land area) and sign a tripartite contract (community, LC, GDI)
that no compensation from government is required. The land contribution constitutes the community's
share towards the construction of the dam and the benefits derived from it. If no agreement is reached, no
dam is built. This policy has been in force since 1994 and has so far never led to a dispute. These
arrangements and the documentation provided are detailed and disclosed in a draft Resettlement Policy
Framework approved by the IDA. The Borrower has prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
acceptable to IDA and disclosed it locally and through the InfoShop. When a dam site is identified, the
Borrower submits to IDA a Land Acquisition Plan identifying the site and its key characteristics,
including ownership, evidence of consultations and informed community agreement, and expected
adverse socio-economic impacts, if any. IDA advises the Borrower whether Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) is required for that site, and further action must be taken to ensure and demonstrate full
community consensus, or whether approval is then dependent on IDA's approval of the RAP.



13
ISDS
TI.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders are (i) government agencies - NWRA, and NWRA Sana'a Branch, National Water and
Sanitation Authority (NWSA), Sana'a Local Corporation (for Sana' a City water supply and sanitation),
MAI/GDI, MEW, Agricultural Cooperative Union (ACU), NGOs, and (ii) local level - WUGs, WUAs,
WUFs, Local Councils and other user organizations.
In accordance with the Bank's public consultation and disclosure policy, as set out in BP 17.50,
stakeholders and other interested parties were given the opportunity to participate in the project design
process. A one day "scoping" workshop was held to launch a process of consultation and public
disclosure, in addition, four stakeholder meetings were held hosted by NWRA. They were attended by
representatives of the communities in the identified pilot areas. Public consultation meetings will
continue throughout project implementation. In addition, an intense, multi-media Information and Public
Awareness Campaign (IPAC) will be launched, addressing all segments of the population - policy and
decision makers, parliamentarians, schools (students and teachers), farmers, domestic and industrial
water users - with water conservation messages, calibrated according to their audience.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[X] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



14
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          ExIe ced       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 3/13/2002     12/25/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/28/2003     3/10/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/28/2003     3/7/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  1/28/2003     3/5/2003
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               12/25/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/28/2003     3/10/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/28/2003     3/7/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 3/13/2002     12/25/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/28/2003     3/10/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/28/2003     3/7/2003
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 5/20/2002     12/25/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/28/2003     3/10/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/28/2003     3/7/2003
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. An up-dated
version of all reports is expected to be disclosed in-country simultaneously with InfoShop.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Peter Koenig                                04/10/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Kanthan Shankar                        04/11/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  John Keith Rennie                      04/10/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                     04/13/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      M. Salah Darghouth                          04/15/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LS_ER t____     FEDERACK     s_E mi,         LSHOWCA5E riZ



