Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3774-YEM 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT 
AGREEMENT 
 
(Sana’a Basin Water Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 26, 2003 
 
Page  2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3774-YEM 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
September 16, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement the Borrower’s long-term water resources management policies and plans (the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association’s support in the execution of 
the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately fifteen (15) years 
to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase 
of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
Page  4
-
2
-
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means individuals who, as a result of the 
implementation of the Project, have had, or shall have, their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land), or right in annual or perennial crops and trees, or any other 
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to 
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; and (iv) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; each, an “Affected 
Person;” 
 
(b) 
“Cretaceous Tawilah” means sandstone aquifer or “Tawilah” aquifer; 
 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
plan, dated December 17, 2002
,
as such plan may be updated from time to time by 
agreement of the Borrower and the Association, for implementation of the Project in 
accordance with certain institutional, mitigating and monitoring measures to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels, including compliance with the 
standards of the treated effluent and sludge of the Sana’a WWTP (as this term is hereinafter 
defined); 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on 
January 1 and ending on December 31 of the same year; 
 
(f) 
“GDI” means the General Directorate for Irrigation within MAI (as this 
term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(g) 
“IPAC Unit” means the Information and Public Awareness Campaign Unit 
referred to in paragraph 3(c) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“MAI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation or 
any successor thereof; 
 
(i) 
“Mid-term Review” means the mid-term review referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Part D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(j) 
“MOPHP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health and 
Population or any successor thereof; 
 
(k) 
“NWRA” means the National Water Resources Authority, established 
and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 154 of 1995, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
 
(l) 
“NWRA Sana’a Branch” means the NWRA Sana’a Branch established 
and operating by virtue of the Borrower’s Cabinet Decree No. 58 of 2003, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Part A of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
 
(m) 
“NWSA” means the National Water and Sanitation Authority, 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 13 of 1973, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
 
(n) 
“Project Area” means the ten (10) sub-basins in four (4) representative 
Basin zones of the Borrower’s territories, and shall consist of: (i) Western Area (Southern 
Hamdan and North of Bani Matar districts); (ii) South Eastern Area (Bani Bahloul, 
Eastern part of Sanhan districts); (iii) Eastern Area (Bani Hushaish, northern Bani Al 
Harith, part of Khawlan districts); and (iv) North Eastern Area (part of Nihm, and part of 
Arhab districts); 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Project 
Implementation Manual, dated December 17, 2002, as such manual may be updated from 
time to time by agreement of the Borrower and the Association, and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Project Year” means the twelve (12) month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve (12) months thereafter and each successive twelve (12) 
month period following thereafter; 
 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
policy framework for carrying out the Project, satisfactory to the Association, dated 
July 29, 2002, as such framework may be amended from time to time by agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association, which sets out, 
inter alia
,
the principles and objectives of 
the Resettlement Policy Framework, the institutional and implementation arrangements, 
the requirements of a resettlement action plan including, the eligibility criteria for 
assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as well as the monitoring and reporting 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; 
 
(r) 
“Sana’a Basin” or “Basin” means the Sana’a Basin in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
 
(s) 
“Sana’a Basin Commission” or “SBC” means the Sana’a Basin 
Page  6
-
4
-
Commission established and operating in accordance with Decree No. 263, dated 
September 10, 2002, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(t) 
“Sana’a Local Corporation for Water Supply and Sanitation” means the 
corporation established  and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s Presidential 
Decree No. 53 of 2000, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(u) 
“Sana’a WWTP” means the Sana’a City Waste Water Treatment Plant, 
located at the northern outskirts of Sana’a City and serving Sana’a City; 
 
(v) 
“Social Mobilization Team” or “SMT” means the social mobilization team 
referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“TS-SBC” means the technical secretariat of the SBC referred to in 
paragraph 3(b) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(y) 
“Water Law” means the water law No. 33 enacted by the Borrower’s 
legislature, dated August 31, 2002 including its regulations, as the same may be amended 
from time to time; 
 
(z) 
“WUAs” means the Water User Associations to be established under the 
Water Law; each, individually, called “a WUA”; and  
 
(aa) 
“WUFs” means the Water User Federations referred to in paragraph 4(b) 
of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventeen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 17,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
Page  7
-
5
-
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2013, and ending 
 
March 15, 2043. Each installment to and including the installment payable on  
March 15, 2023, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) Wh
enever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
Page  8
-
6
-
developm
ent of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, engineering and environmental standards and 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial and Other Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable 
to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations related to the Project. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and a report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Associ
ation’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
Page  11
-
9
-
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such 
calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The quality of the effluent and sludge produced by the Sana’a WWTP is 
not in compliance with the specifications agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association and set forth in the EMP, for a consecutive period of three (3) months for 
effluent and sludge. 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the financial management system referred to under Article IV of this 
Agreement has been established; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
 
P.O. Box 175 
 
Sana
’a 
 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
CENPLAN  
 
2266 
 
Sana’a 
   CENPLAN 
YE 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
 Regional 
Vice 
President 
 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
 
to be Financed
(1) Works: 
 
(a)  under Part B of the 
Project 
 
(b) under other Parts 
of the Project 
 
(2) Goods: 
 
(a)  under Part B of the 
Project 
 
(b) under other Parts 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
audit and surveys: 
 
(a)  for design and 
supervision under  
 
4,390,000 
 
880,000 
 
90,000 
 
3,640,000 
 
810,000 
 
85% 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of 
local expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally 
 
100% for international 
consultant firms and 
international individual 
consultants, 85% for 
local consultant firms 
and local individual 
consultants 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
 
to be Financed
Parts A and B of 
the Project 
 
(b) for preparation for 
follow-on projects 
under Part G of the 
Project 
 
(c) under other Parts 
of the Project 
 
(4) Training and 
workshops 
 
(5) Incremental Operating 
Costs 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
TOTAL 
 
1,030,000 
 
4,680,000 
 
880,000 
 
150,000 
 
1,050,000 
 ____________ 
17,600,000 
========= 
 
100% 
 
80% until December 31, 
2004; 60% until 
December 31, 2005; 40% 
until December 31, 2006; 
20% until December 31, 
2007; and 0% thereafter 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and 
office supplies. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a) and (2)(a), 
unless and until the Borrower shall have submitted to the Association evidence, 
satisfactory to the Association, that the quality of the effluent and sludge produced by the 
Sana’a WWTP has met the specifications agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, as set forth in the EMP, one (1) month as at the commissioning of the 
improved Sana’a WWTP. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms; (d) services under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (e) training and workshops; and 
(f) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) increasing the 
efficiency of agricultural water use 
within the Sana’a Basin; and (ii) accelerating aquifer 
recharge to allow for a gradual shift to a less water-based rural economy. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Demand Management and Irrigation Improvement
Carrying out a program for  achieving water savings and conservation in the 
Project Area, through: 
 
1. 
The improvement of conveyance and other distribution systems through the 
upgrading of piped irrigation delivery systems, including: (a) the preparation of detailed 
studies, design and supervision of system upgrades; and (b) the supply and installation of 
pipes and accessories, as well as the operation and maintenance thereof. 
 
2. 
The conversion of open channel to piped irrigation delivery systems, including: 
(a) the preparation of detailed studies; design and supervision of system conversions; and 
(b) the supply and installation of pipeline systems and accessories, as well as the 
operation and maintenance thereof. 
 
3. 
The introduction of modern on-farm pressurized irrigation systems, including: (a) 
the preparation of detailed studies, designs and supervision of system installations; (b) the 
provision of elevated reservoirs; (c) the supply and installation of booster pumps and 
fertilizer injectors; and (d) the supply and installation of on-farm and field system 
networks, including conveyance pipelines, mains, sub-mains, laterals and emitters, as 
well as the operation and maintenance thereof. 
 
4. 
The carrying out of farm-level irrigation protection works and improvement 
measures, including: (a) Wadi bank protection works; (b) topographic and other studies; 
(c) field designs and land leveling operations; (d) construction, operation and 
maintenance of small-scale gabion and other protection works; and (e) the introduction, 
supply and installation of plastic tunnels and/or cover systems, as well as the operation 
and maintenance thereof. 
 
5. 
The carrying out of a program of institutional development for community 
management, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems, including: (a) initial social 
mobilization programs at village and farmer group levels; (b) assisting water users to 
assume responsibilities for sustainable systems development, management, operation and 
maintenance; (c) facilitating the formalization of well water user groups and the 
Page  18
-
16
-
establishment of village-level water user associations (WUAs) and WUFs; and (d) the 
provision of community water management training, support and adequate extension 
programs. 
 
6. 
Capacity building for irrigation systems development and extension, including: 
(a) strengthening the capability of MAI to assist and support water users
’
participation in 
irrigation system development and demand management activities in the Project Area; 
and (b) the provision of training for selected staff of MAI. 
 
7. 
The provision of implementation support, including: (a) the tendering of physical 
works and equipment required under Part A of the Project; and (b) the utilization of the 
services of suitably qualified and experienced consultants to assist in the carrying out of 
studies, design, tendering and construction supervision. 
 
Part B
:
Supply Management and Recharge Improvement
The enhancement of groundwater recharge through improved and new recharge 
schemes enabling water for irrigation to be pumped from shallow aquifers instead of deep 
aquifers that need to be reserved as sources of drinking water through: 
 
1. 
The rehabilitation of eleven (11) existing recharge dams to prevent potential dam 
failure as well as to recover recharge capacity diminished by accumulated sediments, 
including: (a) the preparation of final studies and designs of dams; (b) dam works 
supervision, operation and maintenance; (c) the carrying out of repair and improvement 
works to the body and foundation of the said dams to enhance safety and operation; 
(d) reservoir area de-silting for enhanced recharge; and (e) the construction and 
upgrading of access roads. 
 
2. 
Construction of five (5) new recharge structures within the Project Area, 
including: (a) four (4) selected new dams, namely, the Bayt Shaiban, the Shi’b Al-
Ma’adi, the Al-Melaah and the Al-Sinn dams; and (b) a series of cascade structures in 
Wadi Bahman, through: (i) the preparation of final studies and designs; (ii) dam works 
supervision, operation and maintenance; (iii) reservoir area clearing; and (iv) access road 
construction. 
 
3. 
The carrying out of studies and works for other recharge systems such as spate 
breakers, water harvesting/conservation structures and subsurface dams, as alternatives 
for retaining subsurface flows in wadis, or surface water retention. 
 
4. 
Institutional development for community management, operation and 
maintenance of dam and recharge systems, including: (a) facilitating the formalization of 
existing or establishment of new community dam management organizations for existing 
and new dams; (b) provision of relevant community training programs; and (c) instituting 
arrangements for related operation and maintenance support and extension. 
5. 
Capacity building for dam and recharge systems development, operation and 
maintenance and extension support, including: (a) the provision of training for staff of 
Page  19
-
17
-
GDI and other agencies involved in dam construction and dam operation and maintenance 
functions in the Project Area; and (b) training visits to comparable development within the 
country with similar community dam organizations and operation and maintenance 
programs. 
 
6. 
The provision of implementation support, including: (a) the tendering of physical 
works and equipment required under Part B of the Project; and (b) the utilization of the 
services of suitably qualified and experienced local or international consultants to assist 
in the carrying out of studies, design and construction supervision. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1. 
Carrying out a program of institutional and capacity building developed by  
TS-SBC, including: (a) the development of suitable water sector, legal, regulatory and 
monitoring frameworks and processes for NWRA; (b) basin water resources planning, 
monitoring and regulation capacity building for the NWRA
 Sana’a Branch; 
(c) institutional development for the Basin-level SBC and for stakeholder water 
management including WUAs and sub-catchment WUFs; (d) assisting MAI in carrying 
out Part E.4 of the Project; and (e) assisting MOPHP in carrying out Part E.2 of the 
Project. 
 
2. 
Developing specific hydrological water resources, monitoring and investigation 
studies and capabilities for the NWRA Sana’a Branch and MAI, through: 
 
(a) 
the carrying out of comprehensive investigations aimed at quantifying 
the storage volume of the Cretaceous “Tawilah” Sandstone, targeting the irrigation areas 
surrounding North West and North East NWSA well-fields, including the following: 
(i) the production of maps and cross-sections to delineate the total amount of historical 
aquifer depletion in both the Quaternary Alluvial and Cretaceous Sandstone aquifers; 
(ii) the qualitative geological assessment of the water storage and transmission properties 
of the Quaternary Alluvial and the Cretaceous “Tawilah” Sandstone; (iii) the drilling of 
three (3) new exploratory boreholes for core sampling, appropriate geophysical logging, 
groundwater sampling, and effective observations of aquifer behavior; and (iv) laboratory 
testing of rock drill cores and field samples; 
 
(b) 
carrying out an intensive hydrological monitoring and analysis program 
at three (3) levels, namely: (i) sub-basin level for monitoring and analyzing the impacts 
of recharge enhancement structures as well as deriving sub-basin level water balances; 
(ii) field-level for monitoring and analysis of beneficial and non-beneficial evapo-
transpiration, return flow, percolation and evaporation, to estimate field water balances 
and net-water savings; and (iii) basin level monitoring and assessing the water balance of 
the entire Project Area; 
 
(c) 
conducting advanced remote sensing/satellite image and/or aerial 
photography analyses along with extended ground truthing surveys to capture crop 
pattern and evapo-transpiration changes over time; and 
Page  20
-
18
-
(d) 
the establishment and application of a reliable groundwater model to 
simulate aquifer performance under likely abstraction scenarios, based on updated well 
inventory data and newly established hydro-geological parameters. 
 
3. 
Carrying out a program for the purposes of monitoring the expansion of irrigated 
land, including conducting advanced remote sensing/satellite image and/or aerial 
photography analyses, and extended field visits. 
 
4. 
Carrying out a program for the purposes of monitoring water quantity, quality 
and pollution for measuring rainfall, stream flow and reservoir levels, through the 
provision of goods and training. 
 
Part D
:
Information and Public Awareness Campaign (IPAC)
Carrying out an intense four-year information and public awareness campaign, 
employing TV, radio, newspapers, seminars, focus groups and other media, to convey 
messages of water conservation to well-targeted population segments such as schools, 
parliamentarians, journalists, farmers, women and men in health centers, hospitals, 
WUAs and local councils, industrial users, and rural and urban domestic interest groups. 
 
Part E
:
Environmental Management and Mitigation Program
Carrying out a program of environmental management and mitigation in the 
Project Area including: 
 
1. 
Conducting regular inspections of the dam structures, identified in Part B of the 
Project, to monitor timely repairs and rectification of faults, if any. 
 
2. 
Carrying out public health programs, including inspection of water bodies close 
to human populations for detecting and controlling bilharzias vector, including controlled 
spraying of insecticides and molluscicides. 
 
3. 
Carrying out economic, technical, health and social feasibility studies for safe 
reuse of Sana’a WWTP effluent for irrigation and for the dried sludge as a soil 
conditioner. 
 
4. 
Carrying out a pest control program, including: (a) the development and 
implementation of an integrated pest management plan (IPM), starting with grapes and 
followed within three (3) months of the Effective Date with an IPM for qat; (b) provision 
of training to farmers, including extension agents and dealers for the purposes of stressing 
good and safe practice for pesticides application and storage; and (c) provision of goods 
and training to pesticides laboratory, for the purposes of regular testing for pesticides 
residue. 
 
Part F
:
Project Management and Monitoring
Page  21
-
19
-
Providing support to the TS-SBC for carrying out its management and 
monitoring responsibilities under the Project, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
 
Part G
:
Follow-on Project Preparation
Providing support for the preparation of studies, engineering designs and tendering 
for follow-on projects through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more per 
contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. The Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works/Small 
Contracts shall be used. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. The Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods shall be 
used. 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Small 
Works
Small works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the updated procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  24
-
22
-
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and each contract for works 
to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 under Part B 
of this Section; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 1 
under Part C of this Section; and (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in paragraph 1 under Part C of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000 or more to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
paragraph 2 under Part C of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the provisions of the following Parts of 
Section II of this Schedule. 
Page  25
-
23
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consult
ants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts E.2 and E.4(c) of the Project, which are estimated to cost 
less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  26
-
24
-
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to t
he
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) the first three (3) contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in paragraph 1 under Part B of this Section; and (iii) the first three (3) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 under Part C of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract, the report on 
the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval; and (ii) each contract for services to be selected on a single source 
basis, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part D.2 (a) and (b) of this Section, 
prior review and approval by the Association of terms of reference shall be required to 
award contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Part A
:
Project Implementation
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual (PIM) and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project 
or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
SBC shall have overall responsibility for basin planning, Project oversight and 
coordination and under the Project, shall be chaired by the Mayor of 
Sana’a City, and 
shall include: (a) high level representatives of the Sana’a Governorate, the Ministry of 
Planning and International Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
Information, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Water and Environment, MAI, 
NWRA, NWRA Sana’a Branch, Sana’a Local Corporation for Water Supply and 
Sanitation, and Agricultural Cooperative Union; (b) representatives of WUAs or WUFs; 
and (c) representatives of Local Councils and such other stakeholder organizations as the 
Borrower and the Association shall determine. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain a branch office of NWRA in Sana’a City (the NWRA Sana’a 
Branch), whose functions shall include implementing and enforcing water use related 
policies, based on the Water Law including its regulations; 
 
(b) 
no later than January 1, 2004, establish and thereafter maintain within the 
SBC, a technical secretariat (TS-SBC) in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. The functions of the TS-SBC shall include:  
(i) overall Project  coordination and monitoring; (ii) serving as the technical secretariat of 
the Sana’a Basin Commission; (iii) Project budgeting, accounting, financial management, 
procurement and disbursement arrangements; (iv) providing technical support, training 
and training coordination; and (v) management and implementation of the EMP.  The 
staff of TS-SBC shall include: (A) a TS-SBC director, expert in water resources 
engineering and water management; (B) a social and WUA development specialist; (C) a 
procurement and contracts management specialist; (D) a program and progress 
monitoring and evaluation specialist; (E) a financial management specialist; 
 
(F) a full-time environmental monitoring specialist; and (G) an executive secretary. The 
TS-SBC may also include short-term specialized technical assistance consultants and 
support staff as may be deemed necessary under the Project; 
 
Page  28
-
26
-
(c) 
no later than January 1, 2004, or such later date as may be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, establish and thereafter maintain, in a form 
and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, within the 
NWRA Sana’a Branch, a unit (the IPAC Unit) to be responsible for the information and 
public awareness campaign included in Part D of the Project.  The staff of the IPAC Unit 
shall include a part-time international communications/public relations expert and 
three (3) local experts with a background in communication, social sciences, and 
psychology; 
 
(d) 
no later than January 1, 2004, or such later date as may be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, establish and thereafter maintain, in form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, within MAI at least 
two (2) locally staffed Social Mobilization Teams (SMTs) for Part A of the Project.  The 
functions of the SMTs for Part A of the Project shall include: (i) serving as social 
intermediaries between MAI/GDI and the local stakeholder organizations; (ii) providing 
farmers with information on the technologies, costs and benefits of modern irrigation 
equipment, including the incentive system available under the Project; and 
(iii) facilitating the formation and operation of community organizations for water 
management and systems operation and maintenance. The staff of the SMTs for Part A of 
the Project shall include: (A) a local sociologist/WUA specialist; (B) an 
irrigation/groundwater engineer; and (C) an agro-economist financial advisor; and 
 
(e) 
no later than January 1, 2005, or such later date as may be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, establish and thereafter maintain, in form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, within MAI at least 
one (1) locally staffed SMT for Part B of the Project. The functions of the SMT for Part 
B
of the Project shall include: (i) serving as social intermediaries between MAI/GDI and 
the local stakeholder organizations; (ii) providing farmers  and local villages with 
information on the technologies, costs and benefits of dam management and maintenance 
under the Project; and (iii) facilitating the formation and operation of community 
organizations for dam management, operation and maintenance. The staff of the SMT for 
Part B of the Project shall include: (A) a local institutional management specialist; and 
(B) a local dam/equipment operations and maintenance engineer.
 
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
facilitate the establishment and registration of, in accordance with the 
laws of the Borrower and thereafter maintain, in form and with functions satisfactory to 
the Association, water user associations (WUAs) for irrigation areas.  Participation in the 
incentive package for the irrigation improvement component under Part A of the Project 
is subject to the establishment of WUAs.  The functions of WUAs, as authorized by the 
NWRA Sana’a Branch, shall include the carrying out of irrigation management. WUAs 
shall also be responsible for water abstraction regulation and enforcement; and 
 
Page  29
-
27
-
(b) 
following the demand for dam construction or rehabilitation, facilitate 
the establishment of and thereafter maintain, in form and with functions satisfactory to 
the Association, water user federations (WUFs).  The WUFs shall be responsible for the 
coordination and overview at sub-basin level of the management and operation and 
maintenance of wadis, dams and access roads, including, self-regulation and internal 
enforcement of water resources usage and rules
,
and corresponding water use conflicts 
resolution. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause MAI to carry out Parts A and B of the Project. 
 
6. 
Not later than June 30, 2005, the Borrower shall have completed the 
commissioning of the improved Sana’a WWTP,
 
to ensure that the effluent and sludge 
produced by the Sana’a WWTP meets the environmental standards set forth in the EMP. 
The Borrower shall carry out no later than one (1) month as at the commissioning of the 
improved Sana’a WWTP, by an independent laboratory acceptable to the Association, a 
monitoring program for the Sana’a WWTP and on a semi-annual basis thereafter. 
 
Part B
:
Resettlement Policy Framework
The Borrower shall carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected 
Persons in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Resettlement Policy Framework 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association. Without limiting the generality of the 
foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary measures to minimize, to the extent 
possible, any loss by the Affected Persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently; (ii) 
carry out the Resettlement Policy Framework in a manner designed to improve, or at least 
maintain, the living standard, income earning capacity and production levels of all 
Affected Persons; (iii) furnish to the Association any revisions proposed to be introduced 
to the Resettlement Policy Framework in order to achieve its objectives and, thereafter, 
introduce such revisions to the Resettlement Policy Framework as shall have been agreed 
with the Association; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the 
Borrower to monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, the implementation of the Resettlement Policy Framework 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (v) furnish to the Association, by June 30 
and December 31 of each year until completion of the Project, commencing 
June 30, 2004, semi-annual reports on the results of such activities during the period 
preceding the date of said report; and (vi) furnish to the Association, by June 30 and 
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2004, through the second year 
following completion of the Project, semi-annual reports prepared by an independent 
monitoring entity acceptable to the Association, on the results of the resettlement 
activities during the same six-month periods referred to under sub-paragraph (v) above. 
 
Page  30
-
28
-
Part C
:
Environnemental Management Plan
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the EMP in a manner designed to ensure that 
the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards; (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower to 
monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, the implementation of the EMP and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (iii) furnish to the Association semi-annual reports, commencing on June 30 and 
ending on December 31 of each year, until completion of the Project, each such report to 
incorporate the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, together with any 
revisions proposed to be introduced to the EMP to achieve its objectives; and  
(iv) thereafter, introduce such revisions into the EMP as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
 
Part D
:
Project Reporting
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30 of each year an interim report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
carry out, jointly with the Association not later than March 31 of every 
year, beginning on March 1, 2004, an annual progress review of the implementation of 
the Project, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association
’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Association by April 30 and October 31 or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraphs (b) and (d) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  31
-
29
-
2. 
No later than thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall carry 
out, jointly with the Association, a Mid-term Review of the progress made in carrying out 
the Project. The Mid-term Review shall cover among other things: 
 
(a) 
an assessment of: (i) work programs prepared as of the date of the Mid-
term Review and the progress made in carrying out the said programs; (ii) training 
provided under the Project; and (iii) procurement under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
a review of the activities carried out under the Project. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 
 
December 31, 2006, or such later date as the Association shall request, a report 
describing progress in the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the Program, including 
the attainment of the milestones agreed to between the Borrower and the Association  
and required to be met as a pre-requisite to prepare a follow-on operation; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Association, not later than March 31, 2007, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures which the Association shall deem 
appropriate to prepare a follow-on operation. 
Page  32
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 (a), 1 (b), 2 (a), 2 (b), 
3
(a), 3 (b), 3 (c), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  33
-
31
-
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
 
further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  34
-
32
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
