                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                   Report No: AB154

Project Name                       PAKISTAN - PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING
                                   PROJECT
Region                             South Asia Regional Office
Sector                             Central government administration (76%); Sub-national government
                                   administration (15%); Tertiary education (9%)
Theme                              Administrative and civil service reform (P); Regulation and competition policy (P);
                                   Debt management and fiscal substainability (S); Tax policy and administration (S);
                                   Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)
Project                            P083370
Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
Implementing Agency(ies)           FINANCE DIVISION, GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
                                   Address: 424, Q Block, Pak Secretariat, Islamabad
                                   Contact Person: Ismail Qureshi, Additional Secretary, Finance Division (Policy
                                   Wing)
                                   Tel: 0092-51-9206367          Fax: 0092-51- 9214629            Email:
Environment Category               C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                  January 16, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                October 27, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 May 20, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
In Pakistan, the capacity and quality of public institutions has been declining over time. Although the civil
service has pockets of excellence, collectively its performance leaves a lot to be desired. If Pakistan has to
accelerate growth, reduce poverty, and enable private sector to realize their full potential in a competitive
global market, a substantial improvement is needed in efficiency and management culture of the
government. Successful implementation of GOP's on-going reform program - both at federal and provincial
levels - is inseparably linked with the capacity of government institutions and the quality of civil service
(ICA, World Bank 2003b).

I       Key Issues in the Civil Service

Based on the analytical work undertaken on civil service reform (CSR) in Pakistan, along with stakeholder
consultations, the following key issues have been identified that constrain the government from assuming
new and more complex roles needed in the context of broader structural reforms that are currently being
implemented:

(i) Weak Technical and Managerial Skills: The technical competence of civil servants has been declining
over the past couple of decades. Human resource development in the public sector has not been given
adequate resources, leading to a steady erosion in capacity and technical skills of civil servants. Estimates
made by the Committee on Civil Service Reforms indicate that during the last two decades annual
expenditures on civil service training have been less than 0.5 percent of the compensation of civil servants.
At the same time, the quality of Pakistan's higher education institutions          has declined significantly,
resulting in an overall deterioration in quality of entry level civil servants. This introduces the burden of
redressing these inadequacies during pre-service and in-service training ­ a task not being done well by the
existing civil service training institutes. As a result of these weaknesses: (i) capacity for policy work and

                                                        2
                                                                                                              PID


management is generally limited; (ii) there is excessive reliance on foreign/local consultants for routine
policy and implementation work, and even in these situations, consultants' output is generally not
effectively utilized either because of inability to understand and/or ineffective management of the work; and
(iii) approach to problem solving is narrow and outdated as officers are unable to bring in cross-country
experience and best-practice knowledge to development challenges facing the country.

(ii) Recruitment, Promotion, Placements and Transfers Process
l Recruitment: As noted above, the recruitment in the civil service is overseen by the Federal/Provincial
     Public Service Commission (FPSC/PPSC). Although the examination process is rigorous and
     competitive, there are wide ranging issues/challenges in the system, such as outdated exam
     curricula/syllabi, and inappropriate criteria for applying (for instance, minimum qualification for initial
     recruitment requires a Bachelors degree, equivalent to 14 years of education). This, along with
     declining standards of higher education, has directly affected the quality of entry level civil servants.
l Promotion: Promotion policies are generally systematic depending on performance evaluation,
     seniority, performance during training, and the quality of work experience. These criteria, nonetheless,
     are often perceived to be inadequate. Additionally, promotions always occur in vacancies in an
     occupational group, rather than vacancies in the departments officers are working in - - which
     highlights the vertically separated nature of occupational groups.
l Placements and Transfers: There are no systematic policies or mechanisms for placements and
     transfers. In many cases, the process of placements/transfers lacks professional and technical basis,
     leading to a mismatch between skills and placement. An important issue in the context of placements is
     the de facto reservation of certain posts for officers from the APUG (i.e. DMG, Police and the
     Secretariat Groups). The distribution of working positions in BS-17 to BS-22, in terms of the total
     number of civil servants belonging to the FUG and the APUG is skewed significantly in favour of the
     APUG.

(iii) 'Bottom Heavy' Employment: While public sector employment in Pakistan may not be exceptionally
large in the inter-country comparison, it is certainly excessive in relation to its productivity and service
delivery performance (PPEM, World Bank, 2003a). In addition, employment is heavily skewed towards
lower grades, reflecting the productivity levels.

(iv) Mismatch Between Skills & Compensation has become increasingly insufficient to attract managerial
and technical talent at the higher levels but may be too generous at lower levels. The salary compression
ratio is 1:10. There is substantial evidence that the real compensation gap between public and private
salaries and emoluments has steadily increased. Finally, the fact that there has been a historical decline of
the pay compression estimated at 1:46 in 1962, also indicates that lower level compensation has increased
significantly over time while it has increased slowly at the higher levels (PPEM, World Bank, 2003a).

(v) Structural Rigidities: There are structural rigidities in the federal and provincial administrations due to
strong vertical orientation of the occupational groups. Lateral movement within cadres is rare. Inter-cadre
rivalries significantly determine the shape of federal divisions and attached departments, as structures are
created to meet the needs of the various groups and cadres for promotion opportunities - rather than on the
basis of policy priorities or operational needs (PPER, World Bank, 2003a).

(vi) Devolution: To help redress the problems resulting from an unresponsive and unaccountable civil
service, the government completed its first phase of the devolution initiative by holding elections in August
2001. If the difficult step from political to fiscal decentralization can be made, and the requisite
implementation and monitoring capacity developed, the system has the potential to deliver better local
services (DPR, World Bank 2002).

                                                       3
                                                                                                           PID




II        Government's Evolving Civil Service Reform Strategy

The overall aim of GoP's civil service reform is to create a more qualified, innovative and efficient civil
service which is responsive to the needs of the public, and professionally trained to adapt to changing
global and national challenges.

The Civil Service reform process was started in 1999 and has been going on under the overall supervision
of the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service Reforms. Devolution, Police, Judicial, Tax Administration,
Public Financial Management and Procurement reforms have been launched. Several important policy
decisions on recruitment, promotion, posting, compensation and professional development have been taken.
To ensure meaningful implementation and deepen the reforms, follow up activities are under review.

While several key structural reforms are on-going, given the complexity and political economy issues,
implementation will take time. The key initiated reforms are in the following areas:
(i) Professional development
(ii)      Recruitment reforms
(iii)     Promotion reforms
(iv)      Accountability and Client focus
(v)       Pay and Pension Reforms
(vi) Devolution
(vii) Governance reforms in key institutions

To manage the implementation of on-going reforms, and help catalyze the GoP's comprehensive civil
service reform strategy, a Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) is being established within the Establishment
Division.


2. Objectives
The overarching goal of the proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) is to support
Government of Pakistan's (GoPs) efforts in the implementation of its on-going Economic Reform program.
Focusing on strategic areas, the project will have the following three distinct capacity building objectives:

     (i) broad-based professional development of public sector officers;
     (ii) capacity enhancement in key ministries/agencies which are in the forefront of design,
     implementation and monitoring of policy reforms; and
     (iii) strengthening of regulatory agencies.

Using an incremental approach, the project also aims to strengthen government capacity to facilitate
complementary broad-based civil service reforms (CSR). It is expected that the project initiatives will lead
to improvement in the overall quality of policy formulation, reform implementation, service delivery, and
human resource management of the public sector.

This would be achieved through (i) high quality advanced and specialized training; (ii) accessing
international and local expertise and advisory services for capacity building; and (iii) procuring goods and
equipment to support capacity building of participating agencies.

                                                         4
                                                                                                           PID


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
By strengthening public sector capacity and enhancing quality of civil service, the Bank will significantly
contribute towards successful and timely implementation of GOP's on-going structural reform program at
federal, provincial and district levels. The Bank's experience with institutional reforms and global
experience in public sector management places it in an advantageous position to assist GOP in achieving
the intended capacity building outcomes. There is a critical need for well trained and qualified professional,
technical and management officers in the civil service to successfully implement the Government's program
of poverty reduction, economic growth and human development.

4. Description
A: Project Design

Specifically, the project will have the following three components :

(i) Professional Development
This component will address the capacity and technical skills gap in the civil service, and will largely focus
on the professional development of federal and provincial civil service and ex-cadre officers, including
district officers. It will be undertaken through the following:

         (a) Professional training program (degree and non-degree) for middle to senior level officers: Under
this sub-component, the Establishment Division will manage and implement two training programs for civil
servants:
              l an Executive Development Program (EDP) for senior (grade 20 and 21) civil servants to
                    create a community of reform champions in the upper echelons of the civil service;
              l a Professional Development Program (PDEV) for younger (grade 17-19) civil servants
                    to significantly enhance their technical capabilities as policy analysts and implementors.
                    This program will be open to all federal, provincial/district, and ex-cadre officers.

          (b) Strengthening in-country training capacity through support of training institutions (PASC,
          NIPAs, NSPP): This sub-component comprises up-gradation of civil service training institutions
          including: building faculty capacity; improving/revising curricula; enhancing infrastructure and
          IT connectivity; twinning with international institutions; and support for establishment of a
          National School of Public Policy (NSPP).

          Estimated cost of sub-components (a) and (b) US$ 22 million.

          (c) Improving the civil service recruitment process through support of the Federal Public Service
          Commission (FPSC): Some key areas of support would include strengthening the entry level
          examination process including improving syllabi and system of competitive examination, skills
          enhancement, and upgradation of FPSC to an automated computerized environment. Estimated
          cost US$ 1 million.

ii) Strengthening Economic Policy and Management:
The second project component will focus on capacity building of key federal and provincial ministries and
divisions that are in the vanguard of design and implementation of GOP's reform agenda. This will include
Finance, Central Board of Revenue, Establishment Division, Planning etc.

         (a) Ministry of Finance (MoF): The Project aims at building the capacity of various wings and
         agencies of the Ministry of Finance dealing with policy formulation, budget, expenditure, financial

                                                    5
                                                                                                        PID


    and cash management. This is expected to help these wings and agencies of MoF to better
    discharge their functions, which will result in better formulation, coordination, implementation and
    evaluation of economic and fiscal policies of the Government. The Project will support an
    integrated medium-term program comprising: professional training of staff (through degree ­ to be
    covered under PDEV ­ and non-degree programs, short-term specialized training in areas such as
    pension reforms, debt management, public expenditure management, etc.); providing short- and
    medium-term consultants not only for undertaking specialized analytical work and policy reform
    programs, but also to provide hands-on training to MoF staff in these critical areas; and to finance
    infrastructure and IT facilities. Estimated cost US$ 4 million.

    (b) Central Board of Revenue: This sub-component is part of CBR's overall tax administration
    reform strategy, to be supported under a larger Tax Administration Reform Project, that is
    currently under preparation with Bank assistance through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In
    addition to preparation of a comprehensive reform plan, CBR has also undertaken a few reform
    initiatives under the PPF including, establishment of Large/Medium Tax Payers Units, sales tax
    STARR project, a customs pilot project and others. The PPF funds are already committed, and the
    larger program support may not be effective before the next 6-8 months. As it is critical to continue
    with the short-term initiatives without delay so that the reform program does not lose its gained
    momentum, it has been agreed to include some immediate reform initiatives under this project, and
    bridge the financing gap while the larger program is being prepared. The initiatives proposed to be
    supported under this sub-component include: extension of the Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) and the
    Medium Taxpayer Unit (MTU), customs reform initiative, a central database for the automated
    sales tax refund program, support for implementation of the universal self assessment scheme,
    human resource management and associated training and staff development, and setting up dispute
    resolution centers. Estimated cost US$5 million.

    (c) Ministry of Commerce: to strengthen capacity of the ministry to play an increased role in trade
    promotion, coordination, facilitation and policy analysis in the emerging global environment. The
    initiatives proposed include specialized training on trade and WTO related areas, analytical and
    technical studies, and infrastructure and IT support. Estimated cost US$ 2 million (EIP under
    review).

    (d) Establishment Division: to strengthen the capacity to manage the broader CSR program, a Civil
Service Reform Unit (CSRU) will be established. Its charter will be to oversee GOP's comprehensive
civil service reform program. Specifically, it will support the following areas of civil service reform:
        l Devolution: completion of devolution; organizing seminars/workshops of provincial and
             national level stakeholders to develop consensus on additional reforms; and maintaining an
             active dialogue with counterparts.
        l Recruitment and Promotion Reforms: modernizing the cadre system and reforming the
             system of occupational groups; and strengthening of merit protection.
        l Pay and Pension Reforms: providing support for deepening the Pay and Pension reforms
             (including monetization of benefits) which provide for more attractive and more
             transparent packages of total compensation at senior levels, within fiscal constraints.
        l Professional Development: improving the quality of training and professional development
             available to serving staff. This will include managing the Executive Development program
             (EDP) and Professional Development program (PDEV).
        l Monitoring and Evaluation: monitoring implementation of already initiated governance,
             structural and policy reforms; maintaining updated databases of civil service employment
             totals at all levels of government; developing appropriate human resource management

                                                      6
                                                                                                         PID


                 information systems so that the federal, provincial and district governments are able to
                 plan their human resource management on the basis of actual staff and identified skills,
                 and not just sanctioned positions; carrying out evaluation of reforms; generating periodic
                 reports for submission to the Secretary, Establishment Division and the Cabinet
                 Committee on Civil Services Reforms; and carryng out tracer studies for the returnees of
                 the EDP and PDEV Programs
            l Coordination: serving as Secretariat work for the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service
                 Reform;    maintaining     a  close  liaison  with    CSR     units established    in other
                 Ministries/Divisions; making concrete proposals for aligning donor initiatives -
                 particularly between the ADB, WB and DfID.
                 Estimated cost US$2 million.

        (e) Planning Commission: Strengthening Planning Commission's capacity in areas of economic
        planning. This involves capacity building to plan, design, appraise, implement, monitor and
        evaluate development plans, programs and projects. The allocated sum will also be used to
        strengthen project management practices besides preparing overall sectoral policies and planning
        framework over the medium and long term. Estimated cost US$ 5 million.

        (f) Economic Affairs Division (EAD): to strengthen capacity in coordination and monitoring of
        relationship with donors and donor funded projects. This entails development of technical and
        managerial capacity of the Division in the management of loan portfolios, streamlining of all
        procedures and operations and effective monitoring of the donor sponsored projects. Estimated cost
        US$ 1 million. (EIP under review).

        (g) Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA): strengthening the newly established PPRA
        to monitor and regulate public procurement in the country through developing a modern
        transparent and cost effective public procurement system and putting in place an effective
        monitoring system (EIP under review).

iii)    Strengthening of Regulatory Function
The third component will support capacity-building of the Regulatory Agencies (National Electric & Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA), Oil & Gas Development Authority (OGRA) and Pakistan
Telecommunication Authority (PTA). Specifically this component will support the following agencies:
Estimated cost US$ 7 million.
    (a) NEPRA: to strengthen NEPRA's capacity to regulate the natural monopoly aspects of the electric
    power sector, develop a competitive structure for electric power generation and supply and ensure the
    reliability and adequate supply of electric power. Skill development and development of regulatory
    institutions are to be key areas of focus.
    (b) OGRA: to strengthen OGRA's capacity to improve its ability to foster competition, encourage
    private investment and ownership in the sector and deal with challenges arising from the proposed
    restructuring of the gas sector.
    (c) PTA: To strengthen capacity to regulate the telecommunications sector and implement the telecom
    deregulation policy which will open all market segments within the industry to private investors.


The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$ 58 million. Of this, about 60-70% is for training;
around 20-25% for specialized technical consultancies - bulk of which pertains to the specific studies of
the regulatory agencies; and the remaining 10% is for procurement of goods and services.

                                                            7
                                                                                                               PID




    5. Financing
    Source (Total ( US$m))
    BORROWER ($6.00)
    IDA ($52.00)
    Total Project Cost: $58.00

    6. Implementation
    The following implementation arrangements are envisaged by the Government:

    A National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) comprising Secretaries of Finance,
    Establishment, Economic Affairs, and Planning Division plus one independent academic (or a key civil
    society representative), will oversee implementation of the project and review new proposals for inclusion
    in the program.

    The project will be implemented by the Finance Division (FD). There will be a small facilitation and
    coordination unit in FD, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Coordinator (PC),
    which will include two professionals (one Procurement Specialist & one Finance Manager) and two
    accounting assistants (accounts officer and assistant accounts officer).

    Approval Process for New Proposals
    The criteria for allowing new agency proposals would include:
         (i) full alignment to project objectives and with the agency's overall strategic vision/plan;
         (ii) an entity improvement plan (EIP) along with indicators for monitoring progress of the institutional
         strengthening program;
         (iii) clearly defined proposals with timelines of activities and fully costed components; and
         (v) agencies having their first year's program ready for implementation.

Interested agencies/ministries would prepare their capacity building proposals along with an Entity
Improvement Plan (EIP) in consultation with the PCU/PC. These EIPs would be prepared in line with agreed
criteria (as noted above) and will be shared with the Bank for review before submission to the NSCC through
their respective Secretaries/Agency heads. The proposals would then be submitted to the NSCC for
consideration and approval. The proposals, once reviewed by the Bank and approved by the NSCC, would not
require any further approval by the Planning Commission as the total 'un-allocated' amount would have already
been approved under the umbrella PC-1 by the CDWP and ECNEC. Once approved, the PCU/PC will allocate
resources from the un-allocated amount to the new participating agency.


    7. Sustainability
    The focus of the proposed project is on sustainability through maximization of investment in staff training
    and education using a combination of foreign (declining over time) and domestic (increasing over medium
    term) institutions.

    8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
    The key lessons from similar projects in Pakistan, Indonesia, Eritrea and from experience world-wide with
    public sector institutional reforms include:
         i) Excessive complexity in terms of institutional participation should be avoided i.e. keep the number of
         participating institutions manageable. While institutional complexity should be minimized, it is
         important that all complementary institutions are directly or indirectly included as participants and

                                                       8
                                                                                                          PID


    beneficiaries. Without this, sustainable gains in institutional capabilities are not achieved;
    ii) Sustainable capacity building requires that broader civil service reform issues (incentive,
    compensation, etc.) be addressed and that consensus building among stakeholders should be
    undertaken. This is important in order to sustain the benefits to the organizational capacity through
    investments in training and education;
    iv) Consultants for short term analytical support should be minimized, and staff training/education
    maximized if sustainable institutional capacity is the desired goal.

While designing the project, the team tried to incorporate the above lessons. Focus of the project is only on
key government agencies including complementary institutions (PASC/NIPAs; Regulators). Analytical
work in support of overall civil service reforms is being supported through the establishment of the Civil
Service Reform unit. The size of the direct target population is sufficiently large to form a critical mass so
that it can perform a catalytic role and leverage benefits to the indirect beneficiaries of this project. The
focus of the proposed project is on sustainability through maximization of investment in staff
training/education, using a combination of foreign (declining importance over the project disbursement
period) and domestic (increasing role over project life) educational and training institutions.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues   : None




10. List of factual technical documents:
    l Pakistan Public Expenditure Management (PPER): Strengthening the Civil Service, World Bank
         2003
    l Pakistan Development Policy Review: A New Dawn? (DPR),World Bank 2002
    l Report on the Committee on Restructuring and Rightsizing of the Federal Ministries/Divisions
         (chaired by Dr. Shahid Amjad Chaudhry), Government of Pakistan, April 2001
    l Civil Service Reform, A review of World Bank Assistance, OED, World Bank, August 1999
    l Report of the Commission on Administrative Restructuring on Re-engineering of the Federal
         Government Organizations (chaired by Dr. Hafiz Pasha), Government of Pakistan, February 1999

    l A Framework for Civil Service Reform in Pakistan, World Bank, 1998
    l The State in A Changing World, WDR, 1997.


11. Contact Point:

      Task Manager
      Asya Akhlaque
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: 92-51-2279641/6
       Fax: 92-51-2279648/9

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433

                                                  9
                                                                                                 PID


         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

