                               Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC234
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/16/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: PAKISTAN                                              Project ID: P083370
Project: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY                      Task Team Leader: Asya Akhlaque
BUILDING PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 27, 2003                  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 20, 2004                                    IDA Amount ($m): 52.00
Managing Unit: SASFP                                           Sector: Central government administration (76%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)             Sub-national government administration (15%);
Status: Lending                                                Tertiary education (9%)
                                                               Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                                                               Regulation and competition policy (P); Debt
                                                               management and fiscal substainability (S); Tax
                                                               policy and administration (S); Public expenditure,
                                                               financial management and procurement (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The overarching goal of the proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) is to support
Government of Pakistan's (GoPs) efforts in the implementation of its on-going Economic Reform program.
Focusing on strategic areas, the project will have the following three distinct capacity building objectives:

    (i) broad-based professional development of public sector officers;
    (ii) capacity enhancement in key ministries/agencies which are in the forefront of design,
    implementation and monitoring of policy reforms; and
    (iii) strengthening of regulatory agencies.

Using an incremental approach, the project also aims to strengthen government capacity to facilitate
complementary broad-based civil service reforms (CSR). It is expected that the project initiatives will lead
to improvement in the overall quality of policy formulation, reform implementation, service delivery, and
human resource management of the public sector.

This would be achieved through (i) high quality advanced and specialized training; (ii) accessing
international and local expertise and advisory services for capacity building; and (iii) procuring goods and
equipment to support capacity building of participating agencies.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
A: Project Design

Specifically, the project will have the following three components :

(i) Professional Development
This component will address the capacity and technical skills gap in the civil service, and will largely focus
on the professional development of federal and provincial civil service and ex-cadre officers, including
district officers. It will be undertaken through the following:

                                                       2
                                                                                                          ISDS




         (a) Professional training program (degree and non-degree) for middle to senior level officers: Under
this sub-component, the Establishment Division will manage and implement two training programs for civil
servants:
              l an Executive Development Program (EDP) for senior (grade 20 and 21) civil servants to
                   create a community of reform champions in the upper echelons of the civil service;
              l a Professional Development Program (PDEV) for younger (grade 17-19) civil servants
                   to significantly enhance their technical capabilities as policy analysts and implementors.
                   This program will be open to all federal, provincial/district, and ex-cadre officers.

          (b) Strengthening in-country training capacity through support of training institutions (PASC,
          NIPAs, NSPP): This sub-component comprises up-gradation of civil service training institutions
          including: building faculty capacity; improving/revising curricula; enhancing infrastructure and
          IT connectivity; twinning with international institutions; and support for establishment of a
          National School of Public Policy (NSPP).

          Estimated cost of sub-components (a) and (b) US$ 22 million.

          (c) Improving the civil service recruitment process through support of the Federal Public Service
          Commission (FPSC): Some key areas of support would include strengthening the entry level
          examination process including improving syllabi and system of competitive examination, skills
          enhancement, and upgradation of FPSC to an automated computerized environment. Estimated
          cost US$ 1 million.

ii) Strengthening Economic Policy and Management:
The second project component will focus on capacity building of key federal and provincial ministries and
divisions that are in the vanguard of design and implementation of GOP's reform agenda. This will include
Finance, Central Board of Revenue, Establishment Division, Planning etc.

         (a) Ministry of Finance (MoF): The Project aims at building the capacity of various wings and
         agencies of the Ministry of Finance dealing with policy formulation, budget, expenditure, financial
         and cash management. This is expected to help these wings and agencies of MoF to better
         discharge their functions, which will result in better formulation, coordination, implementation and
         evaluation of economic and fiscal policies of the Government. The Project will support an
         integrated medium-term program comprising: professional training of staff (through degree ­ to be
         covered under PDEV ­ and non-degree programs, short-term specialized training in areas such as
         pension reforms, debt management, public expenditure management, etc.); providing short- and
         medium-term consultants not only for undertaking specialized analytical work and policy reform
         programs, but also to provide hands-on training to MoF staff in these critical areas; and to finance
         infrastructure and IT facilities. Estimated cost US$ 4 million.

         (b) Central Board of Revenue: This sub-component is part of CBR's overall tax administration
         reform strategy, to be supported under a larger Tax Administration Reform Project, that is
         currently under preparation with Bank assistance through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In
         addition to preparation of a comprehensive reform plan, CBR has also undertaken a few reform
         initiatives under the PPF including, establishment of Large/Medium Tax Payers Units, sales tax
         STARR project, a customs pilot project and others. The PPF funds are already committed, and the
         larger program support may not be effective before the next 6-8 months. As it is critical to continue
         with the short-term initiatives without delay so that the reform program does not lose its gained

                                                    3
                                                                                                      ISDS


    momentum, it has been agreed to include some immediate reform initiatives under this project, and
    bridge the financing gap while the larger program is being prepared. The initiatives proposed to be
    supported under this sub-component include: extension of the Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) and the
    Medium Taxpayer Unit (MTU), customs reform initiative, a central database for the automated
    sales tax refund program, support for implementation of the universal self assessment scheme,
    human resource management and associated training and staff development, and setting up dispute
    resolution centers. Estimated cost US$5 million.

    (c) Ministry of Commerce: to strengthen capacity of the ministry to play an increased role in trade
    promotion, coordination, facilitation and policy analysis in the emerging global environment. The
    initiatives proposed include specialized training on trade and WTO related areas, analytical and
    technical studies, and infrastructure and IT support. Estimated cost US$ 2 million (EIP under
    review).

    (d) Establishment Division: to strengthen the capacity to manage the broader CSR program, a Civil
Service Reform Unit (CSRU) will be established. Its charter will be to oversee GOP's comprehensive
civil service reform program. Specifically, it will support the following areas of civil service reform:
        l Devolution: completion of devolution; organizing seminars/workshops of provincial and
             national level stakeholders to develop consensus on additional reforms; and maintaining an
             active dialogue with counterparts.
        l Recruitment and Promotion Reforms: modernizing the cadre system and reforming the
             system of occupational groups; and strengthening of merit protection.
        l Pay and Pension Reforms: providing support for deepening the Pay and Pension reforms
             (including monetization of benefits) which provide for more attractive and more
             transparent packages of total compensation at senior levels, within fiscal constraints.
        l Professional Development: improving the quality of training and professional development
             available to serving staff. This will include managing the Executive Development program
             (EDP) and Professional Development program (PDEV).
        l Monitoring and Evaluation: monitoring implementation of already initiated governance,
             structural and policy reforms; maintaining updated databases of civil service employment
             totals at all levels of government; developing appropriate human resource management
             information systems so that the federal, provincial and district governments are able to
             plan their human resource management on the basis of actual staff and identified skills,
             and not just sanctioned positions; carrying out evaluation of reforms; generating periodic
             reports for submission to the Secretary, Establishment Division and the Cabinet
             Committee on Civil Services Reforms; and carryng out tracer studies for the returnees of
             the EDP and PDEV Programs
        l Coordination: serving as Secretariat work for the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service
             Reform;    maintaining     a  close    liaison  with   CSR    units   established    in  other
             Ministries/Divisions; making concrete proposals for aligning donor initiatives -
             particularly between the ADB, WB and DfID.
             Estimated cost US$2 million.

    (e) Planning Commission: Strengthening Planning Commission's capacity in areas of economic
    planning. This involves capacity building to plan, design, appraise, implement, monitor and
    evaluate development plans, programs and projects. The allocated sum will also be used to
    strengthen project management practices besides preparing overall sectoral policies and planning
    framework over the medium and long term. Estimated cost US$ 5 million.

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS


         (f) Economic Affairs Division (EAD): to strengthen capacity in coordination and monitoring of
         relationship with donors and donor funded projects. This entails development of technical and
         managerial capacity of the Division in the management of loan portfolios, streamlining of all
         procedures and operations and effective monitoring of the donor sponsored projects. Estimated cost
         US$ 1 million. (EIP under review).

         (g) Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA): strengthening the newly established PPRA
         to monitor and regulate public procurement in the country through developing a modern
         transparent and cost effective public procurement system and putting in place an effective
         monitoring system (EIP under review).

iii)     Strengthening of Regulatory Function
The third component will support capacity-building of the Regulatory Agencies (National Electric & Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA), Oil & Gas Development Authority (OGRA) and Pakistan
Telecommunication Authority (PTA). Specifically this component will support the following agencies:
Estimated cost US$ 7 million.
     (a) NEPRA: to strengthen NEPRA's capacity to regulate the natural monopoly aspects of the electric
     power sector, develop a competitive structure for electric power generation and supply and ensure the
     reliability and adequate supply of electric power. Skill development and development of regulatory
     institutions are to be key areas of focus.
     (b) OGRA: to strengthen OGRA's capacity to improve its ability to foster competition, encourage
     private investment and ownership in the sector and deal with challenges arising from the proposed
     restructuring of the gas sector.
     (c) PTA: To strengthen capacity to regulate the telecommunications sector and implement the telecom
     deregulation policy which will open all market segments within the industry to private investors.


The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$ 58 million. Of this, about 60-70% is for training;
around 20-25% for specialized technical consultancies - bulk of which pertains to the specific studies of
the regulatory agencies; and the remaining 10% is for procurement of goods and services


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
N/A


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No

                                                        5
                                                                                                           ISDS


    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes    No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes    No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes    No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes    No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes    No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes    No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The implementing agency will hold consultations with the participating ministries and agencies who are the
key stakeholders. Based on these consultations, the programs of the participating agencies will be
developed/finalized. In addition, key stakeholders within federal, provincial and district governments will
also be consulted in the overall restructuring process of the civil service.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

                                                     6
                                                                                                    ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Asya Akhlaque                                      1/16/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Zia Aljalaly                                       1/16/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Paul Jonathan Martin                                    10/30/03
Sector Manager/Director               Joseph Del Mar Pernia                              10/30/03

