Authorized

                                                                                                                                                           Documentof
                                                                                                                                                     The WorldBankGroup

          Disclosure                                                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                    Public

                                                                                                                                                                                               ReportNo. 28391




                          Authorized                                                                                                       PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                                                                                                                              ONA

                                    Disclosure                                                                                                   PROPOSEDIDA CREDIT


                                              Public                                                                                    INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR36.9 MILLION
                                                                                                                                            (US$55.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                                                                                                                            TO THE

                                                                                                                                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                                    Authorized
                                                                                                                                                             FORA

                                                                                                                        PAKISTANPUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDINGPROJECT
                                                              Disclosure


                                                                        Public


                                                                                                                                                         April 20,2004




                                                                              Authorized




                                                                                        Disclosure
                                                                                                            FinanceandPrivateSector Development
                                                                                                  Public    SouthAsia Region

                                                                                                            This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance of
                                                                                                            their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange RateEffective April 20,2004)

   Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupee(PRs)
       PRs57.30 = US$1
        US$.O17 = PRs 1

            FISCAL YEAR
            July 1 --June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABS- Annual BudgetStatement                              I--




ACR- Annual Confidential Report.
ADB- AsianDevelopmentBank        '
AG- Auditor General
APUG- All PakistanUnifiedGrades
BPS- Basic Pay Scale
BS-Basic Scale
CAS- Country Assistance Strategy
CBR- Central Board of Revenue
CCB- Citizen Community Boards
CDWP- Central DevelopmentWorking Party
CF- CorporateFinance
CFAA- Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGA- Controller Generalof Accounts
CSA- Civil Services Academy
 CSO- Civil Society Organization
 CSR- Civil Service Reform
 CSRU- Civil ServiceReformUnit
 CSS- Central Superior Services
 DFIs-DevelopmentFinanceInstitutions
 DFID-Departmentfor IntemationalDevelopment
 DMG-DistrictManagementGroup
 DPCO- Debt Policy Coordination Office
 DPR- DevelopmentPolicy Reveiw
 EAD-EconomicAffairs Division
 ECNEC- Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
 EDP- Executive Development Program
 EIP- Entity Improvement Plan
 FAB-FrequencyAllocation Board
 FBS-FederalBureau of Statistics
 FD-FinanceDivision
 FMC- Financial ManagementCoordiantor
 FPSC- FederalPublic Services Commission
 FUG-FederalUnifiedGrades
 FMR-Financial ManagementReveiw
 GoP- Governmnetof Pakistan

                                                             FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                    GPN- General Porcurement Notice
                    HEC- Higher Education Commission
                    IBA-Institute of Business Administration
                    ICA- Investment Climate Assessment
                    ICB- International Competitive Bidding
                    IDA-InternationalDevelopmentAssistance
                    IMF-InternationalMonetary Fund
                    JS- Joint Secretary
                    KESC- Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
                    LDI-LongDistance andInternational
                    LGO- Local Government Ordinance
                    LL-LocalLoop
                    LRMC- Long RunMarginal Cost
                    LTU-Large Taxpayer Unit
                    LUMS- Lahore University o fManagement Sciences
                    MoC- Ministry of Commerce
                    MoF- Ministry of Finance
                    MoW&P- Ministryo f Water and Power
                    MP- Management Pay Scales
                    MTBF-MediumTerm Budget Framework
                    MTU- Medium Taxpayer Unit
                    NAB- National Accountability Bureau
                    NEPRA- National Electric Power RegulatoIy Authority
                    NGO- Non Government Organization
                    NIPA- National Institute o f Public Administration
                    N O W - Norwegian Agency for Development
                    NRB-NationalReconstructionBureau
                    NSCC- National Steering and Coordination Committee
                    NSPP- National School o f Public Policy
                    NUST- NationalUniversity of Science andTechnology
                    OED- Operations Evaluation Department
                    OGRA- Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
                    OMG- Office ManagementGroup
                    PAC- Public Accounts Committee
                    PASC- Pakistan Administrative Staff College
                    PC- Project Coordinator
                    PCS- Provincial Civil Services
                    PCU- Project Coordination Unit
                    PDEV- Professional Development Program
                    PHRD- Professional HumanResource Development
                    PIFRA- Project for Improvement inFinancial Reporting and Auditing
                    PIU- Project Implementing Unit
                    PPER- Pakistan Public Expenditure Reveiw
                    PPF- Project Preparation Facility
                    PPMI- PakistanPlanning & Management Institute
                    PPRA- Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
                    PPSC- Provincial Public Services Commission
                    PRSC- Poverty Reduction Structural Credit
                    PRSP- Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                  PSCBP- Public Sector Capacity BuildingProject
                  PTA- PakistanTelecommunications Authority
                  PTCL- Pakistan Telecommunications Company Limited
                  SA- Special Account
                  SAC- Structural Adjustmnet Credit
                  SBP- State Bank o f Pakistan
                  SOE- Statement of Expenditures
                  STARR- Sales Tax Automated RefundRepository
                  TA- Technical Assistance
                  TFC- Taxpayer Facilitation Centres
                  UNCTAD- UnitedNations Conference on Trade andDevelopment
                  UNDB-UnitedNationsDevelopment Business
.-                USAS- Universal SelfAssessment Scheme                   .
                                                                          --
                  USAID- United States Agency for IntemationalDevelopment
                  USO- Universal Service Obligation
                  USOA- Universal System o fAccounts
                  WAPDA- Water and Power Development Authority
                  WB- World Bank
                  WHO- World HealthOrganization
                  WTO- World Trade Organization
                  ZTB- ZaraiTraqqiati Bank


                     Vice President:    Praful C. Pate1
          Country Managermirector:      John W. Wall
           Sector Managermirector:      JosephDel Mar Pernia
    Task Team LeadertTask Manager:      Asya Akhlaquel
                                        ShabanaKhawar (Co-Task Leader)

                                              PAKISTAN
                PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTORCAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective                                                            Page

   1. Projsct development objective                                                     .
                                                                                        --  2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                            2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        5
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             5
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                      13

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                    15
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         22
   3. Benefits and target population                                                        22
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                          23

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             24
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bankandor other development agencies           25
   3. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design                                      28
   4. Indicationso fborrower commitment and ownership                                       29
   5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                            29

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                              29
   2. Financial                                                                             30
   3. Technical                                                                             30
   4. Institutional                                                                         30
   5. Environmental                                                                         31
   6. Social                                                                                32
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                     33

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                       33
   2. Critical risks                                                                       33
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       35


G. Main LoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              35
   2. Other                                                                                35

H. Readipessfor Implementation                                                        .--  36

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                               37



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           5 9
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             60
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      61
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                      62
           (B) Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements                           68
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                        7 5
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                      7 6
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    77
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              79
Annex 11:Detailed Cost Table                                                               81

                                                                Pakistan: Public Sector Capacity Building Project (P083370)




                                                     PAKISTAN
                          PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

                                         Project Appraisal Document

                                              South Asia Regional Office
                                                       SASFP


Date:                                                        Team Leader: Asya Akhlaque

Sector ManagerIDirector: Joseph Del Mar Pernia               Sector(s): Central Government Administration (76%), Sub-
Country ManagerIDirector: John W. Wall                       national government administration (15%), Tertiary
Project ID: PO83370                                          education (9%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)          Theme(s): Administrative and civil service reform (P),
                                                             Regulation and competition policy (P), Debt management
                                                             and fiscal sustainability (S),Tax policy and administration
                                                             (S), Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             procurement (S)


 Project Financing Data
 [ ] Loan           [XI Credit      [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:


 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Amount (US$m):


 Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
 Grace period (years): 10                                     Years to maturity: 35
 Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):             Source                                   Local                 Foreign                   Total
BORROWER                                                                       6.00                     0.00                   6.00

IDA

Total:
 Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN



 Responsible agency: FINANCE DIVISION, GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
 Address: 424, Q Block, Pak Secretariat, Islamabad
 Contact Person: Mr.Ismai1 Qureshi, Additional Secretary, Finance Division (External Finance & Policy), Finance Division
 Tel: 0092-51-9206367                    Fax: 0092-51- 9214629                    Email: Iqminfin(dhotmail.com
 Contact Person: Mr Abdul Wajid Rana, Joint Secretary, Finance Division (External Finance & Policy)
 Tel: 0092-51-921 1971                   Fax:                                     Email: Awrana@lSb.Comsats.Net.Pk
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
    FY           2005         2006        2007      2008       2009            2010
   Annual       12.00         1 1.oo      10.00     12.00        8.00            2.00
Curnulati       12.00        23.00       33..OO     45.00      53.00            55.00
         ve
 Project implementation period: Five Years
 Expected effectiveness date: 0713012004        Expected closing date: 1113012009



Revised PAD Datasheet

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overarching goal o f the proposed Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) i s to improve
Government o f Pakistan's (GoPs) capacity to implement its on-going Economic Reformprogram. Focusing
on strategic areas, the project will have the following three distinct capacity buildingobjectives:
    (i)broad-basedprofessional development o fpublic sector officers;
    (ii)capacity enhancement in key ministriedagencies which are in the forefront of design,
    implementationandmonitoring o fpolicy reforms; and
    (iii)strengthening o f regulatory agencies.

Using an incremental approach, the project also aims to strengthen government capacity to facilitate
complementary broad-based civil service reforms (CSR). It is expected that the project initiatives will lead
to improvement inthe overall quality o fpolicy formulation, reform implementation, service delivery, and
human resource management o f the public sector.

This would be achieved through (i)high quality advanced and specialized training; (ii)accessing
international and local expertise and advisory services for capacity building; and (iii) procuring goods and
equipment to support capacity buildingo fparticipating agencies.

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
By their very nature, institutional and civil service reform outcomes and benefits are difficult to quantify
and measure. Nonetheless, several input, process and output indicators have been developed to help track
the success o f project interventions over the five year period. Different types o f performance indicators
have been identified for each o f the components o f the project and are reflected below (and also in
Annex-I).

0   Overall at an aggregateproject level:
        0    Approximately 250-300 civil servants including ex-cadre (grade 17-19 or equivalent) acquire
             Masters degrees in specific areas where capacity is lacking by 2009       --50 by 2006; 150 by
             2007; 250-300 by 2009;
        0    Around 200 civil servants including ex-cadre (grade 20-21 or equivalent) undertake executive
             short-term (6 weeks) training by 2009   -- 100by 2006; 200 by 2009;
        0    Completion o f technical studies and implementation o f capacity building programs, as per
             EntityImprovementPlans (EIPs).


0   For the first professional development component o f the project, primarily input indicators have been
    developed. The underlying assumption is that increasing inputs to buildcapacity in some specific areas
    will, over time, lead to better public sector performance. These indicators would broadly focus on
    number of public officials trained, hiring of core faculty for training institutions, and number of
    domestic training programs designed. Specific indicators include:
        0    Implementationo f PDev/EDP training programs;
        0    Core faculty for National School o f Public Policy (NSPP) recruited by 2006;
        0    Twinningrelationship o f NSPP with world class training institution established by 2006;
        0    Federal Public Service Commission's (FPSC) entry level CSS Competitive examination
             processreviewed by 2006;
        0    FPSC RestructuringReport completed by 2006.

0 With regard to the second component, capacity development of key agencies, predominantly process
  indicators have been developed for each of the participating agencies. The underlying assumption
  behind using these indicators is that changing some key processes, within the core government
  ministriedagencies serving cross-cutting functions, will lead to better performance. Specific process
  indicators for eachofthe participating agencies underthis componentinclude:
  (a) Ministry o f Finance(MoF):
      (i)DPCO:
      0   Debt PolicyCoordinationOffice functional by 2004;
      0   Preparation of Annual Debt Policy Statement by 2005, after approval of the fiscal
          responsibility bill; to be laidbefore the National Assembly;
      0   Formulation of an improved Fiscal Policy by 2005, after approval of the fiscal responsibility
          bill, to be laidbefore the NationalAssembly;
      0   Preparation and regular updating of an improved and comprehensive macro-economic
          framework.
      (ii)CorporateFinance:
      0   Regularmonitoring of SOEs financial position & balance sheet analysis, starting with at least
          2(WAPDA/!SC),          by 2005, and eventually expanding to the majority of            public
          corporate sector by 2008.
      (iii) Wing:
          Policy
      0   Monitoring and reporting (by posting on MOF website) of PRSP indicators on quarterly basis
          starting 2004;
      0   Preparationof Public ExpenditureReview starting 2005.
  (b) CBR:
      0   1 LTU in Lahore and 5 MTUs in Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar, Faisalabad and Rawalpindi
          operational by 2004;
      0   Sales Tax Automated RefundRepository (STARR), secondphase implementedby 2004;
      0   Customs Pilot Project, involving development & implementation of re-engineeredprocedures
          for clearance of imports and exports, implementedby 2004;
      0   Universal Self Assessment Schemeimplementedby 2004;
      0   7 Taxpayers Facilitation Centres establishedby 2004.
  (c) Ministryof Commerce (MoC):
      0   Legal Advisory Cell established by 2005 for expert advice and guidance to the business
          community;
      0   Data CelVDigital Library establishedby 2006;
      0   At least30-40 officials shall receivespecializedshort-termtraining by 2006.
  (d) EconomicAffairs Division(EAD):
      0   ImprovedMISto be implementedby 2005.
      0   At least40-45 middle-level staffreceive specializedtraining by 2007.
  (e) EstablishmentDivision (CSRU):
      0   A Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU) established within the Establishment Division and
          operationalby 2004;
      0   A technical study on compensation issues and options completedin conjunction with MoF by
          2005.
  (f) Planning& DevelopmentDivision(P&DD):
      0   Macro-model functional by 2005;
      0   Researchlibrarydigitized by 2005;
      0   First batch of 10 case studies completedby 2005;
      0   First batch of 39 officers receivespecializedshort-termtraining by 2005.


                                                    - 3 -

    (g) PakistanProcurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA):
       0    Public procurement rules to be finalized for notification by the Federal Government by 2004.
       0    At least 20 staffwill receive specialized training by 2008.

0   For the third component, focusing on strengthening capacity of the Regulatoiy Agencies, primarily
    output indicators have been proposed. The impact, thus, will be measured in terms o f sector-specific
    outputs. Some o f the output indicators for each o f the regulators include:
(a) NEPRA:
       0    Cost o f capital and cost o f service identifiedby 2006;
       0    Performance and environmental standardsnotified by 2005;
       0    Congestion costs for pricingdecisions identifiedby 2006;
       0    Framework for targettedand direct subsidies developed by 2005;
       0    Framework for direct sale by Generators to Bulk Power Consumers (Single Buyer        + model)
            adopted from 2004.
(b) OGRA:
       0    Framework for performance standards, competition, optimizing production and other
            operational aspects o f the oil & gas sector developed, by 2006;
        e   Technical/financial and other performance standards for the oil and gas sector developed and
            notified, by 2005;
        0   Framework and Rules for open access and common carrier regime in Pakistan prepared by
            2005.
(c) PTA:
        0   Award one LDIandat least three LL (fixedtelephony licenses) by 2004;
        0   Framework formulation for US0will be devised by 2005;
        0   Formulation o f Quality o f Service parameters for telecom services by 2005;
        0   Framework for determination o f interconnection charges on cost-based conventionby 2005;
        0   At least 45 staff will receive specialized training by 2008.

To further strengthen the linkage between the overall reform program and the agency/entity reform agenda,
concerted efforts have been made to align the above indicators with key PRSP indicators, through
consultation with the PRSC team.          The performance indicators will be regularly monitored by the
government, and assessedby the Bank team during supervision. Over the long haul, provided broad based
civil service reforms and professional skills development are continued, progress in these indicators are
expected to lead to the following CAS level outcomes:
    0   improved quality o f public sector reflectedinbetter design andimplementationo fpolicies;
    0   improved public expenditure management practices;
    e   improved regulatory functions;
    0   timely and effective monitoring and evaluationo fpublic expenditure andreformprogram etc.;
    0   Increased competition and private sector participation;
    0   Improvedpublic service delivery;
    0   More accountable public service.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24399-PAK Date of latestCAS discussion:June 24,2002

The proposed project is hlly consistent andwell-aligned with the overall CAS objectives. O fthe three main
pillars o f CAS, it specifically supports "strengthening macroeconomic stability and government



                                                      - 4 -

effectiveness". The goal o f improving government effectiveness at federal, provincial, district levels,
'remains at the heart o f the Bank's assistance strategy' and program priority. The project will support key
aspectso f civil service reform, focusing primarily on professional training o f civil servants.

The conceptualization and design o f the project has benefittedfrom the considerable amount o f analytical
work undertaken on the public sector, governance andCS reforms inPakistan and globally. Most recent
work, undertaken by the GoP andthe Bank, includes the following:
         Pakistan Public Expenditure Review (PPER): Strengthening the Civil Service, World Bank 2003a
         Pakistan Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), World Bank, 2003b
         Pakistan Development Policy Review: A New Dawn? (DPR),World Bank 2002
         Report of the Committee on Restructuring and Rightsizing of the Federal Ministries/Divisions
         (chaired by Dr. Shahid Amjad Chaudhry), Government o f Pakistan, April 2001
         Civil Service Reform, A Review of WorldBank Assistance, OED, World Bank, Aug 1999
         Report of the Commission on Administrative Restructuring on Re-engineering of the Federal
         Government Organizations (chaired by Dr. Hafiz Pasha), Government o f Pakistan, February 1999
         A Frameworkfor Civil Service Reform in Pakistan, World Bank, 1998
         The State in A Changing World,WDR, 1997

The CSR related work on Pakistan clearly acknowledges the deterioration o f the country's civil service over
time, hampering government's policymaking capacity, operational efficiency and public service
responsiveness. Inthe proposed project design, lessonshave beenincorporated from the latest OED review
o f Bank assistance in the area o f CSRs over the 1980-97 period. Based on its support for CSR in 32 client
countries, the Bank has identified three stylized forms o f 'bureaucratic dysfunction' which attempt to
'unbundle' the complex rubric of civil service reforms; they include: (i)  endemic overstaffing accompanied
by unsustainable wage bills; (ii) combination of misaligned organizational structures, poor human
                                      a
resources, and weakened administrative capacity to carry out core government functions; and (iii)
credibility and accountability o f state institutions because o f cumbersome rules, political interference and
cultures of nonperformance (World Bank 1999).

As part of GoP's evolving overall civil service reform vision, the proposed project supports the strategy of
improving government effectiveness, through increased professional human resource development and
enhanced capacity in key ministries and regulatory agencies. Using an incremental approach, the project
also aims to strengthen government capacity to facilitate other complementary institutional and broad-based
civil service reforms mentioned above. It is expected that the project will leadto substantial improvement in
the overall quality o fpolicyformulation, reform implementation, and human resource management.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
InPakistan, the capacity andquality ofpublic institutionshas been declining over time. Although the civil
service has pockets of excellence, collectively its performance leaves a lot to be desired. A quantum leap in
efficiency and management culture o f the government is needed if Pakistan has to accelerate and sustain
growth, reduce poverty, anticipate the opportunities and challenges o f the future, and enable its enterprising
citizens and private sector to realize their full potential andcompete ina fiercely competitive global market.
Successful implementation o f GOP's on-going reform program both at federal and provincial levels i s
                                                                    -                                      -
inseparably linkedwith the capacity o f government institutions andthe quality o f civil service (ICA, World
Bank 2003b).




                                                       - 5 -

I KeyAspectsofCivilServiceinPakistan
a) Structure: Total public sector employment is about 2.6 million, which is around 2 percent o f Pakistan's
population. Federal employment is about 32 percent o f total public employment reflecting the federal
character o f the government. Public sector employees are drawn from central superior services (CSS),
provincial civil services (PCS), professions (ex-cadre group), and administrative and support staff. The
distribution i s as follows:
    (i) CentralSuperior Services(CSS): CSSofficers(Grade 17-22)occupythebulkofpositions
        The
    responsible for implementation, policy making and policy analysis in the government machinery at the
    federal, provincial and district levels. Drawn from the 14 occupational groups o f the CSS, they serve
    across different ministries and attached departments at both federal and provincial levels. The 14
    occupational groups include: District Management (DMG); Office Management (OMG); Police;
    Secretariat; Customs & Excise; Income Tax; Commerce & Trade; Audits & Accounts; Foreign
    Service; Information; Economists; MilitaryLandand Cantonment; Postal; andRailways. DMG, Police
    and the Secretariat Group comprise the All Pakistan UnifiedGrades (APUG), whilst all other groups
    make up the Federal Unified Grades (FUG).

    CSS officers occupying middle to senior level positions in economic and policy making ministries in
    grades 17-22 are around 5,000 (excluding ex-cadre officers); o f these around 800 are serving in the
    provinces. Grade 17 is the entry level officer grade, andby the time the officer reachesgrade 21, he/she
    still has, on average, about 6-7 years o f service left.

    (ii) Provincial Civil Services (PCS): PCS officers (Grade 17-22) occupy positions at the provincialand
    district level, largely in administrative and field implementation. Grade 17 is also the entry level grade
    for PCS officers but promotions above grade 20 are less common compared to CSS officers.

    (iii) Professional level Ex-Cadre: Ex-Cadre group includes technical staff (e.g. statisticians, engineers
    and doctors etc.) working predominantly in attached departments (such as the Federal Bureau of
    Statistics (FBS), and autonomous bodies (Regulatory agencies such as the National Electric Power
    Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) and Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA)).                       There are
    approximately 19,000 ex-cadre officers working within the Federal Government.

    iv) Administrative and Support Staff (Grade 1-16): These staff work at administrative and support
    positions at the Federal and Provincial level. Staff in grades 1-11 are primarily support level; whereas
    those in grades 12-16 occupy technical positions in departments o f education, health, irrigation, etc.
    (such as teachers, health workers, etc.).

b) Recruitment: The CSS selection procedure is overseen by the Federal Public Services Commission
(FPSC), and comprises a written examination, a psychological test and an interview. The process is highly
competitive; around 8000-10,000 applications are received for a batch o f 170-175 positions every year.
The PCS selection procedure for each province is overseen by its Provincial Public Services Commission
(PPSC). It also comprises a competitive examination and interview process similar to the one used by the
FPSC. Ex-cadre officers (grade 17-22) are selectedby the FPSC at the federal level andby the PPSC at the
provincial level. Since ex-cadre positions are more area-specific, specialized degree holders are encouraged
to apply and the tests taken are geared to the requirements o f the position advertised. As for the
administrative and support group (grades 1    -16), respective ministries, departments and autonomous bodies
are given the power by the government to recruit people when required. They generally advertise posts or
call for nominations. Inmost cases, officers in grades 11-16 are selected after conducting written tests and
interviews o f applicants.


                                                       - 6 -

c) Career Management: Once recruited, the Establishment Division thereafter manages and monitors the
progress o f CSS officers throughout their service, including their placements, transfers, promotions and
career management. The Services & General Administration Departments in each province are the
managing agencies for PCS officers. Most officers usually stay in their stream for their entire career, but
may also rotate starting mid-career.

d) Training:
Pre-Service: Each CSS occupational stream receives pre-service training - ranging from 1-2 years -
dividedinto (a) general/ common training, at the Civil Services Academy (CSA), and later (b) specialized
training intheir area of expertise, at specialized training institutes (DMG; Police; Accounts; Customs etc.).
PCS officers are provided a one year pre-service training in their provincial training institutes. PCS
Executive officers, who serve at the district level, also receive specialized training at the Rural
Development Academy inPeshawar.

In-Service: This includes training at: (a) the four National Institutes of Public Administration (NIPA)- one
each in the four provincial capitals (Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta); and (b) the Pakistan
Administrative Staff College (PASC) inLahore, for both Federal (CSS) and Provincial (PCS) officers. The
thrust o f in-service training i s broad spectrum as a civil service officer i s expected to get rotated across
different ministries at the federal/provincial level and serve in wide-ranging areas o f specialization.
Training at NIPA is mandatory for promotion from grade 19 to 20; andat PASC for promotionfrom grade
20 to 21.

I1        Key Issuesinthe Civil Service

Basedon the analytical work undertakenon civil service reform (CSR) inPakistan, along with stakeholder
consultations, the followingkey issues have been identifiedthat constrain the government from assuming
new and more complex roles neededinthe context o fbroader structural reforms that are currently being
implemented:

(i) Weak Technicaland Managerial Skills: Thetechnical competenceofcivil servantshasbeendeclining
over the past couple o f decades. Human resource development in the public sector has not been given
adequate resources, leading to a steady erosion in capacity and technical skills o f civil servants. Estimates
made by the Committee on Civil Service Reforms indicate that during the last two decades annual
expenditures on civil service training have been less than 0.5 percent o f the compensation o f civil servants.
At the same time, the quality of Pakistan's higher education institutions has declined significantly,
resulting in an overall deterioration in quality of entry level civil servants. Mirroring the trend o f
underinvestment incivil service training, the higher education (inpublic sector) expenditure as a percentage
o f total education expenditure has declined from nearly 17% in 1987/88 to around 12% in 2001/02. This
introduces the burden o f redressing these inadequacies during pre-service and in-service training. Over
time, the quality o f the civil service training institutions - like the public sector universities - has
deteriorated. Most of the training programs within the civil service institutions are routine training on
government procedures and have become inappropriate for the task o f building a new development
management culture and a changed role o f the government as a facilitator and regulator. Majority o f civil
servants entering the service do not have advanced professional degrees; this, together with routine
in-service training, has led to poor professional skills capacity. At the same time, access to foreign training
has been very limited; the percentage o f officers in Grades 17-19 who have obtained foreign Masters
degrees (andabove) varies from 2% to 8%, depending on the occupational group (many acquiredthis under
the USAID overseas training program during the 1980s). Challenges in the present system o f higher


                                                       - 7 -

education and training in Pakistan range from weak faculty capacity to out-dated syllabi. Hence, the
successful transformation o f the public service, requires a paradigm shift in public service training
programs.

As a result o fthese weaknesses: (i) for policy work andmanagement is generally limited; (ii)
                                       capacity                                                              there
i s excessive reliance on foreigdlocal consultants for routine policy and implementation work, and even in
these situations, consultants' output is generally not effectively utilized either because o f inability to
understand andor ineffective management o f the work; and (iii)     approach to problem solving is narrow and
outdated as officers are unable to bring in cross-country experience and best-practice knowledge to
development challenges facing the country. The bulk o f officers are simply not trained for managing
Pakistan ina globalized world o f tomorrow or effectively administering the country's finite resources inthe
face o f increasing scarcity. Most o f the officers end up focusing on routine work only.

(ii) Recruitment, Promotion, Placements and Transfers Process
     Recruitment: As noted above, the recruitment in the civil service is overseen by the FederaWrovincial
     Public Service Commission (FPSC/PPSC). Although the examination process is rigorous and
     competitive, there are wide ranging issues/challenges in the system, such as outdated exam
     curriculdsyllabi, and inappropriate criteria for applying (for instance, minimumqualification for initial
     recruitment requires a Bachelors degree, equivalent to 14 years o f education). This, along with
     declining standards o f higher education, has directly affected the quality o f entry level civil servants.
     Promotion: Promotion policies depend on performance evaluation, seniority, performance during
     training, and the quality o f work experience. These criteria, nonetheless, are often perceived not to be
     fully adhered. According to some analysts, promotions are becoming more subjective, particularly, as
     the Central Selection Board reservesjudgment of what constitutes `merit' indifferent scenarios and in
     this way exercises considerable authority and autonomy in promotion matters. Additionally,
     promotions predominantly occur in vacancies in an occupational group, rather than vacancies in the
     departments officers are working in - which highlights the vertically separated nature o f occupational
     groups.
     Placements and Transfers: There are no systematic policies or mechanisms for placements and
     transfers. In many cases, the process o f placements/transfers lacks professional and technical basis,
     leading to a mismatch between skills and placement. An important issue inthe context o f placements is
     the de facto reservation o f certain posts for officers from the APUG (Le. DMG, Police and the
     Secretariat Groups). The distribution o f working positions in BS-17 to BS-22, in terms o f the total
     number o f civil servants belonging to the FUG and the APUG is skewed significantly in favour o f the
     APUG. The most striking feature o f the distribution is that as the number o f posts shrink with the
     upward movement o f pay scale, so does the proportion o f FUG. This de facto reservation emphasizes
     the fact that the occupational group an officer belongs to influences hidher career growth prospects, to
     a great extent.

(iii) `Bottom Heavy' Employment: While public sector employment in Pakistan may not be exceptionally
large in the inter-country comparison, it is certainly excessive in relation to its productivity and service
delivery performance (PPER, World Bank, 2003a). In addition, employment i s heavily skewed towards
lower grades (about 85 % o f the total public employees are in support level grades 1-11), reflecting the
productivity levels; around 10 % are ingrades 12-16 which occupy the bulk o f positions as teachers, health
workers etc; and only about 5% occupy grades 17-22 (i.e. middle-senior level policy analysts, and decision
makers).

(iv) Mismatch Between Skills & Compensation has become increasingly insufficient to attract managerial
and technical talent at the higher levels but may be too generous at lower levels. The salary compression


                                                        - 8 -

ratio is 1:lO. There is substantial evidence that the real compensation gap between public and private
salaries and emoluments has steadily increased. As an illustration, for the highest grade (BPS-22), the
nominal salary and monetav allowances have increased from Rs.3,000 per month in 1950 to Rs.38,000
per month at present, while consumer prices have risen thirty-fold over the period. Real total compensation
for the highest civil servants probably decreasedover the last half century by at least one-third. Meanwhile,
real incomes in the private sector have at least doubled reflectingthe general increaseinper capita incomes.
Lateral induction on fixed term contracts has recently been introduced (MP Grade System) to attract talent
from the private sector and academia (of the current batch o f 42 APUG, BS-22 officers, 19 were lateral
entrants at different levels).    The increasing use o f M P grades, originally meant for top managerial
positions in the public corporations and approximating more closely to private sector pay, to attract
managerial and technical skills to government indicates the inadequacy o f present levels o f compensation at
higher levels. Finally, the fact that there has been a historical decline o f the pay compression estimated at
1:46 in 1962, also indicates that lower level compensation has increased significantly over time while it has
increased slowly at the higher levels (PPER, World Bank, 2003a).

(v) Structural Rigidities: There are structural rigidities inthe federal and provincial administrations due to
strong vertical orientation o f the occupational groups. Lateral movement within cadres is rare. Inter-cadre
rivalries significantly determine the shape o f federal divisions and attached departments, as structures are
created to meet the needs o f the various groups and cadres for promotion opportunities rather than on the
                                                                                           -
basis o f policy priorities or operational needs (PPER, World Bank, 2003a).

(vi) Devolution: To help redress the problems resulting from an unresponsive and unaccountable civil
service, the government completed its first phase o f the devolution initiative by holding elections inAugust
2001. If the difficult step from political to fiscal decentralization can be made, and the requisite
implementation and monitoring capacity developed, the system has the potential to deliver better local
services (DPR, World Bank 2002).

I11       Government's Evolving Civil Service Reform Strategy

The overall aim o f GoP's civil service reform is to create a more qualified, innovative and efficient civil
service which is responsive to the needs o f the public, and professionally trained to adapt to changing
global and national challenges.

The Civil Service reform process was started in 1999 and has been going on under the overall supervision
o f the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service Reforms. Devolution, Police, Judicial, Tax Administration,
Public Financial Management and Procurement reforms have been launched. Several important policy
decisions on recruitment, promotion, posting, compensation andprofessional development have been taken.
To ensure meaningfulimplementationand deepenthe reforms, follow up activities are under review.

While several key structural reforms are on-going, given the complexity andpolitical economy issues,
implementationwill take time. The key initiated reforms are inthe following areas:

(i)Professional development
To address the weak technical and managerial skills gap in the civil service, the government's strategy
revolves around
    0     Supporting a broad based professional development program o f the civil service to upgrade their
          skill levels through advanced training. This program i s already underway in a number o f key
         economic management institutions, such as the SBP, the CBR, the AG, and the CGA. The
         government now intends to extend this further across the entire civil service (federal/provincial);


                                                      - 9 -

    0   Reforms o f domestic public sector training institutions. The government has recently embarked
        upon major reforms to revitalize and upgrade Pakistan's civil service training by: strengthening
        capacity of the training institutions; revising curricula; improving teaching methodology;
        building staff capacity; and improving connectivity within and among training institutes. The
        broad set o f initiatives that are currently underway include: (a) faculty upgrade through training o f
        key faculty (this includes sending a select group at leading intemational institutions, such as
        Harvard etc.), as well as hiring o f new faculty from the local and intemational market; (b)
        improving/ revising curricula o f the existing      training institutions (PASC, NIPAs, etc.) and
        introducing case study methodologies; and (c) facility upgrade o f PASC and other training
        institutions including IT connectivitity. In addition, the Government has recently announced
        establishment o f a National School o f Public Policy (NSPP). The ordinance for NSPP has already
        been passed and formal notification is expected soon. This new institution would merge the
        Pakistan Administrative Staff College and National Institute o f Public Administration Lahore. The
        school would would serve as the premier training institution for civil servants. It would work to
        improve curricula and content o f short courses offered to public officials and will become a
        degree-awarding institution inthe medium to long term.

(ii)    Recruitment reforms
In order to institutionalize merit based and transparent appointments ensuring de-politicization of civil
service, the Government has amended the Federal Public Service Commission (FPSC) Ordinance so as to
enhance FPSC's independence, increase its financial autonomy, extend its role in the recruitment o f public
servants, and limit and define the posts which are outside its purview. The enhanced role o f the FPSC has
been protected under law, rather than inrules. FPSC has reduced the maximum age limit for entry into the
govemment service from 30 to 28 years. The FPSC (Amendment) Ordinance 2000 which, inter-alia,
provides security o f tenure to FPSC members with no provision o f an extension ensures that the members
of the Commission exercisetheirjudgement without fear or favour.

(iii)   Promotion reforms
Following key measureshave been undertaken:
    0   To make evaluation o f officers more objective, the Performance Evaluation System has been
        revised. Underthis system, the evaluation is madejob specific, against pre-determined targets
        while grading is comparative;
    0   Inorder to improve career managementofofficers, a systemofmonitoring, appraisal and
        evaluation and computerization o f PERs has been developed inthe Establishment Division;
    0   An exercise for formulatingjob descriptions o fposts inthe Federal Secretariat hasbeeninitiatedto
        ensure posting o f officers on posts matching their experience, qualification and training;
    0   To ensure transparency inpromotion o f officers against selection posts (BS-19 and above), the
        Central Selection Board has been made broad-based andmore representative, andi s now chaired
        by the Chairman FPSC;
    0    Successfulcompletion o f mandatory 12 days concept/skill mix training o f the civil servants in
        BS-17, 18 and 19, at various civil service training institutions, i s linked to promotionto higher
        grades inBS-18,19 and 20.




                                                      - 10-

(iv)     Accountability and Clientfocus
In order to enforce accountability within due process of law and rules, a legal framework has been
developed to undertake an exercise to weed out in-efficient and corrupt government servants. A key
enactment includes Removal from Service (Special Powers) Ordinance, 2000. The exercise to review the
cases o f government officers who have ceased to be efficient and have completed 20 years o f service has
been initiated and 2165 cases have been recommended for compulsory retirement by the Review
Committee.

Under the new setup, the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), and other anti-corruption agencies inthe
federal and provincialgovernments, have become active. The federal, provincial and district Ombudsman's
Office, Police Complaint Authority and District Public Safety Commissions are playing an active role
towards redressal o fpublic grievances.

(v)      Pay and Pension Reforms
In 2000 the government established a Committee to review Pay and Benefits Reforms. The first phase of
the pay and pension reform scheme for the federal government's civil and military personnel was
implemented in late 2000 through (a) the revised pay scale; (b) the rationalization of pension benefits. All
federal civil services including the military have been provided the option o f accessing a new pay scale in
conjunction with revisions in pension benefits. The revised pay-scales restore about 75 % o f the lost
purchasing power of wages (which had not been increased since 1994), decompress the salary scale for
every grade and subsume all ad-hoc salary increasesobtained by some services between 1994-2000.

This pay and pension reform was complemented by a program to right-size the federal work-force which
was approved by the Cabinet inJune, 2001. As part o f the secondphase o f the pay and pension reforms, a
Special Relief Allowance @ 15% o f the basic pay p.m. to all the civilian employees in BS-1 to BS-22 o f
the Federal Government as well as the civilians paid from Defence Estimates, andto all the Armed Forces
Personnel/Civil Armed Forces Personnel, has been sanctioned and is effective from July 1, 2003. This has
improved compensation somewhat, but the wage structure remains severely compressed. The compression
ratio (from top to bottom salaries) is 1:10. It was 1:46 inthe 1960's. The higher echelons o f public servants
have significantly lower compensation than their comparators in the private sector. This in an important
issue under review.

(vi) Devolution
Devolution was launched in August 2001, through promulgation o f the comprehensive Local Government
Ordinance (LGO) in each o f the four provinces. Prior to the introduction o f the Devolutionplan, Pakistan
had a highlycentralized political andfiscal system dominated with elements o f patronage. The LGO clearly
defines the role o f three different tiers o f local government and spells out a fiscal framework, including
taxing authority. Drawing from the experience o f other countries, the LGO sets up a system o f financial
controls based on hard budget constraints and extends to the local government level the public financial
management and accountability systems that operate at the federal and provincial levels. The LGO also
prescribes additional systems o f checks andbalances to prevent capture o f the local governments by elites.
Local service delivery has been set to depend on the interplay between the District Councils and grass-root
Citizen Community Boards (CCBs) who will determine the allocations o f 50 percent o f total development
expenditure at the district level andbelow. On the political side, significant steps have been taken to ensure
broad representation. Seats are not only reserved for women but the quota system also extends to peasants,
workers andreligious minorities.

With more than one hundred thousand new councilors at different levels o f local government, training
programs for their new role are essential and form part of the kture agenda. With political decentralization


                                                      -11 -

launched, the next and more time-intensive step o f fiscal decentralization is under development. The
provinces, districts and NRB are jointly designing a system o f intergovemmental fiscal relations with a
view to secure transparency, to maintain hard local budget constraints and to give local governments the
opportunity to raise additional resources. A next key area o f reform will be the effective devolution o f the
civil service to District cadres. This is also under discussion. Finally, for effective devolution, the districts
soon need to do their own budget preparation andmanagement with appropriate mechanisms for provincial
monitoring starting with the next fiscal year 2004 budgets. Capacity build-up for this i s underway.

(vii) Governance reforms in key instititions
The Tax Administration Reform is the comerstone o f the economic reform program. In the absence o f
improved tax administsation leading to substantial increaseinrevenue, it will be impossible to exit the debt
trap and implement the poverty reduction strategy. It is envisioned that a modern tax system and broad
based taxes with improved tax collections through a modem and honest tax administration agency, will
reduce collection costs and the burden o f poor govemance on taxpayers. After a process o f consultations,
fundamental restructuring o f CBR has been launched aimed at significant changes in human resource
management, business processes and use o f technology.

Comprehensive reforms are also being implemented to have a modem public accounting and integrated
financial management system at the federal, provincial and district levels, to modemize the public audit
function and to establish more effective external oversight through Public Accounts Committees and public
access to information. The public accounting and audit functions have been separatedand the Office o f the
Controller General o f Accounts (CGA) was established. External oversight has been significantly
strengthened through the combined work o f the Auditor General and the functioning o f the federal Public
Accounts Committee (PAC). For the first time in years, the PAC i s now reviewing the actions o f a
government in office and is open to press.

To manage the implementation o f on-going reforms, and help catalyze the GoP's comprehensive civil
service reform strategy, a Civil Service Reform Unit(CSRU) i s being establishedwithin the Establishment
Division. The CSRU will report to the Establishment Secretary, although the implementation andon-going
evolution o f the strategy will be under the overall guidance o f the Cabinet Committeefor Civil Service
Reform. Specifically, the CSRU will support the following areas of civil service reform:

     Devolution: including completion o f devolution, developing consensuson additionalreforms and
     maintaining an active dialouge with counterparts;
     Recruitment and Promotion Reforms: focusing on modemizing the cadre system, reforming the system
     of occupational groups and merit protection;
     Pay andPension Reforms: providingsupport for deepening the pay andpension reforms;
     Professional Development: improvingthe quality o f training and professional development available to
     serving staff;                 c
     MonitoringandEvaluation: monitoring implementation o f already initiatedreforms, evaluating
     reforms, preparingreports and conducting tracer studies; and
     Coordination: serving as Secretariat for the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service Reform.




                                                      - 12-

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Pakistan's civil service, like that o f many other low-income countries, manifests the different forms of
'bureaucratic dysfunction.' Indeed, the problems o f poor human resources, weakened administrative
capacity, compressed pay scales, the excess o f unskilled lower level employees relative to senior staff, are
found inmany settings. However, some o f Pakistan's administrative reform challenges as discussedabove
are distinct - as are the opportunities that are available for addressing them. The government finds itself in
the fortuitous position o f having: some consensus on restructuring o f civil service; the fiscal space to afford
pay reforms; and a well developed but incomplete devolution agenda. By seizing the 'low-hanging fruits'
that these provide, government can set in motion some movement towards a longer-term reform agenda.
Other steps can be taken that will achieve short-term efficiency gains and send significant signals at no
political cost.

This project notes that there is little advantageinthe elaborate specification, ex ante, o f an ambitious set of
civil service reform proposals. Efforts are still on-going to develop an overall vision o f civil service
although selective changes in key areas are occurring on the ground. Part o f the CSR program -
particularly devolution agenda and restructuring o f occupational groups is still in flux, and requires much
                                                                            -
more preparatory work. Before these elements o f the CSR program can be finalized, consensus building
within the different levels o f the government (federal, provincial and districts) and across different
stakeholdersincivil society is needed.

The project's main strategic focus is on professional development and capacity building. Successful
implementation o f GOP's on-going reform program - both at federal and provincial levels             - i s highly
dependent on the capacity and quality o f civil service. Lack o f skills andcapacity ingovernment has been a
key recurring constraint that the Bank has identified in its structural adjustment support programs at both
federal and provincial levels (Sindh and NWFP). The project will also support        -  through analytical work
and stakeholder consensus-building       - the overall civil service reform, harnessing these opportunities
pragmatically.

The government's strategy for public sectorprofessional development is anchored on the following beliefs:
(i) 'championsofchange',attheseniorlevels,whowouldengenderreforms,leadtheprocessof
    Creating
policy formulation and implementation, and provide a nurturing environment for high quality work and
highlytrainedpeople.
(ii)Developing a 'critical mass' of internationally trained policy analysts, decision-makers and
implementors across key government ministries and departments through high quality training programs,
thus improving policy formulation and implementation. With several hundredhighly trained people inkey
policy and managerial positions, there will be a paradigm shift in the way the country is governed and
managed. At present, well-trained officers are too few innumber and far too dispersed, thereby preventing
the formation o f the 'critical mass' necessary to bringabout sustained change. This program is essentially a
deferred, long overdue investment, and would represent a 'catching up' process to address the backlog in
training. The government realizes that this 'big bang' approach is necessary for changing the exisiting
public sector systems and quality o f service. The government intends to pursue the above strategy as
follows:
    0    Focusing on predominantly overseastraining, inthe short-medium term, anddeveloping in-country
         training capacity, in the medium to long run. The rationale for overseas training is that at present,
         domestic public and most private sector education and training institutions do not meet the
         international standards for advanced degrees, and are not geared towards filling the needed skills
         gap, such as infusion o f new ideas, cutting edge knowledge and cross country experiences. The
         government recognizes that, generally those who have received quality training and education are



                                                      - 13-

        more supportive o f reforms. The proposed overseas training is expected to gradually reduce, in5-7
        years, as the public universities and in-service training institutions are strengthened (as explained
        below). This training program differs from past initiatives which were largely ad-hoc in nature,
        and so thinly spread out that the idea o f developing the critical mass o f change champions never
        materialized. The present program is expected to yield the desired results since it i s part o f the
        overall civil service reform program and it focuses on creating the "critical mass" to engender
        change andsustain quality.
   0    Ensuring merit-based selection in the overseas training program. As this will be a large public
        sector investment, the government's criteria for selection i s very rigorous and only those officers
        will be eligible who are:
            0    inthe top quantile;
                 below 37 years o f age and occupy middle level policy and managerial positions;
            0    able to obtain minimumscores on GRE/GMAT screening (prior to final selection);
                 once selected by meeting the above requirements, are able to get admission in one o f the
                 top 20, pre-selected, international universities, from USA, UK, Australia, Europe and
                 Singapore. (Admittance to the pre-selected top universities, by itself, would act as a high
                 quality filter); and
                 willing to serve the govemment for at least five years upon return (through the signing o f a
                 bond).
   0    Strengthening the 'bond' system to ensure return and retention o f trained officers. The government's
        existing system, whereby public officials going on overseas degree training are bound to serve for
        at least a minimumo f 5 years upontheir return or pay the full cost o f the training, is quite effective
        in ensuring that 'leakage' of trained officers is minimum. Recent examples of overseas training
        undertaken by some o f the key institutions (CBR, Auditor General, State Bank) indicate that most
        o f these officers (almost 90 %) have retumed and are serving in their respective departments.
        Nevertheless, the government is aiming to strengthen its "bond" system, over the short to medium
        term, by addressing loopholes in its implementation, such as deletion o f discretionary clauses and
        waivers, increasing the minimumserving period, andenhancing penalties for non-compliance. Over
        the long run, as the broader civil service reforms take hold, providing a more competitive public
        sector compensation and environment, the bond system could be made flexible to allow well
        trained, productive civil servants, the flexibility to move out (and also come back).

(iii)Strengtheningdomestic educationandtraininginstitutionsinthemediumtolongrunforproducing
professionally trained and technically competent public officials. This is envisaged to be achieved through:
   0    Reforms o f in-service and pre-service training capacity by restructuring o f existing training
        institutions, improving faculty and curricula, enhancing infrastructure and IT connectivity, as well
        as twinning with international institutions. This program is already underway in all o f the civil
        service training institutions, with an aim to establish the National School o f Public Policy (NSPP)
        inthe mediumto longterm; and
   0    Higher education reforms to fix the public sector education system-- the govemment has already
        embarked upon this program. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) has been set up as an
        autonomous body, through an ordinance, with the charter to facilitate development o f Pakistani
        universities to be world class centers o f education, research and development. The government has
        stimulated a national reform dialogue in higher education, combining representative views o f the
        public sector, private sector, civil society and academia in extensive consultations over several
        years. The reforms proposed for fixing the higher education system include: strengthening the
        governance and management capacity o f individual public institutions so that these institutions
        become more autonomous, transparent and accountable; and improving quality through enhancing
        faculty capacity, institutional capacity and encouraging a shift to performance based funding and


                                                     -14-

         tenure.

The sequencing o f the above strategy is critical. The broader civil service reforms will take time, so will the
reforms o f higher education and in-country training. Until that time, a 'big push' i s required to address the
backlog, as well as buildingthe critical mass o f well educated and reform-minded public officials who are
critically placed inthe civil service to makea significant change inthe existing system.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed costbreakdown):

A: Proiect Desim
Insupport o fthe government's CSR strategy, the focus ofthe proposedcapacity buildingproject will be on
the following three strategic areas :
(i) Broad-based professional development;
(ii)Strengthening capacity ofkey ministries/agencies that are inthe vanguardofpolicy reforms and
implementation;
(iii)Strengthening the regulatory agencies.

Specifically, the project will have the following three components :

(i)Professional Development
This component will address the capacity andtechnical skills gap inthe civil service, andwill largely focus
on the professional development o f federal and provincial civil service and ex-cadre officers. It will be
undertaken through the following:
         (al) Professional training program (degree and non-degree) for middle to senior levelofficers:
         Under this sub-component, the Establishment Divisionwill manage andimplement two training
         programs for civil servants:
                    an Executive Development Program (EDP) for senior (grade 20 and 21) civil servants to
                    create a community o f reformchampions inthe upper echelons o f the civil service;
               e    a Professional Development Program (PDev) for younger (grade 17-19) civil servantsto
                    significantly enhance their technical capabilities as policy analysts and implementors.
                    This program will be open to all federal, provincial, and ex-cadre officers.
           Total cost o f the above two programs is around US$ 17 million. Criteria for selection o f officers
           under the two programs is outlined inAnnex 2.

           (a2) Professional training program (degree and non-degree)for middle to senior level staff o f
           regulatory agencies. Under this component, the regulators will manage professional training
           programs for their officers. Staff will be sent on two types o f training programs:
               0    Degree-level programs
               0    Short-term trainings
           Criteria and process o f selection of officers, courses and programs will be in accordance with the
           EIPs o f the respective regulatory agencies.

           (b) Strengthening in-country training capacity through support of training institutions (CSA,
           NIPAs, PASC/ NSPP): This sub-component comprises up-gradation o f civil service training
           institutions including: building faculty capacity; improvinglrevising curricula; enhancing
           infrastructure and IT connectivity; twinning with international institutions; and support for
           establishment o f a National School o f Public Policy (NSPP). Total cost i s around US$ 5 million.



                                                       -15-

          (c) Improving the civil service recruitment process through support o f the Federal Public Service
          Commission (FPSC): Some key areas of support would include strengthening the entry level
          examination
          process including improving syllabi and system o f competitive examination, skills enhancement,
          and upgradation o f FPSC to an automated computerized environment. Total cost is around US$ 1
          million.

ii) Strengthening Economic Policy and Management:
The second project component will focus on capacity buildingof key federal andprovincialministries and
divisions that are in the vanguard o f design and implementation o f GOP's reform agenda. This will include
Finance, Central Board o f Revenue, Establishment Division, Commerce, etc.

        (a) Ministry o f Finance (MoF): The Project aims at building the capacity o f various wings and
        agencies o f the Ministryo f Finance dealing with policy formulation, budget, expenditure, financial
        and cash management. This is expected to help these wings and agencies of MoF to better
        discharge their functions, which will result inbetter formulation, coordination, implementation and
         evaluation of economic and fiscal policies of the Government. The Project will support an
         integrated medium-term program comprising: professional training o f staff (through degree - to be
         covered under PDev - and non-degree programs, short-term specialized training in areas such as
        pension reforms, debt management, public expenditure management, etc.); providing short- and
        medium-term consultants not only for undertaking specialized analytical work and policy reform
        programs, but also to provide hands-on training to MoF staff inthese critical areas; andto finance
         infrastructure and IT facilities.    Individual wings and agencies o f the MoF have prepared an
         integrated proposal, totaling around US$4 million. These include:
             0    Debt Management: Strengthening the newly established Debt Policy Coordination Office
                  (DPCO) to monitor the country's debt situation and develop debt strategy in consultation
                  with other agencies in order to bring it to a sustainable path and contribute to sustaining
                  fiscal and financial discipline.
                  Corporate Finance (CF), Banking and Investment Wings: Strengthening their monitoring
                  capacity to evaluate the performance and progress o f the key public sector enterprises;
                  privatization process, especially o f the state owned commercial banks; banking sector and
                  capital markets; and facilitate private sector participation in key areas.          Effective
                  management o f financial aspects o f state owned enterprises i s expected to lead to financial
                  discipline, reduction in subsidy and improved utilization o f resources.
                  External Finance Wing: Strengthening capacity in key areas o f extemal finance, external
                  debt management, balance o fpayment, trade, andmonetary policy.
                  Policy Wing: Strengthening capacity in policy-related areas related to fiscal analysis;
                  buildingexpertise in development of a macroeconomic framework and inthe formulation
                  o f a human development strategy, undertake Public Expenditure Reviews, formulate,
                  update and monitor Poverty Reduction Strategy including Poverty Reduction Support
                  Credit, assist the MoF in policy formulation and analysis in key areas, and overall
                  monitoring o f broad-based structural reforms.

         (b) Central Board o f Revenue: This sub-component is part of CBR's overall tax administration
         reform strategy, to be supported under a larger Tax Administration Reform Project, that is
         currently under preparation with Bank assistance through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In
         addition to preparation o f a comprehensive reform plan, CBR has also undertaken a few reform
         initiatives under the PPF including, establishment o f LargeMediumTax Payers Units, sales tax


                                                      -16-

STARR project, a customs pilot project and others. The PPF funds are already committed, andthe
largerprogram support may not be effective before the next 6-8 months. As it is critical to continue
with the short-term initiatives without delay so that the reform program does not lose its gained
momentum, it has been agreedto include some immediate reform initiatives under this project, and
bridge the financing gap while the larger program is being prepared. The initiatives proposed to be
supported under this sub-component include: extension o f the Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) andthe
Medium Taxpayer Unit (MTU), customs reform initiative, a central database for the automated
sales tax refund program, support for implementation o f the universal self assessment scheme,
human resource management and associatedtraining and staff development, and setting up dispute
resolution centers. Total cost o fUS$6 million is estimated.

(c) Ministryo f Commerce: to strengthen capacity o f the ministry to play an increased role intrade
promotion, coordination, facilitation and policy analysis in the emerging global environment. The
initiatives proposed include specialized training on trade and WTO related areas, analytical and
technical studies, and infrastructure and IT support. Total cost is aroundUS$2 million.

(d) Establishment Division: to strengthenthe capacity to managethe broader CSR program, a Civil
Service Reform     Unit (CSRU) will be established. Its charter will be to oversee GOP's
comprehensive civil service reform program. Specifically, it will support the following areas o f
civil service reform:
         Devolution: completion o f devolution, with responsibilities and staff assignments moved
         from the federal to the provincial level, and from the provincial to the district levels, with
         less   cross management o f        staff between      levels   o f government;      organizing
         seminars/workshops of provincial and national level stakeholders to develop consensus on
         additional reforms regarding restructuring, compensation issues and investment in
         professional development; maintaining an active dialogue with counterparts.
         Recruitment and Promotion Reforms: modernizing the cadre system and reforming the
         system o f occupational groups so that internal mobility within the public sector is
         increased, and lateral entry from the private sector for skilled staff i s encouraged, including
         the creation o f a national executive service or equivalent broad-based staff grouping at
         senior levels andstrengthening o f merit protection.
         Pay and Pension Reforms: providing support for deepening the Pay and Pension reforms
         (including monetization o f benefits) which provide for more attractive and more
         transparent packages o f total compensation at senior levels, within fiscal constraints.
         Professional Development: improving the quality o f training and professional development
         available to serving staff. This will include managing the Executive Development program
         (EDP) and Professional Development program (PDev).
         Monitoring and Evaluation: monitoring implementation o f already initiated governance,
         structural and policy reforms; maintaining updated databases o f civil service employment
         totals at all levels of government; developing appropriate human resource management
         information systems so that the federal, provincial and district governments are able to
         plan their human resource management on the basis o f actual staff and identified skills,
         and not just sanctioned positions; carrying out evaluation of reforms; generating periodic
         reports for submission to the Secretary, Establishment Division and the Cabinet
         Committee on Civil Services Reforms; and canyng out tracer studies for the returnees o f
         the EDP and PDev Programs
         Coordination: serving as Secretariat work for the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service
         Reform;    maintaining a close         liaison with    CSR units established in other
         MinistriesDivisions;     making concrete proposals for aligning donor initiatives              -

                                             -  17-

                 particularly between the ADB, WB and DfID.
        A total ofUS$2 millionwouldbeallocated to the CSRU.

        (e) Planning & Development Division (P&DD): Strengthening P&DD's capacity in areas o f
        economic planning. This involves capacity buildingto plan, design, appraise, implement, monitor
        and evaluate development plans, programs and projects. The allocated sum will also be used to
        strengthen project management practices besides preparing overall sectoral policies and planning
        framework over the mediumand long term. Total cost o f US$ 5.4 million is estimated.

        (f) Economic Affairs Division (EAD): to strengthen capacity in coordination and monitoring o f
        relationship with donors and donor funded projects. This entails development o f technical and
        managerial capacity o f the Division in the management o f loan portfolios, streamlining o f its
        procedures and operations and effective monitoring o f the donor funded projects.Tota1 estimated
        cost is US$ 1million.

        (g) Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA): strengthening the PPRA to monitor and
        regulate public procurement in the country through developing a modem transparent and cost
        effective public procurement system and putting in place an effective monitoring system. Total
        estimated cost is US$ 1million

        Note: Entities (h) to  0) mentioned below are in theprocess ofpreparing their EIPs;funds will be
        allocated once they arefully developed and reviewed;

        (h) Ministryof Water and Power: to support the initial institutional reform and capacity building
        needs inthe power sector.

        (i)Statistics(FBS): toenhancetheskillsandknowledgeoftechnical stafftoeffectivelymanage
        information collection and accurate reporting o f key country statistics, conducting various surveys
        including Pakistan Integrated Household Survey, Household Income andExpenditure Survey, their
        comprehensive analysis including poverty assessment methodology as well as effective and
        accurate collection o f information for national accounts.

        (`j)Provincial Finance andPlanning: to strengthen the provincial government's capacity inthe areas
        o f provincial reform formulation, implementation, evaluation and monitoring. The funds will also
        be used to improve budget, expenditure management, poverty expenditure monitoring and develop
        medium term budgetary framework planning, project design, and implementation at the Provincial
        as well as district levels and civil service reforms.

iii)    Strengtheningof Regulatory Function
The thirdcomponent will support capacity-building o f the Regulatory Agencies (National Electric & Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA),            Oil & Gas Development Authority (OGRA) and Pakistan
Telecommunication Authority (PTA). Specifically this component will support the following agencies:

    (a) NEPRA: to strengthen NEPRA's capacity to regulate the natural monopoly aspects of the electric
    power sector, develop a competitive structure for electric power generation and supply and ensure the
    reliability and adequate supply o f electric power. Skill development and development o f regulatory
    institutions are to be key areas o f focus. Total cost i s US$ 2 million.

    (b) OGRA: to strengthen OGRA's capacity to improve its ability to foster competition, encourage


                                                      - 1 8 -

    private investment and ownership in the sector and deal with challenges arising from the proposed
    restructuring of the gas sector. Total cost estimatedaroundUS$ 2 million.

    (c) PTA: To strengthen capacity to regulate the telecommunications sector and implement the telecom
    deregulationpolicy which will open all market segments within the industry to private investors.Total
    cost estimatedUS$ 1.6 million.

The total cost of the project is estimatedto be US$ 61 million. Of this, about 61% i s for training; around
22% for consultancies (16% for institutional development and 6% for specific studies predominantly for
the regulatory agencies andMoC) and 15% is for procurementofgoods andservices.




 A: ProfessionalDevelopment:                                                   37.7        21.06         38.3
     (a) EDP/PDev:       US$ 17 m
     (b) NSPP:            US$5 m
     (c) FPSC:           US$ 1m
  B:Economicpolicy & management                                  21.40         35.1         18.76        34.1
     (a) Finance:          US$4m
     (b) CBR:              US$6 m
     (c) Commerce:         US$2 m
     (d) Estab./CSRU:      US$2m
     (e)P&DD:              US$ 5.4 m
     (f)EAD:               US$ lm
     (g) PPRA:             US$ lm
 C: Regulatoryagencies                                            5.60          9.2          5.28         9.6
     (a) NEPRA: US$2 m
     (b) OGRA:       US$2 m
     (c) PTA:       US$ 1.6 m
  D:Unallocated                                                  11.00         18.0          9.90        18.0
     (a) Ministry of Water & Power (MoW&P)
     (b) Statistics(FBS);
     (c) Provincial Finance/Planning;
         Others (unidentified)
                                            Total Project Costs  61.00         100.0        55.00       100.0
                                   Total FinancingRequired       61.00         100.0        55.00       100.0

Retroactivefinancingto the extent of US$ 5 million equivalenthas been included for various project preparation
and start-up expenditures incurredafter August 31,2003.




                                                     -19-

                                      Table: Project Cost by Category

             Category                     Total Cost- US$ Million                      YOof Total
A: Training                                          37.5                                 61%
B: Consultancy                                        13.5                                22%
          i.InstitutionalDevelopment                  9.5                                  16%
                            ii.Studies                 4                                   6%
C: GoodsNlTorks                                        9                                   15%
D.Other-Miscellaneous                                  1                                   2%
    TOTAL PROJECTCOST                                  61                                 100%


B: Proiect Readiness:

Of the total proposed US$ 61 million, nearly 80% is clearly defined, with sub-components filly developed
and costed and strong leadership in place for implementation. These components have already been
appraised. About 10% are preliminary proposals from a few agencies (MoW&P, Statistics) that are under
different stages o f preparation and are expected to be ready within the next 8-12 months. The remaining
10% i s `un-allocated' and will be available, on a demand-driven basis, to new agency proposals which,
during the 5 years of project implementation, will meet the criteria for inclusion. The status o freadinessof
the various components ispresentedbelow:

    (a) Professional    development:     The key components of this program; Le. the Professional
    Development and Executive Development Programs (PDev & EDP), are clearly defined and are at a
    stage where the government can begin the process o f selection o f officers for degree and non-degree
    programs. Key actions already taken include (i)     selection criteria for candidates has been established;
    (ii) areasfordegreeprogramsidentified; (iii)preliminarylistofuniversitieshasbeendrawn;
        broad                                              a
    and (iv) estimated program costs have been worked out. Inaddition, steps have been initiated (such as
    hiring of international faculty) to strengthen in-country civil service training institutions' capacity
    (NIPAsPASC), as well as improving the civil service recruitment process and system (FPSC). The
    estimated cost o f this program is US$ 23 million. Details o f individualproposals are attached inAnnex
    2.

     (b) Regulatory agencies: This component is also filly developed. The capacity buildingneedsfor the
    first phase o f the regulatory agencies' program ( N E P W O G W P T A ) have been identified, and the
    scope o f work/TORs for analytical workhechnical studies have been developed. Specifically:
        0    NEPRA has prepared clear proposals with respect to the various elements o f the requested
             package. These are consistent and appear to address the underlying capacity issues that the
             regulatory agency is facing. A procurement plan has been prepared to ensure prompt delivery
             o f the required services. This coupled with the internal procurement resources o f the agency
             should ensure a rapid utilization o fthe project funds.
             Total estimated cost is US$ 2 million.
        0    OGRA's proposal comprises o f activities related to analytical work, and training o f its
             members and professional staff. Detailed procurement plans and TORShave been developed
             for hiring individual consultants and for undertaking the key studies. Total estimated cost is
             US$ 2 million.
        0    Assistance to PTA i s estimated at about $1.6 million consisting o f the following: (a)
             educatiodtraining for capacity building, and (b) consultantladvisory services. O f the total,


                                                     - 20 -

         about a third o f this program, comprising short term training and the consultancies, will be
         ready for implementationduringthe first year.
Total estimated cost o f this component is US$ 5.6 million.

(c) Strengthening economic policy & management: Most o f the key government ministrieslagencies
that are part o f this component have clearly definedcapacity buildingprograms. Specifically:
        The Central Board of Revenue (CBR) has a well developed program with detailed costs
         worked out, along with timelines for procurement o f goodslworks and consultancies prepared.
         A contract for designand refurbishment o fthe LTU, MTU, CARE pilot, Taxpayer Facilitation
         Centers and Dispute Resolution Center has already been awarded under Bank procurement
         procedures and will be financed retroactively. For the remaining contracts its is expected that
         shortlisting o f firms andRFP issuancewill be completed by negotiation;
         Proposals from Ministry of Finance (Debt Management, Corporate Finance, Policy Wing)
         are also well developed andhave been appraised. The costs have been brought down, from an
         initial US $ 8 million to US $ 4 million, in line with the implementation capacity o f the MoF.
         TORs for key consultancies andprocurement plans have been completed;
         Proposal o f Establishment Division for setting up o f the CSRU is developed, along with its
         TORSand staffing needs. The head of the CSRU has been appointed. Work has been initiated
         including drafting o f TORs, etc., for some o f the technical studies to be undertaken inthe first
         year. This component is also ready to rollout as soon as project becomes effective
         Planning & Development Division's (P&DD) capacity building proposal comprises:
         strengthening o f its planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; improving macro modeling
         and buildingup research facilities; skills development; strengthening o f the Pakistan Planning
         and Management Institute (PPMI); etc. The proposal is well developed and consistent with
         overall project objectives with strong leadership inplace for implementation. The Commission
         has a fairly well developed procurement plan for the entire duration o f the project and have
         drafted TORs for main consultancies
         Ministry of Commerce (MOC) is committed to strengthen and enhance its capacity to play an
         increased role in the emerging global environment. The initiatives proposed in this regards are
         a first step toward the requiredreorganization and restructuring o f MOC. The MOC has now
         submitted a revised capacity building proposal- as agreed during appraisal- which is well
         developed and consistent with project objectives. Since the TORs for the consultancies would
         be taken up as part o f the institutional restructuring exercise, the targetted timeframe for the
         consultancies would be inthe secondyear o f the project;
         Economic Affairs Division (EAD) i s seeking assistance to enhance its capacity to coordinate
         and negotiate government's loan portfolio with donors and liason with government and donor
         agencies for smooth implementation.         The proposal comprises specialized training and
         managerial skills enhancement in the above noted areas, and improvements in database
         management and information systems. The proposal has been revised in line with EAD's
         implementationcapacity. Therefore, EADhas been included inthe 'allocated' category;
         Public Procurement Regulatory Authority's (PPRA) proposal comprises specialized training
         and skills enhancement in procurement related areas and improvements in its management
         informations systems. PPRA has already drafted public procurement rules          - -a preliminary
         review has been undertaken, and the proposed rules found satisfactory. Given that the agency
         is well advanced in finalizing the rules, it has been agreed to include PPRA under the
         'allocated' category o f the project.
Total estimated cost ofthis component is US$ 21.4 million




                                                 -21 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:
Public Sector's capacity enhancement through high quality training programs (domestic and foreign)
coupled with specialized consultant support for technicaYanalytica1 work would result in significant
improvement in the overall quality o f policy formulation, public service delivery, and human resource
management. Analytical work in support of broader Civil Service Reforms under the aegis o f the Civil
Service ReformUnit (CSRU) will enablethe government to accelerate implementation inareas such as pay
& pension reforms, promotion policies, recruitment policies, etc. A major institutional outcome sought is
the development and enhancement of domestic public sector training capacity through upgradation of the
civil service training institutions (NIPAs/PASCletc.) and eventually leading towards establishment o f the
National School o f Public Policy (NSPP); the NSPP, inthe mediumto longer run, will serve as a premier
public sector training institution for the civil servants o f the country. Regulatory agencies' capacity will be
enhanced which will result in a redefined role o f the government as a facilitator, and will improve
transparency inregulatory policy decisions, leading to greater investor confidence and contributing towards
acceleratedreforms andprivatization. Finally, key economic ministries, who are inthe forefront o f design
and implementation of reforms, will be strengthened, thus ensuring that on-going reforms are effectively
implementedandfuture reforms are adequatelydesigned.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
  The target group comprises:
     (a) Grade 17 to 21civil service officers (federal; provincial) plusprofessional level ex-cadre officers;
     (b) Key federal ministries including Finance, Planning, CBR, Commerce, Establishment, andsome key
     provincial economic ministries etc.
     (c) Key regulatory agencies, including NEPRA, OGRA and PTA.

Benefits:

The project is expected to yield significant benefits to the public sector, in the medium to long term.
Broad-based professional development would result in buildinga 'critical mass' o f reform champions and
significant improvement o f the technical skills at all levels o f the government. With over 500 persons
trained, each key ministrylagency would have a critical number o f trained personnel which will engender a
demand for quality within service. This, coupled with enhancement o f domestic recruitment and training
institutions, would lead to raising the overall quality o f policy formulation, public service delivery, and
humanresource management. Further, capacity buildingof key economic ministries and departmentswill
support more effective and timely implementation o f GOP's reform program, along with more innovative
design of future reforms. Capacity building o f regulatory institutions would contribute to improved
tariff-decisions, andbalancingo f the interests o f different stake-holders.

The overall benefits and impact of the project are expected to continue beyond the project. The
strengthening o f domestic public sector training institutions (including establishment o f NSPP) will
substantiallly improve the quality o f public sector training and education over the medium to long run.
Similarly, strengthening o f key institutions, such as the FPSC/Establishment Division will enhancethe civil
service entry/recruitment, and placement processes. Most importantly, the work under the CSRU will
facilitate implementation o f the overall civil service reforms. Over the long haul, the aggregate benefits of
this project are expected to be substantial, provided broad-based civil service reforms and professional
skills development continues.




                                                      - 22 -

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
In order to streamline project implementation, the following implementation arrangements are being
envisaged by the Government.

A National Steering and Coordination Committee (NSCC) comprising Secretaries of Finance,
Establishment, Economic Affairs, and Planning Division plus one independent academic (or a key civil
society representative), will oversee implementation o f the project and review new proposals for inclusion
inthe program. Specifically, the NSCC willperformthe following functions:
   0    Overall monitoring o f the project, including a comprehensive mid-term review o f the entire
        program;
   0    Reviewinghettingo f new capacity buildingproposals, from the `un-allocated' portion o f the credit;
        and
   0    Reviewinghettingof re-allocation among sub-projects o f the un-utilized funds.

The project will be implemented by the Finance Division (FD). A small facilitation and coordination unit
has been established in the FD, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Coordinator
(PC), which will include two professionals (one Procurement Specialist & one Finance Manager) and two
accounting assistants (accounts officer and assistant accounts officer). The PCU would report to the
Additional Secretary, Ministryo f Finance (Policy Wing) and would be responsible for:
   0    facilitating the participatingagencieswith procurement andfinancial management processing
        issues;
   0    assisting agencieswith preparation o f new proposals, in line with the overall project development
        objectives;
   0    acting as a secretariat for the National Steering h Coordination Committee (NSCC);
   0    preparing quarterly project progress reports for the NSCC andthe Bank.

As for the mechanism for flow of funds, Finance will maintain a special account. There shall be 5 other
implementing entities (Establishment Division, Planning & Development Division (P&DD) NEPRA,
OGRA & PTA) which will each have their own Special Account and accounting staff to manage the
accounting and reporting processes.The special account to be maintained by the PCU at the FD shall cater
for the funding needs o f the other agencieslministries which do not have special accounts (such as EAD,
Commerce, CBR, etc.).

Each agency would be responsible for its own procurement (such as goods, consultants, works). The
procurement specialists in the PCU would assist the individual agencies under the project in carrying out
procurement (such as preparing bidding documents contract award), but the financial management would
be carried out by the individual implementinghub-implementingagencies managing the special accounts.
Each agency operating as a beneficiary in an implementinglsub-implementing entity will assign a focal
person for procurement and financial management. Contracts would be finalized and signed by the
individual agencies.

Three assignment accounts would be opened at the Finance, Planning, and Establishment Divisions for
payment o f counterpart funding. Regulators would use their existing accounts for payment o f counterpart
funds. Thedetailedfinancial management assessment isprovided in Annex 6B.

 Goods and works under the Project will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
 Guidelines, and Consultants' services in accordance with the Consultants' Guidelines. Theprocurement
 capacity assessment and applicableprocurement procedures areprovided in Annex 6A.


                                                    - 23 -

    An umbrella PC-1 has been prepared (by the PCU) which includes individual components and an
    un-allocated amount. Individual components will be managedandexecuted entirely by respective ministries
    and agencies.

    Approval Processfor New Proposals
    The criteriafor allowing new agency proposals would include:
         (i) alignmenttoprojectobjectivesandwiththeagency'soverallstrategicvisiodplan;
            full
         (ii) entityimprovementplan(EIP)alongwithindicatorsformonitoringprogressoftheinstitutional
             an
         strengthening program;
         (iii) definedproposalswithtimelinesofactivitiesandfullycostedcomponents;and
             clearly
         (v) agencieshaving their first year's programready for implementation.

Interested agencieslministries would prepare their capacity building proposals along with an Entity
Improvement Plan (EIP) in consultation with the PCU/PC. These EIPs would be prepared in line with agreed
criteria (as noted above) and will be shared with the Bank for review before submission to the NSCC through
their respective SecretariedAgency heads. The proposals would then be submitted to the NSCC for
consideration and approval. Once approved, the individual PC-1s would then be submitted to the Planning
Commission for CDWP approval. Following the CDWP approval, PCUPC will allocate resources from the
un-allocated amount to the new participating agency.

    D. Project Rationale
    1. Projectalternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection:
    The proposed project is aimed at broad-based capacity building and the alternatives considered are
    essentially about options and balance. Specifically:

    (i) Consultancy vs. Training: Inthe past, hundreds o f millions o f dollors have been spent on consultancy
    support inPakistan without any real benefits to society. Traditionally capacity buildingprojects are heavily
    dependent on external consultants who fly-in for short periods, provide immediate technical and analytical
    support, and leave without establishing any in-house or residual capacity in the system. Further, as the
    capacity within the government institutions is weak, they are unable to utilize the consultants effectively.
    As a result there has been a huge backlash, within government and civil society, against reliance on
    consultants. This project addresses the above issues: by focusing on developing local capacity through
    training and professional development    -- around 60-70% o f project funds will be channelled towards this
    component; and providing very limited and focused consultant support, mainly for highly technical and
    specialized analytical work to be undertaken by key agencies, such as the Regulatory agencies and
    Ministries ofFinance, Commerce, Information Technology etc.

    (ii)Domestic vs.Foreign Training: Theoptionofpredominantlyusingdomesticmodesoftraining for
    professional development was considered and rejected due to the fact that, at present, the quality and
    capacity of domestic training institutions is weak (as highlighted earlier). The aim is to address andbridge
    the skills gap that currently exists in the middle-level civil servants who occupy bulk o f policy
    levevmanagerial positions. This could only be achieved through exposing them to world class/ top notch
    institutions so as to inculcate new ideas, cutting edge knowledge, and cross country experiences. These
    officers are expected to form the 'critical mass' within the civil service andare expected to lead the reforms.
    The government recognizes that, generally those who have been trained overseas are more supportive o f
    reforms, and perform better interms o fpolicy analysis andimplementation. Inthe Bank's own work across



                                                         - 24 -

different agencies, this linkage between advanced professional training and quality o f civil servants is very
evident. Not withstanding the above, the project will, in parallel, focus on strengthening domestic training
institutions, with the aim o f bringing them in line with international standards. Thus, foreign training is
expected to reduce over time (over 5-7 years), as domestic training institutions are strengthened.

(iii) of ProjectandTargetPopulation:Therewasawidediscussionaboutthescopeofthisproject
     Scope
and the target population i.e. (i) should be included: whether all or selected agencies; (ii)
                                   who                                                                distribution
between federal and provincial civil servants; inclusion or exclusion o f provincial ministries etc. Also,
under consideration was complexity in project design. Balancing the various factors, the project is
optimally targetted at those agencies and officers whose capacity buildingwill produce a positive impact to
the existing system. These include: civil servants at middle-senior level (federal/provincial) occupying bulk
o f key managerial and policy level positions (about 500-600); key economic management and regulatory
agencies (8-10); andkey domestic public sector training institutions (3-5). All project activities compliment
each other i.e. professional training o f middle-senior level civil servants, who are in the fore-front o f
economic management and implementation, will create a 'critical mass' in the system which will, in tum,
lead to improved design and implementation o f future policies. As the domestic training capacity is
enhanced, the size o f this 'critical mass' will fiirther increase. Over the long haul, there will be a large pool
of professionally competent, well- trained public officials, thus improving the overall quality of public
sector delivery.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned).
WORLD BANK
ClosedProjects
Indonesia: Professional Human Resource Development Project: The most relevant projects financed by
the Bank in the area o f professional development are the two projects undertaken in Indonesia during the
1990s, namely the Professional Human Resource Development Project (PHRDP-I & PHRDP-11), funded
through IBRD Loans. Total Bank commitment under PHRD-I was US$ 116 million; and PHRD-I1 was
US$ 70 million. The objectives o f PHRDP-I were to improve human resource policy making; and quality
o f professional, technical and managerial staff. One o f the major components o f this project was
professional and managerial staff development, which included overseas training and fellowship programs.
More than 75% o f project costs went into overseas training (largely indegree programs); over 2,500 staff
were sent abroad for degree and non-degree training, largely to U S universities. These programs effectively
served as a source o f high level professional and mangerial manpower. The project was immediately
succeededby PHRDP-11. Evaluation o f this program indicated that there was almost no "brain drain" and
the success rate o f fellowship participants was very high; the training made positive impacts on each
ministry in terms o f the returnees' contribution towards implementation o f the country's development
strategy.
Pakistan: TechnicalAssistance Credit-I & 11& 111: The objectives of the technical assistancecredits were
primarily to support Government's efforts on policy reforms related to macro-economy, and in industry,
energy, agriculture, transport and urban sectors. These projects were designed to finance specialized studies
inthe above areas, mostly through consultant support. There was some limitedtraining providedunder the
TA-111, whereby few of the Auditor General's Department staff were sent abroad for training. Support
under this component further led to a bigger project for the Auditor General (described below). Although
the TAs were assessedas satisfactory inmeeting the desired project objectives o fpolicy reforms, they were
largely consultant focused, and didnot have a lasting impact on in-house capacity. Inparticular, the TA-I11
while most successful in achieving its macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, only achieved partial sucsess


                                                        - 25 -

inenhancing policy formulation and implementation capacity ofthe government. The latter was attributed,
to some extent, to cumbersone and inflexible rules and procedures governing the implementation o f the
TA-111.
Pakistan: Telecommunications Regulation and Privatisation Support Project: The objectives o fthe
Project was to assist the government in(a) implementing the program of reforms and efficient development
o f the Pakistan telecommunication sectorby implementinga suitable regulatory framework for bothprivate
and public telecommunication operators and the efficient allocation anduse o f the radio spectrum; (b)
assist inestablishing Pakistan Telecommunications Authority (PTA)and Frquency AllocationBoard
(FAB);(c) AssistingPTA inbuildingcapacity for and inpromoting competitioninthe provision of
telecommunications services andincreasing private sector participation; (d) Supporting FAJ3 inefficient
management and allocation of radio frequency spectrum for public andprivate use; (e) Supporting PTCL
privatization process. The project has been implementedsatisfactorily, achieving most o f its objectives. It
closed on June 30,2003. An important outcome i s adoption o f a positive Telecommunications
Liberalisation Policy. PTA i s responsible for implementing this policy and has requested the Bank's
further asistanceunderthe proposedPublic Sector Capacity BuildingProject.

OngoingProjectsinPakistan
The on-going capacity buildingprograms undertaken by some o fthe key economic management agencies,
such as the Central Board o f Revenue, AudiUAccounting Departments and the State Bank o f Pakistan,
have so far been successfulinyielding immediate benefits to these organizations (most o f these reforms are
beingsupported under Bank projects--PIFRA, Banking Sector TA) .
The Project for Improvement inFinancialReporting and Auditing(PIFRA) has beensuccessful inbuilding
capacity o f the staff o f the Auditor General and Controller General o f Accounts, to better align their
practices with international accounting and auditing standards. Under a component o f this project, about
sixty staff have undertaken professional training abroad and within the country (Masters and above) in the
areas o f Finance and Accounting. Over 90% o f these officers have returned and are serving in their
respective departments. Of these, about 15% are women. A second phase o f this project is under
preparation which aims to deepen and broaden the financial management reforms, and extend the capacity
building initiatives by upgrading government financial processes and systems with rigorous internal
controls and fully trained and qualified staff.
The Central Board o f Revenue (CBR), as part o f its restructuring and reforms process, has sent [over 70
officers abroad to be confirmed] during the last five years for specialized training. Of these, 90% have
returned and are being utilized in the CBR. The Bank is currently working with CBR to prepare a US$
100-150 million Tax Administration Reformproject. This project will include, among other things, major
institutional and capacity building component; some o f these initiatives are already being financed under
the proposed "Public Sector Capacity BuildingProject".
The State Bank of Pakistan is also undergoingmajor systems andskills improvement o f its staff. The Bank
has extended its support through (i)  Financial Sector Deepening -TA project, which closed in FYO1; and
(ii) on-goingBankingSectorTechnicalAssistanceproject.
     the

ADB and DFID

ClosedProjects

Pakistan: Fiscal Decentralization Technical Assistance: This ADB-DFID co-financed TA comprised of:
three main components: revenue management, expenditure management and training in Pakistan. The



                                                   - 26 -

output o f the TA provided critical inputs for the Decentralization Support Program (DSP) described below.

Pakistan: Technical Assistance for Support to the Implementation of Decentralization: The primary
objective o f this ADB TA was to provide interim support to the Government's implementation o f
decentralization reforms. Its main components included assisting implementation agencies and supporting
the monitoring andevaluation systemfor decentralization.

On GoingProjects

Pakistan: Decentralization Support Program: The broad program objective is improved local government
representation, accountability, and efficiency resultingin improved service delivery. This objective will be
achieved through reforms inthree main areas; a) policies, laws and regulation; b) institutional strengthening
and capacity buildingand; c) fiscal restructuringandbudgetary measures. Key federal, provincial and local
government institutions come under the purview of the project.

Pakistan: Local Government Performance Enhancement Technical Assistance: This TA loan is aimed at
assisting federal, provincial and local implementing agencies to build capacities in core planning, finance
management, procurement andaudit functions necessaryfor efficient and equitable service delivery.




                                                    - 27 -

CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA)

OngoingProjects
Pakistan: Democratic Governance Program: This program aims to support processes leading to the
devolution o f power, the decentralization o f administration and the participation o f citizens in local
govemance. Funds are being allocated to activities in cooperation with organizations such as DFID,
NORAD etc. Expected results include improved local govemance policies and administration and more
effective local democratic institutions.

                                                                                 Latest Si iervision
               Sector Issue                            Project
                                                                            (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                                                    (PSR)    atings

                                                                            Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)

Accounts andAuditing                       PIFRA-I (CreditCR2921-PAK)             S                 S
Development Planning, Energy,              Technical Assistance Project
Agriculture and Industry                   (CreditCR1256-PAK)
Development Planning, Energy,              2nd Technical Assistance
Agriculture and Industry                   Project (CreditCR1480-PAK)
Development Planning, Energy,              3rd Technical Assistance
Agriculture and Industry                   Project (CreditCR1755-PAK)
Banking                                    Financial Sector Deepening and         S                 S
                                           Intermediation
                                           (LoanLN3808-PAK)
Banking                                    BankingSectorTechnical                  S                S
                                           Assistance
                                           (CreditCR3688-PAK)
Public Sector Capacity Building            Professional HumanResource              S                S
                                           Development Project
                                           (LoanLN3 134-IND)
Public Sector Capacity Building            SecondProfessional Human                S                S
                                           ResourceDevelopmentProject
                                           (LoanLN3825-IND)
Telecom                                    Telecom Regulationand                   S                S
                                           Privatisation (Loan
                                           LN39500-PAK)
Other developmentagencies
                                          I
P/DO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), k (Highly Unsatis tctory)

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:
The key lessons from similar projects inPakistan, Indonesia, Eritrea and from experience world-wide with
public sector institutional reforms include:
    i)TherulesandproceduresgovemingtheimplementationofTA operationsshouldbesimple and
    streamlined to reduce transaction cost and speedy implementation;
    ii)Foreffectivemanagementofany TA project, ProjectDirector shouldhavegreaterauthority to
    decide on most matters relating to the award o f contracts for studies, disbursements and other
    administrative matters;
    iii)AkeyrecommendationoftheICRofthePKTA-111,regardingdesignoffutureTAsunderlinedthat


                                                    - 28 -

    focus should be on economic reform issues, in particular building capacity o f key economic agencies
    like MOF, EADand Planning Division;
    iv) Excessive complexity in terms of institutional participation should be avoided. In addition, it is
    important that all complementary institutions are directly or indirectly included as participants and
    beneficiaries. Without this, sustainable gains ininstitutional capabilities are not achieved;
    v) Sustainable capacity building requires that broader civil service reform issues (incentive,
    compensation, etc.) be addressedand that consensus buildingamong stakeholders should be undetaken.
    This is important in order to sustain the benefits to the organizational capacity through investments in
    training andeducation;
    vi) Consultants for short term analytical support should be minimized, and staff trainindeducation
    maximized ifsustainable institutional capacity i s the desiredgoal.

While designing the project, the team tried to incorporate the above lessons. Focus o f the project is only on
key government agencies including complementary institutions (NSPP; Regulators). Analytical work in
support o f overall civil service reforms is being supported through the establishment o f the Civil Service
Reform unit. The size o f the direct target population i s sufficiently large to form a critical mass so that it
can perform a catalytic role and leverage benefits to the indirect beneficiaries o f this project. The focus o f
the proposed project i s on sustainability through maximization o f investment in staff trainindeducation,
using a combination of foreign (declining importance over the project disbursementperiod) and domestic
(increasing role over project life) educational and training institutions.

4. Indications of borrower commitmentandownership:
The interest elicited in the proposed capacity building facility so far by the government and the respective
ministries, divisions and agenciesrepresentssubstantial commitment. The proposed project builds on nearly
one and a half years o f dialogue between the government and the Bank. The components that will be
supported under the project are central to the success o f the implementation o f the broad Economic Policy
Reforms that the GOP has already initiated. The Finance Minister is leading this process. There are also
strong champions at the political and agency level, particularly from the heads o f the relevant participating
agencies (Establishment, MoF, CBR, Planning). The project has been endorsed by the Finance Minister.
Each participating agency has submitted an Entity Improvement Plan (EIP) approved by the agency head.
The umbrella PC-1 for the entire project has beencleared by CDWP on 24 January 2004.

5. Value added of Bank supportinthisproject:
By strengthening public sector capacity and enhancing quality of civil service, the Bank will significantly
contribute towards successful and timely implementation o f GOP's on-going structural reform program at
the federal and provincial levels. The Bank's experience with institutional reforms and global experience in
public sector management places it in an advantageous position to assist GOP in achieving the intended
capacity buildingoutcomes. There is a critical need for well trained and qualified professional, technical
and management officers in the civil service to successfully implement the Government's program of
poverty reduction, economic growth andhumandevelopment.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailedassessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Not Applicable. There is no economic evaluation methodology for technical assistance projects. This i s


                                                     - 29 -

primarily a capacity building and training program. However, further strengthening o f government's
capacity to support the implementation o f its on-going economic reform is likely to have a positive effect on
general business environment, public sector accountability and expenditure, regulatory functions and public
service delivery.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not Applicable. Same as above.

Fiscal Impact:

Not Applicable. Same as above.

3. Technical:
InPakistan, the capacity and quality ofpublic institutions has been declining over time. Although the civil
service has pockets o f excellence, collectively its performance leaves a lot to be desired. A quantumleap in
efficiency and management culture o f the government is needed if Pakistan has to accelerate and sustain
growth, reduce poverty, anticipate the opportunities and challenges o f the future, and enable its enterprising
citizens and private sector to realize their full potentialand compete ina fiercely competitive global market.
Successful implementation of GOP's on-going reform program both at federal and provincial levels i s
                                                                   -                                       -
inseparably linked with the capacity o f government institutions andthe quality o f civil service.

The technical analysis underpinningthe design of this project has already been reflectedinthe section titled
"Key aspectso f Civil Service" (pl. refer to section B - Strategic Context).

4. Institutional:
The project will be implemented by the Finance Division. However, individualparticipating agencieswould
be responsible for implementing their own sub-projects. (For detailed implementation arrangements, see
sections 4.1-4.4).
4.1 Executing agencies:
a.       MinistryofFinance
 b.      CBR
 C.      Establishment Division
 d.      Ministry o f Commerce
 e.      NEPRA
 f.      OGRA
 5       PTA
 h.      Planning& Development Division
 1.      PPRA
 j.      EAD

In addition to the above, all those agencies that will qualijjfor inclusion in theproject during the
implementation phase.
4.2 Project management:
Following implementation arrangementsare beingenvisaged by the Government:
A National Steering and Coordination Committee (nSCC) comprising Secretaries of Finance,
Establishment, Economic Affairs, and Planning Divisions and one independent academic (or a key civil



                                                      - 30 -

society representative), will oversee implementation of the project and review new proposals for inclusion
inthe program. Specifically, theNSCCwill performthe following functions:
     0   Overall monitoring of the project, including a comprehensive mid-term review o f the entire
         program;
     0   Reviewinghetting o f new capacity buildingproposals from the `un-allocated' portion o f the credit;
         and
     0   Reviewinghettingof re-allocation among proposals o f un-utilized funds.

The project will be implemented by the Finance Division (FD). There will be a small facilitation and
coordination unit in FD, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Coordinator (PC),
which will include two professionals (one Procurement Specialist & one Finance Manager) and two
accounting assistants (accounts officer and assistant accounts officer). The PCU would report to the
Additional Secretary, Ministryo f Finance (Policy Wing) andwould be responsible for:
     0   facilitating the participating agencies with procurement and financial management processing
         issues;
     0   assisting agencies with preparation o f new proposals, in line with the overall project development
         objectives;
     0   acting as a secretariat for the National Steering & Coordination Committee (NSCC);
     0   preparing quarterly project progress reports for the NSCC and the Bank.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Goods and works under the Project will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, and Consultants' services in accordance with the Consultants' Guidelines. The procurement
capacity assessment and applicable procurement procedures are provided inAnnex 6A.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project will be implemented at central level. Finance Division (FD) will maintain one special account.
In addition, there shall be 5 other implementing entities (Establishment Division, Planning, NEPRA,
OGRA & PTA) which will each have their own Special Account and accounting staff to manage the
accounting and reportingprocesses.The special accounts to be maintainedby the FD andED shall cater for
the funding needs o f the other agencies/ministries which do not have special accounts (such as CBR, EAD
etc.).
Financial management would be carried out by the individual implementinglsub-implementing agencies
managing the special accounts. Three assignment accounts would be opened at the Finance, Planning and
Establishment Divisions for payment o f counterpart funding. Regulators would use their own intemal
resources for payment o f their respective counterpart hnds.The detailed financial management assessment
i s provided inAnnex 6B.
5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment andEMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NIA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draA:
N/A



                                                     -31 -

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o fthe project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
This is primarily a capacity buildingandtraining project, andis not expectedto have any negative impact
on the environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Better trained staff leading to improved quality o f policy-making and implementation is a social
development outcome. The issues that emanate from this outcome are the criteria o f selection o f staff, and
retention o f trained staff. A second set o f social issues is the poor quality o f output from Pakistan's higher
education system and the need for higher education reforms since the potential civil service officers are
taken from this system. Thus the project's emphasis inimproving local training capacity along with foreign
training for capacity building.

The project's intervention is gearedto address the above notedkey social issues.
6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The implementing agency will hold consultations with the participatingministries and agencies who are the
key stakeholders. Based on these consultations, the programs o f the participating agencies will be
developedfinalized. In addition, key stakeholders within federal, provincial and district governments will
also be consulted inthe overall restructuring process o fthe civil service.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Since this is essentially capacity building o f the government, collaboratiodconsultation with NGOs/CSOs
i s not envisaged; however, where required it will be undertaken.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Since the social development outcome i s also the project development outcome, therefore, the institutional
arrangement is the same as that o f the project, andi s laid out in Section C.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Monitoring mechanisms will be established at various levels. They include: (i)              A National Streering
Coordination Committee (NSCC); (ii)     Project Coordination Unit within the implementing agency; and (iii)
the Civil Service ReformUnitunder Establishment Division. For details refer to Section C.




                                                       - 32 -

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
NIA

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
The focus o f the proposed project is on sustainability through maximization o f investment in staff training
andeducation usinga combination of foreign (declining over time) and domestic (increasing over medium
term) institutions.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
This is a high risk and high return project. The broad-basedprofessional development would result in:(a)
significant improvement o f the technical skills at key levels o f the government; and (b) buildinga critical
mass o f reform champions - thus raising the overall quality o f policy formulation, public service delivery,
and human resource management. With over 500 persons trained, each key ministrylagency would have a
critical number o f trained personnel who will, in turn, engender a demand for quality within service.
Further, capacity building of key economic ministries and departments will ensure that the government's
Economic Reform Programis effectively implemented and that future reforms are appropriately designed.

Notwithstanding the above benefits, following risksneedto be flagged:

                    Risk                           Risk Rating     I           Risk MitigationMeasure
 From Outputsto Objective
 Slow implementationofthe broad-based                   S          The government has introduced broad based
civil service reforms, such as Pay and                             reforms. Nevertheless, the pace o f these reforms
Pension, Merit-basedRecruitment &                                  could be slow, given the nature o f reforms,
Promotions, Rightsizing, etc                                       availablility o f fiscal space, political
                                                                   dimesnsions, etc. Also, some components o f the
                                                                   CSR agenda are still at an early stage o f
                                                                    implementation. Nevertheless, the
                                                                    FederaVProvincial Governments are building
                                                                    consensus andindications are that the GOP will
                                                                    continue to move on this front. The Government



                                                      - 33-

                                                      has set up a Civil Service ReformUnit(CSRU)
                                                      under this project which will: (i) managethe
                                                      professional development program including
                                                      monitoring progress, tracking staff placements
                                                      after return, monitoring the bond
                                                      implementation, carrying a comprehensive
                                                      mid-term review of the program etc; and (ii)
                                                      carry out analytical work such as Pay and
                                                      Pension Study, PromotiodTransfer Policies etc.
                                                      to support and strengthen overall civil service
                                                      reform efforts. Further, given that it will take at
                                                      least 2-3 years before the professional
                                                      development program will beginto show results,
                                                      one needsto start the processnow so that the
                                                      various components o f the civil service reform
                                                      (including professional development) work in
                                                      tandem
 Programnot yielding desired                    S     There will be a comprehensive mid-termreview,
 results/outcomes, such as delays in                  middle o fthirdyear o fimplementation, when
 implementation o f training programs,                 several cohorts o f the EDP, two cohorts o f
 returnees not placed inrelevant areas, etc.           PDev would have returnedback. The mid-term
                                                       review will assess the effectiveness o f the
I                                                      program andmake 'mid-course' corrections
                                                       basedon emerging lessons.Inaddition, the
                                                       CSRU will closely track andmonitor
                                                       placements o f officers upontheir returnto
                                                       ensure that most o f these officers are placed in
                                                       the relevant areadagencies
 From Components to Outputs
 Component (i):    Professional Development     M      (a) Giventhat these officers are beingdrawn
 (a) Sending away key policy level officers            from a diversified pool, covering federal and
 inlarge numbers (100peryear) might                    provincial officers, both cadre and non-cadre
 slow down government functioning at                   categories, the risk is not substantial, and could
 various levels                                        be managedby placement o f good quality
                                                       secondtier officers across these agencies
  3)Govemance issueinthe selection of           M      (b) The target group for the foreign degree
  ifficers for training, especially overseas           program are middle-senior level officers (grades
  legree programs.                                     17-19) with age limitof no more than 37 years.
                                                       These officers will apply ina relevant area,
                                                       from a pre-identified list o f disciplines, and to a
                                                       university, from a pre-determined list o f reputed
                                                       universities. The selection o f the staff will be
                                                       done through an objective process, including
                                                       rigorous pre-screening and later through
                                                       admission criteria o f overseasuniversities. This
                                                       process will ensure transparency and
                                                       merit-based selection.
 (c) Leakage o f trained officers               M      (c) The past record with foreign training



                                               -34 -

                                                                     programs indicates that this riskmay not be
                                                                     significant; more than 80% o f officers sent on
                                                                     degreeprograms by CBR and the Auditor
                                                                     General o f Pakistan inthe recent pasthave
                                                                     returned andare fully utilizing their training.
                                                                     Moreover, the professionaltraining program has
                                                                     been designed to target a large number o f
                                                                     officers; notwithstanding some `leakage', there
                                                                     i s a highprobability that a critical mass will
                                                                     remain within the system. Also, the officers will
                                                                     be signing a `bond` with GOP to serve for at
                                                                     least 5 years upon return. Lastly, the current
                                                                     international environment seems to be reversing
                                                                     the trend o f brain-drain o f Pakistanis abroad.
Component (ii) (iii):
                 and       Strengthening                M            (a) By focusing on developing local capacity
key economic ministries andregulatory                                through training andprofessional development,
agencies:                                                            this riskwill be directly addressedand
(a) Implementationrisk:Traditionally                                 mitigated; around 60-65 percent o f the project
capacity buildingis perceived to be                                  funds have beenallocated to training, andonly
consultant driven with little ownership                              limitedamount for consultancies; thus ensuring
withingovernment agencies to implement                               sustained inhouse capacity buildingrather than
                                                                     short term external support
(b) Leakage o f trained officers                        M            (b) Same explanationas above {in (i)     (c))
Overall Risk Rating                                      S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri: ), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

0   Standard Conditions will apply

2. Other [classify accordingto covenanttypes used in the LegalAgreements,]
A: General
0   MoF shall ensure that the National Steering and Coordination committee (NSSC), andthe Project
    Coordination Unit (PCU), shall be maintainedthroughout the project implementation period, with
    terms o f reference and composition satisfactory to the IDA;
0   All Participating Agencies shall ensure implementationoftheir Entity Improvement Plans (EIPs) as
    agreedwith the Bank;
0   The Borrower shall annually review with the IDA the CSR Agenda andprogress incarrying it out,
    and, thereafter, take all measuresrequiredto ensure its efficient future implementation and completion
    andachievement o fits objectives, taking into account the IDA'Sviews on the matter;
0   The Borrower shall ensure that all EIPs and progress in carrying them out will be reviewed annually
    with the Association, and, thereafter, all such measures will be taken as are required to ensure their



                                                       - 35 -

    efficient future implementation and completion and achievement o f their objectives, taking into account
    the Association's views on the matter.
    candidates for EDP and PDev will be required to be: (i)     eligible under criteria, (ii)
                                                                                            selectedin
    accordance with procedures, (iii) ina manner, and(iv) placedinpre-selected courses at
                                        bonded
    pre-selected universities, all satisfactory to the Association;
    EDP and PDev and progress incarrying them out will be reviewedannually with the Association, and,
    thereafter, all such measures will be taken as are required to ensure their efficient future
    implementation and completion and achievement o f their objectives, taking into account the
    Association's views on the matter.
    The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no EIP proposed by a
    ParticipatingAgency will be included unless:
    (a) establishes that the activities to be carried out under it are consistent with the objectives o f the
    Project, andwith the overall strategic visiodplan o f the ParticipatingAgency concerned;
    (b) sets out with respect to such activities: timelines; progress monitoringindicators; full costs; and a
    program for the first year ready for implementation; and
    (c) has been: prepared in consultation with the PCU/PC; reviewedby the Bank; and approved by the
    NSCC.
    The MoF shall prepare andprovide to IDA ina form acceptable to IDA:
    0    starting December 312004, quarterly progress reports, including progress achieved inthe
         implementationo f the various components o f the project, identifying any problems encountered and
         suggestedremedialactions to ensure the efficient implementationo fthe project and the
         achievement o f the objectives thereof during the period following such date
    0    by September 30 2006, amid-term report assessingthe project progress andoutcomes.

B: Covenants related to Financial Management
0   The MoF andall ImplementingAgencies shall:
    0    maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial
         statements inaccordancewith accounting standards acceptable to IDA to reflect their operations
         andfinancial condition and to register separatelythe operations, resourcesand expenditures related
         to the project;
    0    have their records, accounts and financial statements (statements o f income and expensesand
         related statements) for each fiscal year audited, inaccordance with auditing standards acceptable to
         IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptableto IDA;
    0    furnishto IDA, as soon as available, but inany case not later thansix months after the endofeach
         such year, excepting 31December 2004: (i)       certified copies o f the financial statements for such
         year as so audited, and (ii)  an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and a
         report o f such audit by said auditors, o f such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably
         requested; and
    0    furnish to IDA such other information concerning saidrecords, accounts andfinancial statements
         andthe audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
[xi 1.b) Not applicable.

[xi 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.


                                                       -36 -

Kl3. TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):

Note: Inplace o f PIP, we have EntityImprovement Plans for each participating agency. Kindly note PIP is
no longer required underthe new guidelines)

1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Ixi 1. Thisprojectcomplies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




K y a M l a q u e
Team Leader                               Sector ManagerlDirector




                                                  - 37 -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
             PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                                              Data CollectionStrategy
                                                                                           CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:        jector Indicators:            iectorlcountry reports:     :TomGoal to Bank Mission)
mproving Government              0 Improved quality o f        0 Bank's supervision o f   0  Macro-economic situation
:ffectiveness inpublic sector      public sector policy          federal/ provincial SAC     stays stable
nanagement                         formulation and               programs                 0  Broadbased Civil Service
                                   implementation              0 Bank's PER Report           Reforms are implemented
                                 0 Improved public service     0 Gov.'s Economic Report      to achieve competence,
                                   delivery                    0 PRSP outcomes.              transparency &
                                 0 Improved public sector      0 Bank's sectoral reviews,    accountability o f public
                                   accountability                e.g. Investment Climate     sector
                                 0 Improved public               Assessment; Power, Oil    0 Continued demand by the
                                   expenditure management        & Gas Review, Telecom,      public for improved
                                 0 Improvedregulatory            etc.                        public sector performance
                                   functions                                               0 Sectoral reforms
                                 0 Increasedcompetition                                      implemented
                                   and private sector
                                   participation



'roject Development             htcome I Impact               'roject reports:            from Objective to Goal)
3bjective:                      ndicators:
To support GoP's efforts in     1. Professional               0  Civil Service Reform      0 The GOP will move
he implementation o f its          Development:                  Unit's (CSRU) progress      forward with its Civil
In-going Economic Reform             0  Grade 17+ staff          reports (tracking o f       Service Reforms agenda,
'rogram by:                             occupying keypolicy      returnees, placements).     especially inthe areas o f
1. Enhancing the skills o f             level positions inthe 0  PCU Quarterly               CS structure, pay &
    public sector officials             Government are           Monitoring Report.          pension
    through broad based                 professionally        0  PCUMid-Term Review        0 Increasing inputs in some
    professional development            qualifiedtrained in      and Final Evaluation        specific areas will, over
2. Strengthening capacity of            relevant areas.          (after completion)          time, lead to better public
     key ministries/agencies         0  Quality o f domestic   0 Bank reports on broader      sector performance.
     which are inthe forefront          public sector training   civil service reform      0  Changing some key
     o f design,                        meet international       implementation              processes withinthe key
     implementation and                 standards                                             agencies will lead to
     monitoring o f reforms;                                                                  better performance.
3. Strengthening capacity of                                                               0  Sector specific outputs
     independent regulatory                                                                   would lead to certain
     institutions ineffectively                                                               reforms.
     regulating their
     respective sectors

                                !. Economic Ministries:        0 PCU/Agency Quarterly
                                     0  Adequate in-house        Monitoring Report.
                                        capacity to perform    0 PCU Mid-Term Review
                                        key economic             and Final Evaluation
                                        functions (measured      (after completion)
                                        by MTBF, PER, Deb1
                                        Policy, Tax
                                        Administration) and


                                                          - 38-

     improved fiscal and
     financial mgmt.
   0 Improved agency
     processes; less
     reliance on external
     consultants;
     reduction in
     overheads

, Regulatory Agencies:       0 PCU/Agency Quarterly
   0 Enhanced capacity in      Monitoring Report.
     NEPRA, OGRA,            0 PCU Mid-Term Review
     PTA to regulate/          and Final Evaluation
     monitor performance       (after completion)
     o f the utilities,
     measured by annual
     tariff hearings and
     enforcement o f
     licence conditions.
   0 Improved climate for
     private investment
     and participation;
     and privatization o f
     one generation and
     one distribution
     business by FY06
   0 Enhanced
     competition inthe
     sector, through open
     accesstcommon
     carrier regime,
     manifested by direct
     producer and
     consumer contracts.
   0 Regulatory regime is
     sufficiently
     developed to foster
     privatization, as
     measuredby
     investors broad
     agreement on
     regulatory principles
     through privatization
     transactions .
   0 Telelcom service
     providers meet
     quality standards




                        - 39 -

                           KeyIndicators
                                 Performance           Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives                                                              Critical Assumptions
htput from each         Output Indicators:             'rojectreports:             'romOutputs to Objective)
:omponent:
:ProfessionalDevelopment 0 Overall at an aggregate                                 Ley Assumptions:
 0Overseas degree and      projectlevel:                0 PCUQuarterly             0  Reformsbasedpurely on
  non-degree training   1. Approximately 250-300          Monitoring Report.          professionalassessments
  programs implemented.    civil servants including     0 PCUMid-Term Review          that increasinginputs in
 0NSPPoperationalized      ex-cadre (grade 17-19 or       and Final Evaluation        some specific areas will,
                                                          (after completion)          over time, leadto better
                                                        0 Civil ServiceReform         public sector
                                                          Unit's(CSRU)                performance.
                                                          monitoring reports
                                                          (tracking of returnees,  Ssk-mitigation:
                                                          placements).             0  Ensure full professional
                                                                                      debate;
                                                                                   0  Ensurethat training is a
                                                                                      contribution to structural
                                                                                      reforms inthe civil
                                                                                      service;
                                                                                    0 Monitor return rate and
                                                                                      adjust bonding
                                                                                      arrangementsif
                                                                                      necessary;
                                                                                    0  Regularly monitor
                                                                                      progress ininputs over
                                                                                      project life




                         0 InputIndicators:
                        1. Implementationof
                           PDev/EDPtraining
                           programs
                        2. Core faculty for NSPP
                           recruitedby 2006;
                        3. NSPP-twinning
                           relationshipestablished
                           with world class
                           institution, by 2006;
                        4. Federal Public Service
                           Commission's(FPSC)
                           entry level CSS
                           Competitive examination
                           process reviewedby
                           2006;
                        5. FPSC Restructuring
                           Reportcompletedby
                           2006.




                                                  - 40 -

2: Economic ManaPement        'rocess Indicators                 a PCUlAgency Quarterly   ;ey Assumptions:
 a Finance: Enhanced                                              MonitoringReports.      a Changing some key
    capacity to effectively      L . Debt Policy &               a PCUMid-Term Review        processes within the key
    formulate, coordinate and        Coordination Unit:            and Final Evaluation      agencieswill lead to
    implement economic and            a DPCOllly                   (after completion)        better performance.
    fiscal policies including            functional by 2004.

    tax policy and reforms.           a Preparationof
                                         Annual Debt Policy
                                         Statementby 2005,                                5sk-mitigation:
                                                                                             Aligning with key PRSP
                                         after approval of the                               indicators to strengthen
                                         fiscal responsibility
                                         bill; to be laidbefore                              linkage betweenoverall
                                                                                             reform andagency level
                                         the National                                        reform program
                                         Assembly.
                                      a Formulation o f an
                                         improvedFiscal
                                         Policy by 2005 after
                                         approval ofthe fiscal
                                         responsibility bill; to
                                         be laid before the
                                         National Assembly.
                                      a Preparation and
                                         regular updating of
                                         an improved and
                                         comprehensive
                                         macro-economic
                                         framework.
                                 Z.  Corporate Finance:
                                      a Regular monitoring
                                         o f SOEs financial
                                         position & balance
                                         sheet analyses,
                                         starting with atleast 2
                                         (WAPDA/KESC),by
                                         2005, and eventually
                                         expanding to the
                                         majority of public
                                         corporate sector by
                                         2008.
                                 3.  Policy Wing:
                                      a Monitoring             &
                                         reporting (by posting
                                         on MOF website) oi
                                         PRSP indicators on
                                         quarterly        basis!
                                         starting 2004.
                                      a Preparation o f Public
                                         Expenditure Review,
                                         starting 2005.




                                                             -41-

8 CBR: Improved taxpayer  1.    1LTU inLahoreand 5          PCU/AgencyQuarterly
  services.                    MTUs inKarcahi,             0
                                                            MonitoringReport.
                                Quetta, Peshawar,           PCUMid-Term Review
                                Faisalabadand              0

                                Rawalpindi operational      and Final Evaluation

                                by 2004.                    (after completion)

                           2.    Sales Tax Automated       0Publisheddocuments

                                RefimdRepository            from individual units.

                                (STARR), secondphase
                                implementedby 2004.
                           3.   CustomsPilot Project
                                involving development &
                                implementationof
                                re-engineeredprocedure
                                for clearance of imports
                                and exportsimplemented
                                by 2004.

                            $ # UniversalSelf
                                Assessment Scheme
                                (USAS) implementedby
                                2004.
                           5.   7 Taxpayers Facilitation
                                Centers (TFCs)
                                establishedby 2004.



 0 Commerce: Enhanced       I. Legal      Advisory    Cell  PCU/AgencyQuarterly
   capacityto deal with         established by 2005 foi    0
                                                            MonitoringReport
   trade issues and WTO         expert advice & guidance    PCUMid-Term Review
   relatedmatters.              to       the      business 0
                                                            and Final Evaluation
                            z.  community.
                                Data Cell/Digital Libra0    (after completion)

                                establishedby 2006         0Quarterly Reportontrade

                            3,  At least 30-40 officials    performance,major trade

                                shall receive specialized   initiatives andtrade

                                short-term training    bj   policy implementation

                                2006.



 0 EstablishmentDivision                                    PCU/AgencyQuarterly
   (CSRU):Enhanced          1.  CSRUoperationalby          0
                                                            MonitoringReport.
   capacityon key civil         2004.                       Civil Service Reform
   service reform (CSR)     I. A technical study on        0
                                                            Unit's (CSRU)
   areas.                       compensation issues and
                                optionscompletedin          monitoring reports
                                conjunctionwith MoF by     0Progress reportson
                                2005.                       broader civil service
                                                            reform implementation
                                                           0PCUIAgencyQuarterly
                                                            MonitoringReport.
                                                           0PCUMid-TermReview
                                                            and Final Evaluation
                                                            (after completion)




                                                      -42 -

                                                            PCUIAgencyQuarterly
   EconomicAffairs           1. Improved MIS to be
                                implementedby 2005.         MonitoringReport.
   Division (EAD):                                          PCUMid-Term Review
   Enhancedcapacityto        2.At        least       40-45
                                                            and FinalEvaluation
   manage donor funded          middle-level staff receive
                                                            (after completion)
   projects.                    specialized training by
                                2007.


B  Planning: Enhanced
   capacity ineconomic       1. Completemacro-model         PCUIAgencyQuarterly

   planning & monitoring        functional by 2005          MonitoringReport.
                             2. Researchlibrary digitized   PCUMid-Term Review
                                by 2005                     and Final Evaluation
                             3. First batchof 10case        (after completion)
                                studies completedby
                                2005
                             1. Firstbatchof39 officers
                                receivespecialized
                                short-termtraining by
                                2005


   Public Procurement        1. Public procurementrules     PCUIAgencyQuarterly
   RegulatoryAuthority
    (PPRA): Enhanced            under preparation to bc     MonitoringReport.

    capacityto implement        finalized for notificatior  PCUMid-Term Review
                                by the federalgovernmen     and Final Evaluation
    public procurement          by 2004.                    (after completion)
                             2. Atleast 20 staff will
                                receivespecialized
                                training by 2008,




!: RegulatoryFunction        3utput Indicators:                                    KeyAssumptions:
hhanced capacity to deal
vith regulatoryissues.
        NEPRA: Strengthen 1. Cost of capitalandcost o       ProjectJAgencyQuarterly3overnment commitmentto
        capacity to regulate    service identified, by      MonitoringReport.      mdsupport for reformsis
        the electric poweI      2006.                       ProjectMid-Term Revievrnaintained; and reform
        sector and develop a 2. Performanceand              and Final Evaluation   irograms are implemented(ai
        competitive structure   environment standards       (after completion)     3er CAS High/Base case  ?)
        for generation and      notified, by 2005.          Gov. publicationsand
        supply.              3. Congestioncosts for         survey reports.        Reformsmeasuredinterms oj
                                pricingdecisions                                   sector specific outputs
                                identified,by 2006.
                             4. Frameworkfor targetted
                                anddirect subsidies                                Risk-mitigation:
                                developed, by 2005.                                Closemonitoring of sectoral
                             5. Frameworkfor direct sale                           reformsand deliverables
                                by Generatorsto Bulk
                                PowerConsumers (Singlc                             Bank maintainspolicy
                                Buyer+ model)adopted,                              dialogueand support
                                from 2004.




                                                       -43-

0OGRA: Strengther     1. Framework for                 0ProjecUAgency Quarterly   KeyAssumptions:
 capacity   to   foste    performance standards,        Monitoring Report.        3overnment commitment to
 competition and dea      competition, optimizing       Project Mid-Term Review   mdsupport for reforms is
 with the challenge!      production and other          and Final Evaluation      naintained; and reform
 arising   from    tht    operational aspects o f oil   (after completion)        irograms are implemented (as
 proposed                 & gas sector developed,       Gov. publications and     ier CAS HigWBase case ?)
 restructuring o f tht    by 2006.                      survey reports.           Zeforms measured intenns o f
 gas sector.           2. Technicallfinancial and                                 iector specific outputs
                          other performance
                          standards for the oil and                               Risk-mitigation:
                          gas sectors developed and                               :lose monitoring o f sectoral
                          notified, by 2005.                                      .eforms and deliverables.
                       3. Framework and Rules for                                 3ank maintainspolicy
                          open access and common                                  iialogue and support
                          carrier regime inPakistan
                          preparedby 2005.




0PTA:        StregthenI, AwardofLDandLL                 ProjecdAgency Quarterly     Key Assumptions:
 capacity           tc    (fixed telephone licenses)    Monitoring Reports.       3overnment commitment to
 implement         the    by 2004;                     0Project Mid-Term Review md support for reforms is
 telecom deregulation l.  Framework formulation         and Final Evaluation      naintained; and reform
 policy.                  for US0will be devised        (after completion)        irograms are implemented (as
                          by2005;                       Gov. publications and     )er CAS HigWBase case ?)
                       1. Formulation o f Quality o f   survey reports.
                          Service parameters for       0ITUreports                Zeforms measured interms o f
                          telecom services by 2005;     Periodic surveys to       ;ector specific outputs
                      I. Framework for                  compare tariffs with other
                         determination o f              developing countries      Risk-mitigation:
                          interconnectioncharges                                  l o s e monitoring o f sectoral
                         on cost basedconvention                                  .efonns and deliverables.
                         by 2005.
                       I,Atleast 45 staff will                                    3ank maintainspolicy
                         receive specialized                                      jialogue and support
                         training by 2008.




                                                 - 44 -

                                     Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
                                          Indicators                                 Critical AssumDtions
                                nputs: (budgetfor each     roject reports:          rom Componentsto
 Sub-components:               :omponent)                                           1utputs)
 1: Professional Development 623 million
 (a) Training Programsabroad                                a Quarterlyproject
 (degree & non-degree)                                        monitoring and
      (i) PDev                  $13 million                   supervisionreports
      (ii)EDP                   $4 million                  0 CSRUprogressreporting
                                                              ProjectMid-Term Review
 (b) Domestic Training          $5 million                    and Final Evaluation
 Institutions -   PASC/NSPP/                                  (after completion)
 NIPAS/CSNetc.

 (c) FederalPublic Service     61 million
 Commission(FPSC)




 2: Economic Policv and
 Management                     6 21.4 million              a Quarterlyproject
 (a) Finance                   E4 million                     monitoring and
 (b) CBR                       E6 million                     supervisionreports
 (c) Commerce                  62 million                   0 ProjectMid-Term Revieu
 (d) CSRU                       62 million                    and Final Evaluation
  (e) Planning                  65.4 million                  (after completion)
  (f) EAD                       E l million
, (g) PPRA                      E1 million



 3: Regulatory Function         E 5.6 million               a Quarterlyproject
  (a) NEPRA                     E2 million                    monitoring and
  CO) OGRA                      E2 million                    supervisionreports
  (c) PTA                       E 1.6 million               a ProjectMid-Term Reviev
                                                              and Final Evaluation
                                                              (after completion)

  4: Un-allocated               911million
  (a) Ministy of Water &
  Power
  (b) Statistics-FBS
  (c) Provincial Fin.& Planning
  (d) Others/Un-identified




                                                      - 45 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
          PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

By Component:

Project Component Professional Development US$23.00 million
                                                 -
Restructuring o f the Civil Service is one o f the significant administrative features o f the Civil Service
Reforms under the Economic Revival Program o f 1999. This component o f the PSCBP will address the
capacity andtechnical skills gap inthe civil service, and will largely focus on the professional development
of federal and provincial civil service and ex-cadre officers. Itwill be undertaken through the following:

 (al) Professional Training Program (degree and non-degree) for middle to senior level officers
 (US!$17 million): The Establishment Divisionwill manage and implement two training programs for civil
 servants under this sub-component. These are:
    (i)anExecutiveDevelopmentProgram(EDP)forsenior(BPS20and21)civilservantstocreatea
    community o freform champions inthe upper echelons o f the civil service.
    (ii)Professional DevelopmentProgram(PDev) foryounger(BPS17-19) civilservantstoenhance
         a
    their technical capabilities as policy analysts andimplementers. The programwill be open to all federal
    and provincial officers on competitive basis.

    (i) Executive Development Program (EDP) (US$4 million): The Establishment Division will manage
    an external short-term (5-6 weeks) training program targeting senior federal and provincial civil
    servants ingrades 20 and 21- both federallprovincial andex-cadre.
         Selection Criteria:
         0   The proposedcriteria of selection for EDP includes:
            0     Rank in top quintile i.e. have received 'very good' (this represents the highest category in
                 ACRs), for the last 5 years o f service performance record;
            0     Likely to be promoted shortly after return;
            0    No more than 55 years of age.

         Cohorts:
         0   Each cohort will comprise 50 officers and not more than 200 officers will be trained during the
             project period starting first batch in fall 2004. Gender diversity will be maintained to the
             extent possible.

         SelectiodManagement Committee:
         0   Final Selection will be made by a Management Committee, headed by Secretary Establishment
             and representatives o f Finance (Additional Secretary), Establishment (JS Training), and
             prominant and 1-2 prominent and independent senior level people, from acadamic and
             government.

     (ii) Professional Development Program (PDev) (US$13 million): Under this, the Establishment
    Division will undertake an external degree educational program (foreign anddomestic) targetingfederal
    and provincial civil servants ingrades 17-19    - both federal/ provincial and ex-cadre.

         Selection Criteria:
         0   The proposed criteria of selection includes:
            0     Grades 17 to 19 officers; only those Grade 17 with minimum of 5years of service;



                                                      - 46 -

   0    N o more than 37 years of age (+ two years as exceptions only);
   0    Only those who have a domestic Master's Degree or 16 years of education (MBBS, BE
        etc.) with First Division in at least two o f the three Degrees ((FNFSc., Bachelor and
        Masters);
   0    D o not already have a foreign Master's Degree;
   0    Rankin CSAcademy on Graduation for CSS officers, andequivalent ranking for ex-cadre
        officers.
    Those who qualify on the above criteria will have to pass the GREI GMAT-type screening
    exam, conducted by an independent institution (such as IBA, LUMS, etc).
    However, for the first year o f the program, candidates will not be pre-tested through
    GREIGMAT -type screening exam. This is to ensure that some individuals can benefit from
    the PDev program duringthe first year. Potential candidates, meeting the entry criteria (grade,
    age, division, rank, etc.), will be encouraged, through an advertisement, to apply directly to
   pre-selected universities within the pre-specified areas o f study (as indicatedbelow).
    Final Selection for PDev will be made by a Selection Board Committee, headedby Additional
    Secretary Establishment Division, and representatives o f Finance (Additional Secretary),
    Establishment (JS Training), and 1-2 prominent and independent senior level people, from
    acadamic and government.
    Those finally selected should be authorized to apply to ONLY selected set of universities, and
    in selected areas/ core subjects (a "tentative" list of proposed institutions and subjects is
    indicatedbelow -Table 1852).

Cohorts:
0   Inorder to managethe evolution of the program, and taking into account delays envisaged in
    finalizing the pre-testing arrangements, the initial group would be small (say 50) for first
    academic year, 2005106; followed by 75 each, in 2006107 and 2007108 respectively, and
    finally 100 in 2007108. A total o f 300 civil servants are expected to benefit from this program.
0   To ensure gender diversity, a minimum(say 20%) could be female participants; this proposed
    distribution should be applied to the full 300 participants rather than on each o f the four
    individual cohort.

Information Sharing:
0   Newspaper announcementssupplementedby formal paper andelectronic communications from
    the Establishment Division would ensure wide awareness and transparency of the proposed
    degree program and its criteria for selection. Establishment Division would also provide
    secretariat support staff for management of the program such as screening, support to selection
    committee, etc.

Post-Degree Responsibility:
0   To minimize leakage, the participating civil servant would sign a government bond which
    would commit herhim to continue to serve the government for a minimumof (5 years) in the
    ministry1departmentlorganization in which he or she has obtained the training. If, for some
    reason, the civil servant would want to leave government service, the expenditure on hisher
    education shouldbecome a loan to be fully repaid before exit.




                                            -47 -

   Table-1: LIST OF UNIVERSITIES FOR DEGREEPROGRAM

                           USA                                Canada              UK

1Australian                HarvardBusiness School             McGill               Oxford
                   Nationa Harvard                            Toronto              Cambridge
                           Kennedy School                     McMaster             LSE
                           MIT                                                     Royal   Institute o f  Public
                           Columbia                                                Administration
                           Yale                                                    Economic    Center  o f Bath
                           Stanford                                                University
                           Chicago                                                 London University
                           Pennsylvania
                           MichiganAnn Arbor
                           George Town
                           North Westem
b                          Williams College
 Singapore                 France                             Pakistan
 Civil Service College     INSEAD                             LUMS, IBA, NUST
  ational Universitv


 Table-2: PRIORITY AREAS FORDEGREE PROGRAMS

 i)Economics
       Fiscal, Monetary; Trade; Industrial Economics; Public Finance; Regulation; Agricultural Economics;
      EducationEconomics; Health Economics

 ii)MBA
 Finance, Banking; Accounts

 iii)PublicPolicy&PublicAdministration
 Policy, Planning and Management; Monitoring andEvaluation

 iv) Regulationof PublicMonopoliesandPublicUtilities
 UtilityManagement

 v) Governance
 DevolutionandDecentralization; Fiscal Decentra1ization;Fiscal Federalism; Local Government Administration

 vi) Law
 Regulatory Economics; IntemationalWater Law, Financial and Economic Law; Trade and technical law;

 vii) Social Sector Development
 EducationPlanning, Policy andManagement; Health Planning, Policy and
 Management; Population Planning, Policy andManagement; GenderDevelopment & Management

 viii) IrrigationmaturalResourceManagement



                                                     - 48 -

e.g. Water Resources Planning, Policy andManagement; Watershed Management; Groundwater Management

ix) Infrastructure
Infrastructure Planning, Policy and Management;

     (a2) Professional Training Program (degree and non-degree) for middle to senior level staff of
     regulatory agencies; Under this, the regulators will select relevant courses for short and long term
     training. The selection criteria will be in accordancewith regulator's EIPs.

(b) StrengtheningIn-CountryTrainingCapacitythrough support of TrainingInstitutions (PASC/NSPP;
NIPAs, CSA, etc.). Total Cost US$ 5 million. This sub-component comprises up-gradation of civil service
training institutions (PASClNSPP, CSA & NIPAs) including: building faculty capacity; improving/revising
curricula; enhancing infrastructure and IT connectivity; and twinning with international institutions. The
component will also support establishment of the National School o f Public Policy (NSPP). Following initial
activities are envisaged under the NSPP:
    (i)       Hiringof core faculty which is driven by a strategic choice for the niche that NSPP would like to
    fillinthefirmamentofeducationalinstitutions;
    (ii)      Hiring a Publications Manager, Business & Marketing Manager and an Information System's
    Manager;
    (iii)     Needs Analysis for curriculum reform (Pre-service; In-service; Degree Program);
    (iv)      Evaluate and Improvepre-service (CS Academy) andin-service (NIPA; PASC) training programs;
    (v)       Work towards becoming a Graduate Degree granting institution, over three to five years, i.e. first
    set o f students beginin2006 for graduation one year later;
    (vi)      Develop by competing with private and public sector universities to provide short term training
    programs for Civil Servants invarious areas including:
      0     Statistical Analysis (For Federal Bureau o f Statistics, Statistics Division, Economic Advisor Wing)
      0     Regulatory Issues(Economics; Tariff Setting experiences elsewhere) for Regulatory Agencies)
      0    HumanResourcesDevelopmentProgram(Federal, ProvincialDepartments);
      0     Change Management Program (Federal, Provincial Departments);
      0     Monitoring & Evaluation (Federal; Provincial Departments);
      e     Public sector procurement;
      0     Information Technology (Federal, Provincial Departments)
      0     Librarydevelopment and linkwith IT Department.
The above is an illustrative list and would be subject to the results of Needs Analysis. Over the mediumto long
term, this will put NSPP among one o f the key suppliers o f domestic training and education competing with the
private sector.

(c) Improving Civil Service Recruitment processthrough support of FederalPublic Service Commission
(FPSC)
The key areas o f support will include strengthening o f entry level examination process including improving
syllabi and system of competitive examination, management of promotion examinations, handling of
promotions, curriculum development skills enhancement, and upgradation o f FPSC to an automated
computerized environment. Total cost is around US$ 1million.

     Project ComponentStrengtheningEconomic Policyand Management US$21.40 million
                                                                                -
Capacitybuildingofkeyfederal and provincialministriesand divisions,includingFinance,Planning,
Commerce,CentralBoardof Revenue,Establishment,etc., who are inthe vanguard of design and
implementationof GOP's reformagenda.More specifically, this component will assist:



                                                          - 4 9 -

(i)
  Ministry of Finance (MoF) to buildcapacity of its various wings dealing with Policy Formulation; Budget
& ExpenditureManagement; Debt Management; ExternalFinance; Corporate Finance; andInternalFinance, to
enable them to effectively coordinate implementaion o f economic and fiscal policies and reforms o f the
Government. The project will support an integrated medium term program comprising: professional training o f
staff (degree and non-degree-- short term specialized training in areas such as pension reforms, debt
manamgement, public expenditure management); short and long term consultant support for specialized
analytical work and policy reform programs; and infrastructure and IT facilities upgrade. Individual wings o f
MoF have prepared integrated proposals, which add up to a total o f around US$4million. These include:

0  Debt Management: Strengthening the newly established Debt Policy and Coordination Office (DPCO) to
   monitor the country's debt situation. This office will serve as a Secretariat to achieve the objectives
   envisaged in the Fiscal Responsibility and Debt Limitation Ordinance 2003 and prepare a ten year debt
   reduction path. These activities are expected to bringthe country's debt situationto a sustainable path and
   contribute to sustaining financial discipline.
    Specifically, the DPCO will:
        a) Presentthe Annual Debt Policy Statement included inthe ABS before the National Assembly;
        b) Coordinate the preparation and regular updatingof a comprehensive macro-economic framework.
        c) Submit an annual report on the implementationo f agreed debt strategy.
        d) Provide leadership on debt data questions to all concerned parts of the government and ensure
        compliance with agreedreportingrequirements.
        e)   Give policy advice on external borrowing and internal borrowing strategies and make
        recommendations on reducing the cost o f borrowing.
        f)Monitor the implementation ofcontingency management arrangements,which shouldbelocated inthe
        BudgetWing.
        g) Submit annual debt policy statement on trends in public and external debt and the implementing of
        adopted debt reduction goals as well as suggesting adjustments in the Government's overall debt
        strategy.
 e   CorporateFinance, Banking and Investment Wings: to improve their monitoring capacity to evaluate key
     public sector enterprises, process o f privatization, banking, and capital markets and facilitate private
     sector participation inkey areas. Effective management o f financial aspects o f state owned enterprises i s
     expected to leadto financial discipline, reduction insubsidy and improved utilization o f resources.
     As a result of the reforms in the areas of financial sector liberalization, institutional strengthening,
     domestic debt, monetary management, banking laws, foreign exchange and capital market, which began in
     the 199Os, the role of the Finance Divisionhas become more critical. Itnow has to performthe following
     broad categories o f fimctions as well:-
             a) InstitutionalMonitoring:
             b)Financial Sector Monitoringand Reforms and MaintainingDatabase:
             c) Privatization and Restructuringo f Public Sector Enterprises, Banks and DFIs
 e   External Finance Wing (Budget, Credit & IFR):            Strengthening capacity in the key areas o f public
     finance,  expenditure management and monetary policy. Building expertise in the key areas o f external
     finance, external debt management, balance o f payment, trade, WTO related issues, management o f
     multilateral debt, matters relating to bondissues, international capital markets and monetary policy.
     Finance Division intends to build capacity o f the officers working in External Finance Wing through
     training in reputable international and domestic institutions on modem techniques o f managing external
     financeshesources, overall financial management and policy analysis. The Finance Division also intends
     to increase their capacity by using information technology inday-to-day business o f the Ministry.The use
     of IT can be enhanced through training in the field o f IT from local and international institutions and
     installation o f necessary equipmentlsoftware.


                                                         - 50 -

     Policy Wing:       Strengthening capacity in policy areas related to fiscal analysis including revenue
     projections, tax policy dialogue with CBR, building expertise in development o f a macroeconomic
     framework and in formulation o f a human development strategy, Public Expenditure Review, formulation,
     updating, and monitoring o f Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, preparation o f Poverty Reduction Strategy
     Credit, assist the MoF in Policy formulation and analysis in key areas ,and overall monitoring o f broad
     based structural reforms under IMF, the World Bank programs and the Asian Development Bank program
      loans.
     Internal Finance Wing: Although, GoP is off-loading its majority share to the private sector inmost o f the
     nationalized commercial banks, yet MOF i s represented on the Board o f Directors o f all Nationalized
      Commercial Banks. Therefore expertise to evaluate balance sheets o f the banks and proper monitoring and
     tracking o f their performance i s required to avoid build-upo f contingent liabilities as happened inthe past.
     In addition, there is need to build capacity for monitoring trends in financial markets domestically and
      international1y.

(ii)Central Board of Revenue: This sub-component is part of CBR's overall tax administration reform
strategy, to be supported under a larger Tax Administration Reform Project that is currently under preparation
with Bank assistance through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In addition to preparation o f a
comprehensive reform plan, CBR has also undertaken a few reform initiatives under the PPF including,
establishment o f Large/Medium Tax Payers Units -LTU/ MTU, sales tax STARR project, a customs pilot and
others. The PPF funds are already committed, and the larger program support is unlikely to be effective before
the next 6-8 months. As it is critical to continue with the short term initiatives without delay and so as the
reform program does not lose its gained momentum, it has been agreed to include some immediate reform
initiatives under this project, and bridge the financing gap while the larger program is prepared. The initiatives
proposed to be supported under this sub-component include:

        Capacity Buildingand Training o f CBR Employees; Inorder to properly manage the reform process o f
        the CBR as well as making the CBR capable to meet hture challenges, training and capacity buildingo f
        the officers and officials have become imperative, to steer along the reforms agenda o f the organization.
        The training will be imparted at different locations/institutions like IBA, LUMs, NUST, CBM and
        Training Directorate o f Customs and Income Tax.
        Change Management Workshops and Communication; In order to accustom the workforce with the
        changed culture and administrative changes it is necessary that a system be evolved wherein the
        employees are taken into confidence on the reform initiatives. Change management workshops, seminars
        andnewsletter would effectively serve this purpose.
        Large Taxpayers Unit (L TU), Lahore; Many tax administration around the world have realized the need
        and importance o f handling large taxpayers through focused institutional arrangements viz. Large
        Taxpayers Units(LTUs). While such an arrangement provides quality service for the taxpayer at a single
        access point, the tax administration i s able to improve the surveillance o f the relatively small number o f
        taxpayers contributing a bulk o f the revezue. In the first phase CBR has already established a Large
        Taxpayers Unit (LTU) at Karachi. In the second phase, CBR intends to establish another Large
        Taxpayers Unitat Lahore.
       Medium Taxpayer Units (MTUs); A Model Medium Taxpayers Unit has already started working in
        Lahore w.e.f. October 01, 2002. CBR plans to establish MTUs at Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar,
        Rawlapindi and Faisalabad. The objective o f the Medium Taxpayer Units (MTUs) i s to establish a
        modem, integrated, effective and efficient units o f Tax Administration for Income Tax in Pakistan which
       promotes mutual trust and satisfaction both for the taxpayers and the collectors.
        Dispute ResolutionComplex, Karachi; At present the offices o f Adjudicating officers for Indirect Taxes
        are located at various sites at Karachi. A pilot dispute resolution complex i s planned to be established in
       the present Sales Tax (East), Collectorate, Karachi and all Adjudicating Officers dealing with Customs,


                                                           - 51 -

       Excise and Sales Tax cases will be, shifted there after suitable alteration and up-gradation o f the
       building. This institution will ensure effective central monitoring of adjudication set-up with better
       management control and evaluation.
       STARR (Sales Tax Automated Refund Repository); The re-engineering and automation o f Sales Tax
       Refund System has been identified as an essentialcomponent o f the reform o f Sales Tax inall the reform
       strategy documents. Towards this objective STARR (Sales Tax Automated Refund Repository) project
       was initiated by the CBR. The project involves automating the whole process from filing o f a refund
       claim to its sanction. A major component of the project is to create and maintain a central database
       comprising Customs and Sales Tax information for the whole country, which will allow online
       verification o f the documents forming the basis o f the refund claim.
       Establishment o f Taxpayer EducationandFacilitation Centers; Taxpayers inPakistan lack knowledge o f
       their tax obligations. Under the newly introduced Universal Self-Assessment Scheme the onus o f
       declaration o f true particulars o f income rests on the taxpayer relievingthereby the tax administration to
       focus on highrisk taxpayers. This requires establishment o f tax education andfacilitation centres to serve
       as intermediary between the taxpayer and tax administration.
       Customs Pilot Project; This Pilot Project i s designed to modernize Pakistan Customs into an efficient
       organization. It is an ideal mix o f trade facilitation and customs controls as per best international
       practices. The project is designedto reduce the period required for completion o f customs formalities at
       theport from days to hours.
       Universal Self-Assessment Scheme; This i s a new concept that is being introduced in Pakistan with the
       start o f new Income Tax law operation from 15th July, 2002. Universal Self-Assessment Scheme
       envisages that all the taxpayers' returns would automatically qualify for Self-Assessment. The Universal
       Self-Assessment Scheme will help to minimize direct contract between the officers and taxpayers.
       According to the scheme it is now the taxpayer himself and not the taxation officer who will determine a
       person's income.
Total cost o f this component is around US$ 6 million.

(iii) Ministry of Commerce: To strengthen MoC's capacity to modernize and improve Pakistan's trading
regime and practices, deal with technicalities o f international trade and deal with WTO related matters o f
implementation and negotiation.          This will include strengthening research, analysis and information
management in the public and private sector. The aim is to build the ministry's capacity to play an increased
role intrade promotion, coordination, facilitation andpolicy analysis in the emerging global environment. Total
cost i s around US$ 2 million. Under the Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP), the MoC will
undertake the following activities:

        0     Hireconsultants for formulating hture work planso fthe restructured Wings ofthe Ministry.
        0     508 officers and officials working in the Ministry & its attached Departments and other relevant
              private sector personnel will be imparted short/ medium term training in their respective fields o f
              responsibilities. Through these trainings they would attain required knowledge and state-of-the-art
              skills to deal with the new challenges ininternationaltrade.
        0     Set up a data cell/digital library. Availability o f backup support data and documents is essential
              for any research or analysis activity. This necessitates development o f a resource and reference
              center, where the relevant documents are properly organized so that their quick retrieval is ensured.
              The documents should be made available in the form of hard copies as well as soft versions. In
              addition to this, the documents should be available online through an internal networking
              arrangement. The Data Cell/ Digital Library, housed within the Ministrywill fulfill these roles. To
              establish this digital library, the services o f experts in Trade Issues, Library Sciences and
              Information Technology will be required. All the documents will be indexed and a system for their
              classification and arrangement will be developed. WTO and UNCTAD will also be requested to


                                                           - 52 -

              extend technical assistance.
          0   Set up a Legal Advisory Cell primarily to arrange expert advice and guidance to the business
              community in cases where they are facing action under trade remedy laws or where they need to
              resort to action under these laws to defend their legitimate commercial interests. It has been
              proposed that the Cell may be housedwithinWTO Wing o f the Ministryo f Commerce.,
          0   Launch a Stakeholder's Awareness Program through intensive, frequent and regular interaction
              with all stakeholdersinthe foreign trade sector. This programme is designedto keep themupdated
              about developments at international level and measuresbeingtaken by the govemment to face new
              challenges & opportunities. This will also help the government to adjust its policies in the light o f
              inputsreceived through this inter-action.

(iv) Establishment Division: To strengthen Establishment Division's capacity to address the broader civil
service reform program, through a Civil Service Reform Unit (CSRU). Under this US$ 2 million would be
allocated to the CSRU. Its charter will be to oversee GOP's comprehensive civil service reform program.
Specifically, it will support the following pillars o f civil service reform:

      Devolution
          Completion o f devolution, with responsibilities and staff assignments moved from the federal to the
      provincial level, and from the provincial to the district levels, with less cross management o f staff
      between levels of govemment.
          Organizing SeminarsiWorkshops of provincial and national level stakeholders to develop consensus on
      additional reforms regarding restructuring, compensation issues and investment in professional
      development.
         Maintainingan active dialogue with counterparts.
      RecruitmentandPromotionReforms

      1   Modemizing the cadre system andreforming the system o f occupational groups so that internal mobility
      within the public sector is increased, and lateral entry from the private sector for skilled staff is
      encouraged, including the creation o f a national executive service or equivalent broad-based staff
      grouping at senior levels.
          Strengthening o f meritprotection, ensuringthat the federal and provincial Public Service Commissions
      have appropriate competence to oversee merit in recruitment for senior grades.
      PayandPensionReforms
          Providing support for deepening the Pay and pension reforms (including monetization o fbenefits) which
      provide for more attractive and more transparent packages o f total compensation at senior levels, within
      fiscal constraints.
      ProfessionalDevelopment
       *  Improving the quality o f training and professional development available to serving staff. This will
      include managing the Executive Development program (EDP) and Professional Development program
      (PDev).
      Monitoringand Evaluation
       -. Maintaining
          Monitoring implementationo f already initiated governance, structural andpolicy reforms.
                      updated databases o f civil service employment totals at all levels o f government
          Developing appropriate human resource management information systems so that the federal, provincial
      and district governments are able to plan their human resource management on the basis o f actual staff
      andidentified skills, andnotjust sanctioned positions.
          Carrying out evaluation o f reforms
       *  Generating periodic reports for submission to the Secretary, Establishment Division and the Cabinet
      Committee on Civil Services Reforms.
          Carrying out tracer studies for the returnees o f the EDP and PDev Programs.


                                                            - 53 -

   0    Coordination
         Serving as Secretariat for the Cabinet Committee on Civil Service Reforms

        *
        . Making concrete proposals for aligning donor initiatives - particularly between the ADB, WB and
         Maintaining a close liaison with CSR units establishedinother MinistriedDivisions

        DfID.

(v) Planning& DevelopmentDivision(P&DD): strengtheningP&DD's capacity as a planning and monitoring
agency. This involves capacity buildingto plan, design, appraise, implement, monitor and evaluate development
projects. The allocated sum will also be used to stengthen project management practices besides preparing
overall sectoral policies and planning framework over the medium and long term. Total cost is around US$5.4
million.

The major issueswhich are hindering the P&DD's performance include;
               ageing of P&DD's Officers (only 10 officers out o f 151are inthe age bracket of 20-40 years),
         0     lack o f good trainers and other training facilities at the Pakistan Planning and Management
               Institute (PPMI) and provision o f localizedtraining only,
         0     lack o f professional resourcesfor economic policy formulation and analysis
         0     inadequate and under-qualified human stock to work on the social, infrastructure and service
               sectors.

P&DD intends to improve and strengthen economic management through adequate staffing with knowledgable
and professionally competent officers. More specifically it intendsto;
        Strengthen economic policy formulation and analysis through improved macro modeling and buildingup
        o f researcwlibrary facilities. The present facilities o f modelling require improvement in terms o f
        equipment andtraining.
        Strengthen evaluation & monitoring of development projects through capacity building o f the Projects
        Wing.
        Strengthen the Pakistan Planning & Management Institute (PPMI) through twinning with reputed
        intrenational training institutions to impart most modem and relevant training in economic
        management.This is crucial for the professionalization o f the national planning process. The institution
        would confine its training to project related activities, including proper project planning and
        implementation, preparation o f PC-I forms etc.
        Develop human resources in the P&DD through skill development, induction o f young professionals,
        senior managers and consultants.
        Improve work-environment through provision o f administrative facilities (machinery, equipment and
        furtures) and introduction o f humanresourcesmanagement systems.

(vi) Economic Affairs Division (EAD): To strengthen EAD's capacity in coordination and monitoring o f
relationship with donors and donor funded projects. This entails development o f technical and managerial
capacity o f the Division in the management o f loan portfolios, streamlining o f all procedures and operations and
effective monitoring o f the donor sponsored projects. Total cost is US$lmillion.Under its EIP the EAD will be
strengthenedthrough the following activities:
         0     buildingcapacity o fofficers via long and short term training
               improving procedures through development o f standard operating procedures for each wing,
               improving MIS, clarification o f roles and job description and transition towards computerized
               environment inpractice.
               establishing a monitoring cell for overseeing aid utilization and disbursements o f donor funded
              projects.



                                                           - 54 -

(vii) Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA): Strengthening the newly established PPRA to
regulate public sector procurements, develop a modem transparent and cost effective public procurement system
and put in place an effective procuremnet monitoring system. To acheive this, there arises the broad need for
capacity buildingthrough training o f existing/future workforce o f PPRA (both locally as well as abroad) inareas
o f specialization intheir own respective feilds inorder to meet present requirements and future challenges.

The returning trainees shall be appointed inposts relating to their respective areas o f specialization so that they
can make coordinated efforts for development o f a dynamic and cost effective public procurement system. The
returning trainees shall also train concerned officials of public sector organizations as well as officials of the
Auditor General o f Pakistan so that they rae familiar with teh revised procurement regulations and procedures
and able to implement these procedures.

Under the PSCBP, a comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) for monitoring public procurement
shall also.be established with a veiw to monitor the adherence to revised procurement procedures andpractices.
Total cost US$ 1million.


      Project Component Strengtheningthe RegulatoryFunction US$ 5.60 million
                                                                    -
 This will support capacity-building of the newly established Regulatory Agencies through: (a) specialized
 training o f officers (including under the PDev/EDP programs as outlined in component; (b) specialized
 technical consultancies for undertaking analytical studies (such as Guidelines and Standards for Power
 Acquisition Programs; the Commercial Code; Licensing o f Operators inthe Telecom Sector; Universal Service
 Obligation); and (c) procurement o f equipment and related materials. Total cost o f this component i s around
 US$5.6 million.

 (i)NationalElectric Power RegulatoryAuthority (NEPRA): To strengthenNEPRA's capacity to regulate
 the natural monopoly aspects o f the electric power sector, develop a competitive structure for electric power
 generation and supply and ensure the reliability and adequate supply o f electric power. NEPRA has broadly
 identifiedthree areas o f assistancenamely skill development, technical studies andconsultant services. With no
 history o f infrastructure regulation there is dearth o f trained professionals with the capability to address the
 complex issues o f electricity regulation. The present activities o f NEPRA have remained confined to licensing
 and tariff formulation. There is an urgent need to up grade the skills o f the NEPRA staff to deal with issues o f
 electricity regulation. Skill development will consist o f degree training inthe areas o f regulatory economics and
 finance, attendance at seminars and study tours (for senior management) and training in data management and
 public relations (for support staff). Trained professionals would be better equipped to supervise international
 consultants and appreciate the services o f the consultants. Additionally, NEPRA intends to form a unit o f the
 trained professionals to implement regulation and manage esential task o f information dissemination and
 management.

 NEPRA intendsto conduct technical studies in two main areas; cost o f service to develop tariffs for regulated
 utilities on the basis o f long runmarginal cost (LRMC) and incentive tariff to develop a tariff model that lays
 down the rules for formulating incentive basedtariff.

 Consultant services are required inthe areas o f standards, tariff and compliance. The ideal approach suggested
 byNEPRA would be teh provision of a senior level expatriate industryprofessional with experience inthe three
 identified areas for six to nine months. NEPRA staff would assist this consultant who would reveiw the work of
 incumbents in teh groups, select new staff members, identify resources and lay down procedures for
 undertaking o f assignments within these groups. The consultant would be a division head with an under study
 who would take over as the divisionheadaRer hidher departure. With a combination o f case studies, seminars,


                                                            - 55 -

advisory and management services, the consultant wuldbe expectedto equip NEPRA with adequateknowledge
to manage Standards, Tariff and Compliances departments. Other consultants would also be required to
prescribe standards for Uniform System o f Accounts (USOA), Commercial sub code and Power acquisition
programs.

All these capacity buildingmeasures will increaseeffectiveness ofsectoralreformsthat are contingent on
independent and effective regulation. Total cost is US$ 2 million.

(ii) Oil & Gas Development Authority (OGRA): To strengthen OGRA's capacity to improve its ability to
foster competition, encourage private investment and ownership and deal with challenges arising from the
proposed restructuring of the gas sector. OGRA has identified studies pertaining to key regulatory activities
andrelevantdegree andnon-degreetraining for support under the PSCBP. Total cost is US$2 million.

Various studies pertainingto key regulated activities will be undertaken to enable OGRA to regulate the oil and
gas sector. They include:
   0    Study on development andenforcement o f technical and performance standardsrelating to LPG
   0    Study on development and enforcement o f technical and performance standardsrelating to CNG.
   0    Study on ensuring effective competition inteh oil marketing sector.
   0    Study on quality control issues inthe petroleumproducts trade andtheir addressal.
   0    Studies to develop rules/regulations.
   0    Study on development o f open access andcommon carrier regime.
   0    Study on reveiw for HumanResourcerequirements of OGRA by independent consultants.
   0    Study on optimization o frefineries production with reference to the competition and efficiency issues.
   0    Studies pertaining to other operational aspects o f oil&gas related provisions inthe OGRA ordinance.

OGRA has proposed an extensive professional development programme for its officers under the Capacity
Building Programme, in which younger professionals would be sent for degree programmes pertaining to
regulatory affairs inleading intemationaUloca1universities. Moreover, middle and senior level managerswill be
sent on various professional development programmes, including scondment with regulatory authorities
operating indifferent parts o f the world.

Various measures including implementation o f Uniform System o f accounts, are being undertaken, to develop
capacity to regulate the natural gas sector inunbundled form.

(iii) Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA): To                     strengthen capacity   to   regulate the
telecommunications sector and implement the telecom deregulation policy which will open all market segments
within the industryto private investors. Total cost is US$ 1.6 million.
PTA is gearing up to respond to regulatory challenges arising out o f various options pertaining to
implementation o f the deregulation policy already announced by the Ministry o f Information Technology &
Telecommunications. It has cultivated expertise to regulate the sector in the existing integrated form. Various
measures including unbundling, USO, tariff-rebalancing, interconnection, drafting o f licenses, etc are being
undertaken, to develop capacity to regulate the more competitive telecommunication sector. Inorder to
successfully implemnet these measures, PTA is seeking support rom the PSCBP inthe following activities:
   0    Professional Development: This component involves education o f younger (grade 17-19) officers o f
        PTA from reputed universities o f the world at graduate/post graduate level to significantly enhance their
        technical capabilities as policy analysts and implementers. The specialised fields identified are telecom
        regulation, telecommunication policy, financial and tariff analysis and telecommunications technologies.
   0    Short Term Training; This includes capacity buildingfor framing the policies andregulatory framework
        inthe country through short term training courses/ visits in specialised fields o f various duration for


                                                         - 56 -

         PTA officers at various levels in relevant institutions.        Participation in intemational and regional
         meetings, conferences, workshops, symposia, seminars and exhibitions would also be included. USTTI
         standard courses every semester would be utilised and efforts would be made to get training courses
         tailored for the Pakistani Students where possible.
   0     Consultancy and Advisory Services; PTA needs at this stage consultant services for various studies to
         assist in discharge o f its responsibilities for ensuring level playing field for various operators, ensuring
         competition, consumer protection and services to various segments o f business and the society in
         general. There is also a need for in-house advisory service and concluding twinning anangements with
         appropriate organization(s) o f advanced counties. While, additional consultancies would also be
         identified during project implementation, the first phase requirements are for consultancies in the
         following areas:
         (a) Ongoing Consultancy on Telecom deregulation Policy (Phase-11)
         (b) Cost andRegulatoryAccounting Framework
         (c) Universal Service Obligation (USO) Framework
         (d)Quality o f Service MonitoringFramework

     Project Component Unallocated US$11.00 million
                                        -
This unallocated amount will be disbursed to interested ministries/agencies once their individualproposals are
approved by the NSCC.

The criteria for allowingnew agencyproposals would include:
  (i) alignmenttoprojectobjectivesandwiththeagency'soverallstrategicvisiodplan;
      full
 (ii)EntityImprovementPlan(EIP)alongwithindicatorsformonitoringprogressoftheprofessional
      a
 development program;
 (iii) definedproposalswithtimelinesofactivitiesandfullycostedcomponents;and
       clearly
 (iv) agencies having their first year's program ready for implementation.

Interested agencies/ministries would prepare their capacity building proposals along with an Entity
Improvement Plan (EIP) in consultation with the PCU/PC. These EIPs would be prepared in line with agreed
criteria (as noted above) and will be shared with the Bank for review before submission to the NSCC through
their respective SecretariesIAgency heads. The proposals would then be submitted to the NSCC for
consideration and approval. Once approved by the NSCC, the individual PC-1s would be submitted to the
Planning Commission for CDWP approval. Following the CDWP approval, PCUPC will allocate resources
from the un-allocated amount to the new participating agency.

Some o f the proposals under this component are already being developed. These include:
  (i) Ministry of Water & Power: to support the initial institutional reform and capacity buildingneeds inthe
 power sector.

 (ii) Federal Bureau of Statistics: to enhance the skills andknowledge o f technical staffto effectively manage
 information collection and accurate reporting o f key country statistics, conducting various surveys including
 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey, Household Income and Expenditure Survey, their comprehensive
 analysis including poverty assessment methodology as well as effective and accurate collection o f information
 for national accounts.This is to be acheived through short term specialized training, specialized consultancy,
 and IT support, inareas such as data collection techniques, analysis, etc.

 (iii) Provincial Finance and Planning: to strengthen the provincial government's capacity in the areas o f
 provincial reform formulation, implementation, evaluation and monitoring. The allocated sum will also be


                                                            - 57 -

used to improvebudget, expenditure management,poverty expenditure monitoringand develop mediumterm
budgetary framework planning, project design, and implementationat the Provincialas well as district levels
andcivil service reforms.




                                                   - 58 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
          PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

                                                                                                  Local                  Foreign                   Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                              US $million           US $million              US $million
  ProfessionalDevelopment                                                                    I       5.00          I       18.00           I        23.00
  Economic Policy and Management                                                                   12.00                     9.40                   21.40
  Regulatory Function                                                                                 1.60                   4.00                     5.60
  Unallocated                                                                                        3.OO                    8.00                   11.00
  Total BaselineCost                                                                               21.60                   39.40                    61.00
  PhysicalContingencies                                                                              0.00                    0.00                     0.00
  PriceContingencies                                                                                 0.00                    0.00                     0.00
                                           Total ProiectCost:                                      21.60                   39.40                    61.00
                                   Total FinancingRequired
~~                                                                                                 21.60                   39.40                    61.00

                                                                                                  Local                  Foreign                    Total
            ~~




                           Project Cost By Category                                             US $million            US $million              US$million
  Goods                                                                                                 3.90                      0.10                   4.00
  Works                                                                                                 4.30                      0.70                   5.00
  Services                                                                                              9.50                      4.00                  13S O
  Training                                                                                              3.OO                    34.50                   37.50
  Other- Miscellaneous                                                                                  0.90                      0.10                    1.oo
                                                           Total ProjectCost:                         21.60                     39.40                   61.00
                                                 Total FinancingRequired                              21.60                     39.40                   61.OO

    I
     Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)andthe total project cost, net of taxes, is 61 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.16% of total
    project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                      - 59 -

                                                 Annex 4
      PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Not applicableas this is a TA project. PI. referto section E - Summary ProjectAnalysis.




                                                   - 60 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
          PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                            Years Ending


                                                        IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD                         1
                          1  Year1     1  Year2     I  Year3     I Year4   I  Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
 ProjectCosts
 InvestmentCosts                12.0           13.0         13.0       12.0      10.0     0.0    0.0
 RecurrentCosts                  0.2            0.2          0.2        0.2       0.2     0.0    0.0
Total Project Costs             12.2           13.2         13.2       12.2      10.2     0.0     0.0
Total Financing                 12.2           13.2         13.2       12.2      10.2     0.0     0.0


  IBRDllDA                      11.0           11.9         11.9       11.0       9.2    0.0      0.0
  Government                     1.2            1.3           1.3       1.2       1.o    0.0      0.0
      Central                    0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
      Provincial                 0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
  Co-financiers                  0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Jser FeeslBeneficiaries          0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                            0.0            0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0
Total ProjectFinancing          12.2           13.2         13.2       12.2      10.2    0.0      0.0
Mainassumptions:
The projectwill be implementedover a five year periodstarting fromFY05 andendinginFY09




                                                    -61-

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
        PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

Procurement

  ProcurementCapacity
 An assessment of the Implementing Agencies` procurement capacity was carried out by a Procurement
 Accredited Staff (PAS) during appraisal. The main findings are as follows:

 Ministry o f Finance will be primary responsible and accountable for implementation o f the project
 including carrying out procurement, within each agency's respective jurisdiction. Although MOF has
 been WB's main counterpart it has not been directly involved in implementing a Bank financed project.
 The project components will be implemented through Participating Agencies such as Central Board o f
 Revenue (CBR), Ministry o f Commerce(MOC), Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority(0GRA). National
 Electric and Power Authority (NEPRA),             Establishment Division, FPSC, PPRA. Among the
 Participating agencies only Central Board o f Revenue (CBR),                Oil and Gas Regulatory
 Authority(OGRA), National Electric and Power Authority (NEPRA) have implemented Bank financed
 projects. Though these agencies are familiar with the Bank procedures, the staff involved may not be
 necessarily the same staff who has implemented Bank financed projects earlier. None o f the above
 agencies have staff dedicated exclusively for procurement and there i s a general lack o f expertise in the
 Bank's procurement procedures, particularly procurement o f goods and services. Most o f the proposed
 assistance is focussed on staff development programs. Though there will be very few ICB contracts
 under goods, a considerable amount o f consulting services are to be financed under the credit. Inorder to
  strengthen the procurement capacity, Govemment o f Pakistan has agreed to          engage at least one
  individual procurement consultant initially. This procurement consultant will be engagedby the Ministry
  o f Finance(M0F) and will be based in MOF's Project Coordination Unit. The consultant will provide
 procurement advice to MOF as well as all other Participating Agencies who will be responsible for
  carrying out their own respective procurement.

 ProcurementMethods
  Goods and Works to be financed under the project shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
  for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995,revised January 1999. Consultants
  Services financed under the project shall be procured in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Selection
  and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised May 2002. IDA's
  standardbiddingdocuments for procurement under Intemational Competitive Bidding(ICB), and sample
  biddingdocuments for procurement under National Competitive Bidding(NCB) which are already being
  used on other Bank financed projects in Pakistan, will be used for procurement o f Goods and Works
  under the project. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposal document will be used inthe selection o f
  Consulting firms.

  All expected procurement o f goods, works and consultants' services will be listed in the project's
  General Procurement Notice (GPN). The GPN will be published in the United Nations Development
  Business (UNDB). All ICB contracts will be published on UNDB on line independent o f the value

  Civil Works (US$Sm):
  Civil works generally comprise small value contracts for new and upgrading o f existing buildings, and
  are not expected to attract the interest o f foreign contractors. Accordingly, all civil works under the
 project will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.


                                                    - 62 -

However, ifforeign firms wish to participate inthese contracts, they will be permitted

Goods (US$4m):
Goods under the Project would generally include computers, office equipment,motor vehicles, fumiture,
proprietary software.

International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures will be followed for each Goods contract estimated
to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent. Domestic Preference will be allowed to local manufacturers
on ICB contracts. Goods estimated to cost between US$25,000 equivalent andUS$200,000 per contract
will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Small
value off-the-shelf goods estimated to cost US$25,000 equivalent or less per contract are expected to be
procured following NationaVInternational Shopping procedures in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines.

ImprovementofBiddingProceduresunder NationalCompetitiveBidding
 The following improvements inbidding procedures will apply to all procurement o f Goods and Works
underNationalCompetitive Bidding, inorder to
 ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions o f Section 1o f the
Guidelines:
     0    Invitationto bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation,
          at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o fbids;
     0    bid documents shall be made available, by mail or inperson, to all who are willing to pay the
          required fee;
     0    foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference o f any kind shall be
          given to national biddersinthe bidding process;
     0    biddingshallnot be restricted to pre-registered firms;
     0    qualification criteria shall be stated inthe biddingdocuments;
     0    bids shall be opened inpublic, immediately after the deadline for submission ofbids;
     0    bids shallnot be rejected merely on the basis o f a comparison with an official estimate without
          the prior concurrence ofthe Association;
     0    before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall be
          obtained;
     0    bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unitprices andnot on the
          basis o f a composite schedule o f rates;
     0    contracts shall not be awarded on the basis o f nationally negotiated rates;
     0    contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and
     0    post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.

 Consultants' Services (US$13.5m):
 The credit will finance several consultancy assignments and short and long term nationalhtemational
 individuals for the implementationagencies for management advice inpolicy reforms, studies, etc.

 Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost more than $100,000 per contract will be procured in
 accordance with Quality and Cost Based Selection procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than
 $100,000 per contract may be procured through the method o f Selection Based on Consultants'
 Qualifications. For contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per
 contract, the shortlist o f consultants may comprise entirely national consultants inaccordance with the
 provisions o f paragraphs 2.7 and footnote 8 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Contracts with individual
 consultants will be procured inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 in Section V o f


                                                    - 63 -

the Consultants Guidelines. Inview o f some specialized training that may be neededby a few agencies,
the services o f universities/ institutions to impart this training may be procured through `single source
selection' inaccordancewith the provisions o f paragraghs 3.8 to 3.1 1o f the Consultants Guidelines.

Training and Workshops (US$ 37.5 m):
The credit will finance long term and short term staff development programs both local and foreign for
the staff o f the participating agencies. Inaddition there will be a series o f national workshop conducted
by the participating agencies to enhance the capacity o f staff. A list of national and international
universities, institutes and training establishments have already being identified based on their
qualifications andexperience to conduct.

ProcurementPlanning
Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plans.
Procurement plans will be closely monitored andupdated every six months.

Review of Procurement by the Bank (Table B)
Prior Review:
0   The first NCB contract for Goods o f the each Participating agency, irrespective of value, and
    thereafter each contract for Goods estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more.
0   The first NCB contract for works o f the each Participating agency, irrespective o f value, and
    thereafter each contract for Works estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more.
    The first Consultants' Services contract with consulting firms o f the each Participating agency,
    irrespective o f value, and the first consulting services contract with individual consultants o f the
    each Participating agency, irrespective o f value, andthereafter all contracts with firms estimated to
    cost US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more, andwith individuals estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent
    or more.

All other contracts will be subject to Post-Review by IDA. Each Participating Agency will send to
IDA on a quarterly basis, a list of all contracts subject to post-review.

ProcurementInformationanddocumentation
Procurement informationwill be recorded and reportedas follows by each ParticipatingAgency:
(a) Complete procurement documentation for each contract, including bidding documents,
advertisements, bids received, bid evaluations, letters o f acceptance, contract agreements, securities,
related correspondence etc., will be maintained by each implementing agency in an orderly manner so
as to readily available for audit.
(b) Contract award information will be promptly recorded and contract rosters, in the IDA'Ssample
format, maintainedby each ParticipatingAgency.
(c) Comprehensive quarterly reports by each ParticipatingAgency indicating:
       (i)     revisedcost estimates, where applicable, for each contract;
       (ii)dates
               status o f on-going procurement, including a comparison o f originally planned and actual
                     o f the procurement actions, includingpreparation o f biddingdocuments, advertising,
               bidding, evaluation, contract award andcompletion time for eachcontract; and
       (iii)updatedprocurementplans,includingreviseddates,whereapplicable,fortheprocurement
               actions.




                                                   - 64 -

 Procurementmethods(TableA)


                            Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)

                                                               Procurement MethodI
     Expenditure Category                     ICB                  NCB              Other2            N.B.F.              Cost
1. Works                             I        0.00           I     5.00        I      0.00       I     0.00      I Total5.00
                                             (0.00)                (4.50)            (0.00)           (0.00)        (4.50)
2. Goods                                      1.oo                  1.50              1.50             0.00          4.00
                                             (1.OO)                (1.20)            (1.20)           (0.00)        (3.40)
3. Services                                   0.00                 0.00              13.50             0.00          13.50
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)           (12.00)           (0.00)        (12.00)
4. Training and Workshops                     0.00                 0.00              37.50             0.00          37.50
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)           (34.30)           (0.00)        (34.30)
4. Miscellaneous                              0.00                  0.00              1.oo              0.00          1.oo
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.80)           (0.00)         (0.80)
    Total                                     1.oo                  6.50             53.50              0.00         61.00
                                             (1.OO)                (5.70)           (48.30)            (0.00)       (55.00)

  I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
    contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
    costs relatedto (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                    re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         - 65 -

                     Table A I: ConsultantSelectionArrangements (optional)
                                       (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                       Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 Expenditure Category     QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total cosd
A. Firms                  4.30       0.00     0.00      0.00      4.10      0.00      0.00      8.40
                          (3.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (3.50)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (7.10)
B. Individuals            0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      5.10      0.00     .5.10
                          (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (4.90)   (0.00)    (4.90)
                  Total   4.30       0.00     0.00      0.00      4.10      5.10      0.00      13.50
                          (3.60)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (3.50)     (4.90)   (0.00)    (12.00)

"Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
               QBS = Quality-basedSelection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-CostSelection
               CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants'Qualifications
               Other = Selection of individualconsultants (per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines),
               CommercialPractices,etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figures in parenthesesare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Credit.




                                                 - 66 -

Prior review thresholds (Table 6)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                  Contract Value                                          Contracts Subject to
                                     Threshold                   Procurement                   Prior Review
 Expenditure Category             (US$ thousands)                  Method                      (US$ millions)
1.Works                               >200,000                       ICB                           All
                                      <200,000                      NCB                  FirstNCB Contract from
                                                                                         eachparticipating agency
2. Goods                             >200,000                        ICB                            All
                                  25,000-200,000                    NCB                  FirstNCB Contract from
                                                                                         eachparticipating agency
                                       <25,000                        N S                         None

Consulting Firms                     > 100,000                      QCBS                            All
                                      <100,000                      SBCQ               First SBCQ Contract from
                                                                                         eachparticipating agency
IndividualConsultants                 >50,000                    SectionV-CG                        All
                                       <50,000                         -do                FirstIC Contract from
                                                                                         eachparticipating agency
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 8 million
                         Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           High
      Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:               Oneevery 6 months
                                                                        (includes specialprocurementsupervisionfor
                                                                        post-review/audits)


"Thresholds generallydiffer by country andproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement''and contactthe Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                   - 67 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements
         PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLICSECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

FinancialManagement
1. Summary of the FinancialManagementAssessment

  Executive Summary
  The project will be implemented at the Central level. The mainimplementing agencies (IAs) have hadno
  prior experience o f directly implementing Bank-financed projects.             For this reason, a Financial
  Management Coordinator (FMC) will be hired at the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) level in the
  Ministry of Finance.        The FMC will be responsible for training o f the accounting staff o f the
  implementing agencies, and for the consolidation o f FMRs and annual accounts received from the
  various Project ImplementingUnits (PIUs).

  The accounts o f the implementing agencies and for the project as a whole shall be maintained on cash
  basis.     To facilitate flow o f funds, Special Accounts would be opened by Finance Division,
  Establishment Division, Planning & Development Division and each o f the 3 Regulatory Institutions
  (NEGRA, OGRA, and PTA).                Each Implementing Agency shall produce quarterly FMRs for
  submission to the Bank. The PCU, located at the Ministry o f Finance, would also receive quarterly
  FMRs from each o f the implementingagencies, consolidate them for the entire project andsubmit to the
  Bank within 45 days after the end o f the quarter.         Inrespect of the project counterpart funds, each
  Government implementing agency shall establish an Assignment Account against which government
  contributions shall be paid. Inrespect o f the three Regulatory agencies however, counterpart funds shall
  beprovided directly from their own resources.

  The individual implementing agencies maintaining Special Accounts shall each cany out their own
  withdrawal application processes and their annual accounts audited by the Auditor General o f Pakistan.
  The consolidated accounts of the project, comprising the individual accounts o f the six implementing
  agencies shall be opined on by the Auditor General o f Pakistan. The operation and maintenance o f the
  books o f accounts and other records o f the project shall also remain the responsibility o f the individual
  implementingagenciesnominatedto operatethe Special Accounts.

  Each o f the six implementing agencies will identify one qualified and experienced Accountant and one
  Accounting Assistant to manage the financial aspects o f its operations under the project.          The FMC
  shall provide induction training to, and overall arms-length supervision of, the nominated financial
  management staff o f the implementing agencies o f the project.

  Notwithstanding the lack o f prior experience o f the implementing agencies in executing Bank-financed
  projects, the risk rating o f the project is set at `Moderate' for the following reasons: (a) the project shall
  employ or be assigned qualified financial management personnel, acceptable to the Bank, to manage the
  financial activities at all six implementingagencies; this will be Wher reinforcedby the recruitment o f a
  qualified FMC at the PCU to oversee the financial operations at each o f the implementing agencies as
  well as for the consolidation o f project accounts; (b) the project i s a non-complex one with defined
  deliverables in the capacity building arena; there are less complicated procurement obligations in the
  project than would otherwise be found intraditional investment lending projects.




                                                       - 68 -

Country Issues
Pakistan i s finalizing its reactions to the findings in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) and i s poised to embracing the reform measures contained therein. In addition, the `Project to
Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing' (PIFRA) i s achieving satisfactory progress despite its slow
pace o f implementation.      The government has demonstrated, by its support for the project and its
developmental objectives, its commitment to enhancing public accountability and financial transparency.-

RiskRating
This is a less complex project with a rationalized design of number o f implementing agencies. The
implementing agencies, through mitigating measures, shall each be endowed with qualified financial
management staff, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to manage their financial activities. From
the risk ratingperspective, the project is ratedas `Medium' risk.

StrengthsandWeaknesses
The core implementing agencies (Finance, Establishment, and Planning Divisions) have no direct prior
experience o f financial managing o f World Bank projects. This i s an inhibiting factor in the proficient
management o f the financial resources o f the project. However, mitigating measures as defined in the
`Agreed Action Plan' as well as the demonstrated commitment received at the highest level at the
Ministryof Finance in support of the fiduciary control measures to be put inplace for this project, the
project is expected to perform well in rendering its financial management deliverables in a timely
manner.

ImplementingEntities
Public Sector Capacity BuildingProject (PSCBP) will be implementedby multiple agencies inclusive o f
Government Ministries and Autonomous bodies with different accounting systems. A National Steering
and Coordination Committee (NSCC) comprising Secretaries o f Finance, Establishment, Economic
Affairs and Planning Divisions and one independent academic (or a key civil society representative)
would oversee the project implementation andreview new proposals for inclusion inPSCBP.

A small Project Coordination Unit(PCU) would be set up at the Ministry o f Finance. The PCU shall be
headed by a Project Coordinator andthe Unit shall include a Financial Management Coordinator (FMC)
for the entire project.      The FMC will be responsible for training o f the accounting staff o f the
implementing agencies, and for the consolidation o f the quarterly FMRs and annual accounts received
from the various Project Implementing Units (PIUs).

FundsFlow
The project will be budgeted in Government's ADP budget. There shall be six core implementing
agencies for the project as follows: Finance and Establishment Divisions, Planning & Development
Division, NEPRA, OGRA, PTA. For the IDA'Sshare o f financing, six Special Accounts shall be set up
-onefor eachimplementingagency.            The borrower's share o f financing would be paid through three
separate Assignment Accounts (one for each PIU) to be opened at the Finance and Establishment
Divisions, and Planning & Development Division. Each Special Account would be operated by twojoint
signatories to be nominated by the Additional Secretary o f each Division.        In respect of the three
Regulatory institutions maintaining Special Accounts, no assignment accounts shall be established since
the individual agencies shall meet their counterpart funding from their own resources. All IDA funds
shall be transferred to the nominated Special Accounts o f the implementing agencies held with the
National Bank o f Pakistan through the State Bank o f Pakistan.

It may be noted that the participating agencies eligible for funding under the special accounts o f the


                                                   - 69 -

  government implementingagencies (Finance and Establishment Divisions) are as follows:

     0    Finance Division: Finance (FD), Economic Affairs (EAD), Commerce (MOC), Central Boardo f
          Revenue (CBR), andFederal Bureau o f Statistics (FBS)
     0    Establishment Division: Establishment Division(ED), Civil Service ReformUnit(CSRU),
          Federal Public service Commission (FPSC), National School o f Public Policy (NSPP) and
          Associated training Institutions.

  The rest of the implementing agencies shall be `stand-alones' as concerns the participatory agencies
  accessing funds under the project.

  Staffing
  The PCU, to be located at the Ministry o f Finance, would be headed by a Project Coordinator and
  supported by a Financial Management Coordinator, who would, inter alia: (a) coordinate the overall FM
  aspects o f the project; (b) provide training for the staff of implementing agencies on the maintenance o f
  accounts and production of FMRs; and (c) consolidate the information received from implementing
  agencies for submission to the Project Steering Committee (NSCC) and the Bank. The six implementing
  agencies maintaining Special Accounts shall appoint or nominate qualified personnel (One Accountant
  and One Accounting Assistant), with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to keep their books of
  account, furnish periodic (quarterly) financial management reports to the Bank and the FMC,. and
  prepare final annual accounts for audit.     The FMC of the project at the PCU shall be an experienced
  accountant, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. The draft TOR for FMC was provided to MOF
  on September 19, 2003.

  AccountingPoliciesand Procedures
  The Government's financial rules, chart o f classification and delegation o f powers are used by the
  MinistriesDivisions, whereas the Regulators have their own financial rules andaccounting policies. The
  cash basis o f accounting shall however be adopted for the purposes of reporting to the Bank

  The FMC at the PCU will develop financial management procedures for the project and shall include the
  prescribed formats o f reports required by the Bank.

2. Audit Arrangements




        ImplementingAgency                    Audit /Special Opinion                  Date of Receipt
    FD, ED, P&DD,           NEPRA,      Project Accounts o f Implementing      31December of each year,
    OGRA, PTA                           Agency -Financial Statement            excepting 31December 2004
                                        Audit
    MoF ( FMC)                          Overall Project Accounts               31December o f each year,
                                        (Consolidated) - Special Opinion       excepting 31December 2004




                                                     - 70 -

Reporting andMonitoring
 FinancialMonitoringReports(FMRs): The FMRrequirement would include financial statements,
 physical progress reports and procurement reports for project monitoring.          Each Implementing
 agency holding a Special Account shall prepare quarterly reports for separate delivery to the Bank.
 A copy o f such quarterly reports should also be made available to the PCU who will consolidate the
 information from all implementing agencies and submit the consolidated report on the project to the
 Bank within 45 days aRer the end o f each quarter. In essence the following shall constitute the
 quarterly FMRreports to be submittedto the Bank:

  1. Sources and Uses o fFundsby Components
 2. Uses o f funds by Component and Project Activity
 3. Output MonitoringReport (linkingfinancial and physical progress)

 Information System: The project shall maintain books o f accounts using manual systems and on
 the cash basis. Excel spreadsheets shall be used for FMR reporting. In respect of the Regulatory
 Institutions serving as implementing agencies, their mainstream accounting processes shall be used,
 except that the specific reporting requirements o f the project shall be met as a by-product o f those
 processes.

 Agreed Action Plan
          I                      Agreed Action                 DivisiodAgency             Completion
              No*    I                                                                      Deadline
                 1.    Financial Management               Finance Division(AS         I31March2004      I
                       Coordinator (FMC) at PCU           Fin.)
                       to be selected and Bank
                       notified.
                2. QualifiedAccounting staff to           Finance, Establishment        20 March 2004
                      be            identifiedfor each Division, Planning &
                      ofthe                               Develop. Division,
                       ImplementingAgencies               NEPRA. OGRA. PTA
                 3.    Settingup of accounting
                       procedures for the Project
                4.     Training to be providedto all
                       the accounting staff and
                       Coordinators                                                   I                  I



  1.        The Federal Government shall ensure that all project implementing agenciesmaintain, for
  the duration o f the project, a comprehensive financial management system managed by suitable staff
  with qualification and experience satisfactory to the IDA;
  2.        The Federal Government shall ensure that only qualifyingparticipating agencies access the
  funds under the Project
  3.        The Federal Govemment shall ensure, through the Project Coordinator, and the project
  Financial Coordinator, that, not later than 31December, each year, excepting 31December 2004,
  audited accounts o f each o f the six project implementing agencies as well as audited opinion on the



                                                 - 71 -

      consolidatedaudited accounts, bothfor each fiscal year, are submitted to the IDA, along with an
      action planto address any audit issues.

      SupervisionPlan
      Except for the first supervision period during which more intensive supervision shall be conducted to
      ensure compliance with the proposed systems andstaffingimprovement as outline inthis assessment,
      the Bank's normal supervision procedures will suffice.

3. DisbursementArrangements

      The proposed Credit amount of USD 55 million is expected to be disbursed over a period o f five
      years and would cover about 90% of the project cost. The withdrawals from the IDA Credit would
      be under traditional transaction based disbursementsystems.

      The allocation of the Credit proceeds by disbursement category and percentage to be financed are
      show inthe table below. 100%withdrawals, where applicable, would be net o f taxes and duties:


Allocation of credit proceeds(Table C) '

      ExpenditureCategory
 1) Expenditures inrespecto f
rofessional development
.omponent:
   (a) Civil Works                                   2.8               I               90%
    (b) Goods                                       0.74                  100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                                           100%of local expenditures
                                                                              (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                        80% o f local expenditures for othei
                                                                             items procuredlocally
    (c) Consultants' Services                        1.33                    98% o f expenditures for
                                                                         consultants domiciled within the
                                                                             Borrower's territory and
                                                                          88% o f expenditures for other

    (d) Scholarships/Training                      16.17                               100%
    (e) Incremental Aministrative                   0.02                    80% for FY04 andFY05;
   and Operating Costs                                                    60% for FY06 and FY07; and
                                                                                  40% thereafter
2) Expenditures inrespect o f
3conomic Policy Makingand
danagement Capacity
    (a) Civil Works
   (b) Goods
                                                                            100%o f localexpenditures
                                                                               (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                        80% o f local expenditures for othe
                                                                             items procuredlocally


                                                   - 72 -

   (c) Consultants' Services                     5.64                     98% o f expenditures for
                                                                       consultants domiciled withinthe
                                                                          Borrower's territory and
                                                                        88% o f expenditures for other
                                                                                 consultants
   (d) Scholarships/Training                     6.73                               100%
   (e) IncrementalAdministrative                 0.89                    80% for FY04 andFY05;
   and Operating Costs                                                 60% for FY06 and FY07; and
                                                                               40% thereafter
3) Expenditures inrespect o f
Legulatory Capacity
   (a) Goods                                     0.02                   100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                                         100%of local expenditures
                                                                            (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                     ,80%of localexpenditures for othei
                                                                           items procured locally
   (b) Consultants' Services                     3.11                      98% o f expenditures for



                                                                                 consultants
   (c) Scholarships/Training                     2.15                               100%
4) Unallocated                                    9.9
'otal BankFinancing                              55.00
:otal Project Costs with Bank                    61.00
Financing




Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
   Withdrawals (Documented and under Statement of Expenditures); Disbursement would be fully
   documented except for those expenditures: (a) under contracts not exceeding the equivalent o f (i)
                                                                                                    US$
   200,000 for works; (ii) US$25,000 each for goods; (ii) 100,000 for services for consulting f m s ;
                                                          US$
   (iii) 50,000forservicesofindividualconsultants;(iv)scholarshipsnotexceedingUS$20,000; (v)
        US$
   training and (vi) incremental operating costs o f PCU.    Such disbursement would be made against
   Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs), the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but
   retained by the respective accounts maintaining DivisiodAgency andmade available during the course
   o f project supervision.

Special account:
   To facilitate disbursement, six Special Accounts would be established for Establishment Division
   (Professional Development, NSPP and FPSC), Finance Division           (Finance Wings and all other
   agencies) Planning & Development Division, and the three Regulators (NEPRA, OGRA and PTA) in
   the National Bank o f Pakistan on the terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Special Accounts
   would be opened and maintained by PIUs and would be used for payments for all the eligible foreign
   and local expenditures. The Special Accounts would be replenished on a monthly basis or whenever
   20% o f the account has been utilized, whichever occurs first. The Special Accounts, having following



                                                 - 73 -

authorized allocations for advances, would be used for IDA'S share of financing of project
expenditures (equivalentto requirement for about 4 months estimated expenditures):

           EstablishmentDivision :            USD2.00 million
           Finance Division                   USD 1.OO million
           P&DD                              USD0.30 million
           OGRA                               USD0.10 million
           NEPRA                              USD0.14 million
           PTA                                USD0.10 million

RetroactiveFinance: Retroactivefinancingupto an amount of USD 5 millionwould cover eligible
expenditrures for Project activities after August 31,2003.




                                               - 74 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
        PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




1 Appraisalmission departure                 I        11/07/2003               I         11/17/2003    I
  Negotiations                                        02/23/2004                         0212ma4
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                       O1/3012004

Preparedby:
GOP andIndividualMinistriedAgencies


Preparationassistance:
GOP's own resources

Bank staff who worked on the projecl included:
          Name                                        Speciality
Fsya Akhlaque, Task team leader       PSD Specialist (Institutional/Industrial Economist)
  Shabana Khawar, Co-task-leader      Operations (Finance)
 Nick Manning                         Public sector specialist
  HanidMukhtar                        Macroeconomics, Finance, Planning
  Zareen Naqvi                        Trade andpublic economics
  Rashid Aziz                         Eneregy Specialist; regulatoly issues
  Waqar Haider                        Oil & gas; regulation; PSD specialist
  Mudassir Khan                       Finance specialist
  Ahsan Ali                           Procurement specialist
  Hassan MasoodMirza                  Procurement specialist
  Ismaila Ceesay                      F M specialist
  Riaz Mahmud                         F M specialist
  Akhtar Hamid                        Legal
  A. H.Qureshi                        Telecom specialist, consultant
  Tanq Husain                         Civil service specialist, consultant
  Ambreen Malik                       consultant
  Zia A1Jalalay                       Social Development specialist
  FarahImran                          Team assistant
I




                                               - 75 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
       PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
1. EstablishmentDivision's Civil Service Reform Agenda
2. Entity ImprovementPlans (EIPs) for each participating agency.

B. Bank Staff Assessments

0   Procurement/ FMassessments   .

C. Other


*Including electronicfiles




                                                - 76 -

                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLICSECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                                               30-Mar-2004
                                                                                                                       Dierence betweenexpected
                                                                                                                               and actual
                                                                    Oriainal Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF   Cancel. Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO10556     2004 HIGHWAYS REHAB                                   50.00      150.00                 0.00   0.00  205.61       -0.52      0.00
PO82977     2004 Second PovertyAlleviation Fund Project            0.00      238.00                 0.00   0.00  246.19       13.72      0.00
PO83228     2004 Punjab Education Reform Program                   0.00      100,oo                 0.00   0.00  103.89       0.00       0.00
PO71454     2003 AJK Community Infrastructure8 Services            0.00       20.00                 0.00   0.00   21.15       4.67       0.00
PO74797     2003 Banking Sector TechnicalAssistance                0.00      26.50                  0.00   0.00   26.85       13.38      0.00
P074856     2003 HIV/AIDS PreventionProject                        0.00       27.83                 0.00   0.00   39.94       6.48       0.00
PO81909     2003 Partnership for Polio Eradication                 0.00       20.00                 0.00   0.00     0.90      -1.29      0.00
P077288     2003 National EducationAssessment System               0.00        3.63                 0.00   0.00     3.86      0.11       0.00
PO55292     2002 BSRPP                                             0.00      300.00                 0.00   0.00  111.37     -204.62      0.00
PO71092     2001 NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENTf'ROJECT            0.00       21.35                  0.00   0.00   21.80       -2.44      0.00
PO56213     2001 TRADE &TRANSPORT                                  0.00        3.00                 0.00   0.00     0.95      0.57       0.00
P035823     2001 GEF-Protected Areas ManagementProject             0.00        0.00                10.06   0.00   10.96        1.04      0.00
PO49791     1999 POVERTYALLEVIATIONFUND                            0.00       90.00                 0.00   0.00   13.00      -23.54      0.00
PO10500     1998 NATIONALDRAINAGEPR                                0.00      285.00                 0.00   0.24   82.90       65.07     25.18
PO36015     1997 IMPR FIN REP 8 AUDIT                              0.00       26.80                 0.00   0.00   15.28       15.45     10.24

                                                        Total:   50.00    1314.11                10.08     0.24   904.66     -91.92      35.42




                                                                  - 77 -

                                            PAKISTAN
                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                           Feb29 - 2004
                                         InMillions US Dollars


                                                          Committed                       Disbursed
                                                        IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1995              ABN AMRO PAK                   15.00     0.00     0.00    0.00  15.00   0.00           0.00
1996              AES La1Pir                     23.73     9.50     0.00    0.00  23.73   9.50    0.00   0.00
1995              AES Pak Gen                    13.46     9.50     0.00   18.78  13.46   9.50    0.00   18.78
1991              Abamco Mgmt                     0.00     0.29     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.29    0.00   0.00
1995104           AskariBank                      6.00     0.00     0.00    0.00  6.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1993              BRRIL                           0.00     0.24     0.00    0.00  0.00    0.24    0.00   0.00
1993197101        BRRIM                           0.00     0.76     0.00    0.00  0.00    0.76    0.00   0.00
2003              BSJSFund                        0.00     0.60     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.60    0.00   0.00
1991              CDCPL                           0.00     0.16     0.00    0.00  0.00    0.16    0.00   0.00
1996              CrescentBahuman                 7.50     0.00     0.00    1.50   7.40   0.00    0.00    1.50
2001              DewanSalman                    30.00     1.oo     4.00    0.00  30.00   0.00    4.00   0.00
1990192196        EngroChemical                   0.00     3.90     0.00    0.00   0.00   3.90     0.00   0.00
2002              EngroVopak                      4.23     0.00     0.00    2.32   4.23   0.00     0.00   2.32
1995              EniPakistan                    27.00     0.00     0.00    0.00  27.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996              FIIB                            0.77     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.77   0.00     0.00   0.00
2003              FaujiCement                    15.59     0.00     0.00    0.00  15.19   0.00     0.00   0.00
1995              FirstUDL                        0.00     0.00     6.67    0.00   0.00   0.00     6.67   0.00
1994/97/00        GulAhmed                       14.85     4.10     0.00   14.84  14.85   4.10     0.00  14.84
2002              KCT                             7.75     0.00      1.50   0.00   7.75   0.00     1.50   0.00
2002              Kohinoor                       12.50     6.30     0.00   12.20  12.50   6.30     0.00  12.20
1994              MapleLeaf                      11.72     0.00     0.00    0.00  11.60   0.00     0.00   0.00
1994              MetropolitanBnk                 3.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   3.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1983102           Micro Bank                      0.00     2.71     0.00    0.00   0.00   2.71     0.00   0.00
1965187191/94/95  NetworkLeasing                  2.03     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1994              Orix Finance                    0.00     0.58     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.58     0.00   0.00
2001              PI&CL                           0.3 1    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.3 1  0.00     0.00   0.00
1996              PPL                             0.00     6.63     0.00    0.00   0.00   6.63     0.00   0.00
                  Packages                        0.00     0.26     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.26     0.00   0.00
                  Regent Knitwear                 8.66     0.00     0.00    2.80   8.66   0.00     0.00   2.80
                  SarahTextiles                   1.60     0.00     0.00    0.00   1.60   0.00     0.00   0.00
                  Sonen Bank                      3.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   3.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
                  UchPower                       54.05     0.00     0.00   59.18  43.96   0.00     0.00  44.14
                  UnionBank - PAK                 2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   2.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
                        Total Portfolio:        264.75    46.53     12.17  111.62 252.01  45.53    12.17 96.58



                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval      Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi   Partic


                 Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00




                                                - 78 -

                                              Annex IO: Country at a Glance
            PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South     Low-
                                                       Pakistan   Asia   income    3eveiopmentdiamond*
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                           148.4    1,401    2,495                Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         470     460      430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           69.2    640     1,072

Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                         T
PopulationI%)                                               2.4     1.8      1.9
Laborforce (%)                                              3.2     2.3      2.3   3NI                                Gross
                                                                                   Jer                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                              :apita                         enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertvline)              33
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                       34      28       30
Life expectancyat birth(years)                               64      63       59                       i

Infantmortality (per 7,000 live births)                      84      71       ai
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                                                 Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulationf            90      84       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                          54      44       37
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulationl            74      97       95         -Pakistan
    Male                                                     93     108      103                 Low-income amup
    Female                                                   54      89       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983    1993    2002      2003    Economicratios.
GDP (US$billions)                                  28.7    51.7    59.2     68.8
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                       18.8    20.8    14.7     15.5
Exports of goodsand servicedGDP                    11.9    16.3    18.7     20.5                     Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                           7.7    14.7    14.4     15.6
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                          17.0    20.6    22.8     29.9                       T
Currentaccountbaiance/GDP                          -0.6    -6.4     2.7      6.1
interest paymentslGDP(onexternaldebt)               1.1     1.4     1.7      0.9
Totalexternal debffGDP                             41.9    45.8    55.3     47.4
Total debt servicelexports                         20.9    30.8    32.2     25.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                           42.6     38.4
Presentvalue of debffexpotts                                      228.5    193.3                  indebtedness
                                       1983-93 1993-03    2002    2003   2003-07
(average annualgrowth)                                                                    -       Pakistan
GDP                                       5.8       3.4     2.8     5.8       5.6
GDP oer caoita                            3.1       0.9     0.4     3.3       3.1                  Low-lncome group
                                                                                             ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1983    1993   2002      2003    Growthof investmentand GDP ("h)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        30.3    25.0     23.2     23.3   2o T
Industry                                           22.1    24.7     23.3     23.5
    Manufacturing                                  15.3    16.7     16.1     16.4
Services                                           47.7    50.3     53.5     53.2

Privateconsumption                                 80.8    72.2     74.4     72.7
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       11.4    13.1     11.3     11.7  1-21-       -GDI           +GDP
importsof goods and services                       23.0    22.4     19.0     20.4

                                                1983-93 1993-03    2002     2003    Growthof exportsand imports (Oh)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                      I
Agriculture                                         4.4      3.5    -0.1      4.1
industry                                            7.1      3.6     5.4      5.4   30

    Manufacturing                                   6.6      4.1     5.0      7.7   20
Services                                            5.7      4.1     4.1      5.3   10

Privateconsumption                                  4.3      3.5     1.4     -0.6    0

Generalgovernmentconsumption                        6.6      1.3    13.5     10.4  -10
Grossdomesticinvestment                             4.9      0.7    -3.0     10.5
importsof goods and sewices                         3.2      0.0     4.5     13.9

                                                                                                          Pakistan

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                    9.8     2.7     3.1
implicit GDP deflator                      5.3    8.7     3.1     4.6

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Currentrevenue                                   18.1   19.5    20.8
Currentbudgetbalance                             -2.4     0.2    -0.4          -GDP       deflator  -CPI
OverallSurDlusldeficit                           -8.1    -4.4    -1.7                                                 I
TRADE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                           Exportand Import levels(US$mlll.)            I
Total exports(fob)                      2,694  6,782   9,140  10,889
 conon                                            271      18     49
 Rice                                             317    448     555
 Manufactures                           1,881  3,723   5,368   6,653    10,000

Total imports(cif)                             10,049  9,432  11,333
 Food                                           1,290    413     587     5,000
 Fueland energy                                 1,578  2,864   3,098    I                                             I
 Capitalgoods                                  3,409   2,594   3,392        0

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                        88     80      89           97   98    99    w     01    02

Importpriceindex(1995=100)                         96     90      101                  Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          92     89      88                                               O3



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                           Current accountbalanceto GDP ("A)            I
Exportsof goods and services            3,420   8,339  11,056 13,686
Importsof goods and services            6,593  12,856  11,646 14,047    1"T
Resource balance                        -3,173 -4,517   -590    -361

Net income                               -421  -1,498  -2,319  -2,210
Net currenttransfers                    3,416   2,688  4,500   6,775
Currentaccountbalance                    -178  -3,326   1,591  4,204

Financingitems (net)                            2,682   1,685   1,475
Changesin net reserves                            644  -3,276  -5,679

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)    2,758   1,369  4,997    9,630
Conversionrate @C, local/US$J             12.7   25.8   61.3     58.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                            Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debtoutstandinganddisbursed       12,026 23,712  32,769 32,608
  IBRD                                     351  2,557   2,943   2,813
  IDA                                    1,145  2,585   5,097   5,604

Total debt service                       1,343  2,383   3,755   3,621
  IBRD                                     63     325     367     367
  IDA                                       14     43     101     122
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                            0       0       0       0
  Officialcreditors                       350   1,011     758
  Privatecreditors                         -87    710   -389
  Foreigndirectinvestment                  28     306     368     612
  Portfolioequity                           0     270   -491     -394

World Bank program
  Commitments                             255     429     800     297    A. IBRD                        E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                            144    537     869     356    B IDA
                                                                           -       D Othermultilateral   -
                                                                                     ~                  F Private
  Principalrepayments                      34     166     310     335    C IMF
                                                                           -                            G-Short-term
  Netflows                                 110    371     559      21
  Interestpayments                         42     202     159     154
  Net transfers                            88     168    400     -134

Development tconomics                                                                                            4/1/04




                                                     - 80 -

                                                          Additional Annex 11:DetailedCost Table
                              PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN- PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                 Participating Agency-ComponentICategory Wise Allocations (US Dollar Millions)
                                  -
                                  ----- - - -
                                   Total     Economic Policy Makingand Man1        nent Capacity                             'rofessional Dev.           Regulatory Capa   Y
                                  ~Uocatioi    FD       CSRU      CBR     MOC       EAD       PPRA       P&DD      Total     EDlNSPP       FPSC    Total YEPRA OGRA         PTA




 Economic Policy Making
&ManagementCapacity
(I)CivilWorks                        2.48                           2.48                                              2.48
(2) Goods                            3.02       0.35      0.06      1.52    0.25      0.19      0.15       0.50       3.02
(3) Consultants'services             5.64       1.47      1.50      0.42    0.75      0.30                 1.20       5.64
    a. Institutional Development     4.16       1.39      0.60      0.42    0.30      0.30        --       1.15       4.16
                       b. Studies     1.48      0.08      0.90              0.45                           0.05       1.48
(4) ScholarhsipsiTraining            6.73       0.73      0.18      1.oo    0.80      0.42       0.80      2.80       6.73
(5) Incremental Operating Cost    -- 0.89       0.47                                                     --0.42       0.89
     Sub-total:                   --18.76       3.02                                  0.91       0.95    -- -
                                                                                                           4.92      18.76


ProfessionalDevelopment
(1) Civil Works                      2.80                                                                                         2.80              2.80
(2) Goods                            0.74                                                                                         0.31        0.43  0.74

(3) Consultants'services              1.33                                                                                        1.05        0.28  1.33
    a. Institutional Development      1.33                                                                                         1.05       0.28  1.33
                       b. Studies
(4) Scholarhsipflraining          -- 16.17                                                                                       16.00        0.17  16.17

(5) Incremental Operating Cost        0.02                                                               --- - -                  0.02              0.02
     Sub-total:                   --21.06                                                                ----- -                 20.18        0.88 21.06


Regulatory Capacity
(1) Goods                             0.02                                                                                                                 0.02       ~            0.0
(2) Consultants'services              3.11                                                                                                                 0.77      135     0.9s  3.1
    a. Institutional Development      1.68                                                                                                                 0.67      0.2(    0.81  1.6
                       b. Studies -   1.43                                                                                                                 0.10      1.1:    0.18  1.4

(3) ScholarhsipsiTraining             2.15                                                                                                                  1.13     0.54  --0.5;  2.1
     Sub-total:                   -   5.28                                                                         - - --                                   1.92     1.8:    1.51  5.2
                                                                                                                   - -- --
Unallocated:                          9.90
GoP Share                         -   6.00                                                                         - - --
   Total:                         - 61.00                                             0.91       0.95                 18.47                   0.88  21.oc   1.92     l.8!    1.51  5.2



Note: The participating agencieswould be meetingtheir logisticalcosts and taxes (where IDA financesat 100%) from about 10% GOP's share of financing for the project.
Logisticalcosts include all olfce operating costs, salariesof any standeputed to the project, all local travel costs includingtraining.
The incremental administrative and operating costs indicatedunder para 2(e) of Schedule 1 to DCA are meant for PCU at FD,P M U at P C and ED.




                                                                                             -81     -


MAP SECTION


